ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e63	In order to participate in the Barents Conference under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Russia, an application has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives, Thore A. Nistad, on 28 and 29 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is called to meet during the leave period. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e85	Morten Ørsal Johansen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e90	I am pleased to promote a proposal by the representatives of Laila Davøy, Dagrun Eriksen, Hans Olav Syversen and myself to increase the one-time benefit at birth and adoption from about 0.5 G to 2 G to facilitate more births. [[approx. NOK 35000]] [[approx. DKr 140 000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e95	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e109	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e118	Initially, as rapporteur of the case, I would like to give tribute to the Committee for the work on the big news ‘A happy event’. Significant improvements have been made to the Government’s proposals. We know that a good and safe experience through pregnancy, birth and maternity is essential to ensure good health for mother and children, the family's well-being and mastery, and thus a good start to family life. The incidence of complications, injuries and deaths is very low in Norway compared with many other countries. Despite this, there are several possibilities for improvement in several areas. The problems associated with summer-related maternity wards, undercapacity and overfilling of maternity wards, near-accident reports, an increase in aberrations and shortages of midwifery both in the maternity wards and in the municipal health service have been addressed several times in the Stortinge over the last three years, without any significant improvement. It is necessary to draw up long-term plans in cooperation between health enterprises and municipalities in order to ensure a good and comprehensive offer through pregnancy, childbirth and maternity, which also ensure the availability and proper provision of holidays and festivals. The Storting Communication indicates that the midwife service in the municipalities is deficient and geographically disparate. Small job vacancies are a major challenge in smaller municipalities, resulting in poor accessibility, limited opportunities for professional development and difficult working conditions for midwives. The Committee therefore considers that there is a need to strengthen maternity care, and in particular midwifery services. The government outlines two models for the organisation of the local midwife service, municipal or state responsibility, but will defer the decision to the presentation of the announced cooperation reform. I am therefore very pleased that the government parties in Stortinget, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, support the Right's proposal that the organisation of the local midwife service should be taken into consideration now, and that it must remain, and as a general rule, a municipal responsibility. A municipal responsibility will be the most appropriate management model to ensure the proximity and accessibility of the provision of users across the country. The continuation of municipal responsibility better facilitates local adaptation of the offer to ensure continuity of follow-up over time before and during pregnancy, maternity and childbirth and child growth. It also facilitates interdisciplinary cooperation between municipal services and is in line with our desire to strengthen primary health services in general. Although, as a general rule, the local midwife service is to be a municipal responsibility, agreements can be made for different forms of responsibilities across municipalities and health enterprises. Cooperation could improve accessibility and, above all, improve quality. The Committee stresses that the agreements must ensure clear responsibilities and orderly working conditions for midwives. There is a broad consensus that midwifery needs to be strengthened and plans need to be drawn up to ensure increased recruitment of midwives, and the Committee therefore calls on the Government to propose measures to strengthen midwifery both in terms of capacity and quality. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, supports the Government’s proposal to transfer responsibility for accompanying services to regional health establishments and the coordination of accompanying services with other health services, including the ambulance service. The majority of the Committee, all except the governmental parties, therefore propose the introduction of an individual right to follow-up service for pregnant women who have more than one hour of travel to the place of birth, if the pregnant woman so wishes. The Government Parties consider that there is a need for the accompanying service to be assessed on a case-by-case basis and do not support the proposal for a separate legal provision on an individual right to follow-up service. It does not create the necessary safety and soundness. The government parties believe that the need should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and I ask: by whom? Is not the woman herself the best assessor, and not those in maternity wards 10 to 15 miles away or an ambulance driver or a taxi driver or a doctor who does not have experience in childbirth care? Especially the Center Party believes that I'm completely untrustworthy of creating safe and predictable conditions for women in the districts. But it's not too late to turn around, it's just to vote for the opposition proposal. In 2001, the Stortinget adopted a decentralised and differentiated maternity care. The National Council for Paternity Care was established in 2002 to contribute to the implementation of the Decision of the Grand Duchy. However, the Council resigned in November 2007, having regard to a long and difficult dialogue with the Ministry of Health on the implementation of the Storting Decision. The Council’s final report of 13 February 2008 is a strong reading. The state health surveillance found the content of the final report to be so worrying that they decided to review their surveillance experience in birth care from 2004 to 2008. Health surveillance points out in its supervisory report, annexed to the notification, several factors that pose a high risk to patient treatment. The Committee considers it unacceptable that economically motivated changes in the supply of food have been made in some food departments, leading to a lower supply for birth. Summer - bound maternity wards lead to long travel distances and unsafe conditions for many women in the districts, and the problem is reinforced by the fact that accompanying services are not well developed and that they are not ready for the midwife. The majority of the Committee, all except government parties, asks the Government to oblige regional health establishments to ensure that food supply remains open as far as possible during summer and holidays. If it is not possible to ensure proper operation, health undertakings must ensure, in cooperation with the municipalities, a proper accompanying service with a doctor or a midwife. The Committee supports the Government’s proposal to maintain the three-level division of food institutions and to replace the current figures by national quality requirements for food institutions. Such quality requirements must include, inter alia: are competence requirements for employees, rotational and hospitation arrangements, training courses and training in emergency situations, as well as guidelines for pregnant women who should be born at the individual feeding units. In addition, it must be a central quality requirement to ensure the stability of professional environments and sound watch systems for gynaecologists in the small food departments. The Committee asks the Government to draw up national guidelines to ensure that women in active birth have a qualified maternity care provider at their request, in order to ensure the safety of the woman and to reduce the risk of complications. There is a broad consensus that the necessary follow-up of mother and child should take place during the first days after returning from the maternity ward by means of good cooperation between the food institutions and the community health services. Although the local midwife service should remain locally anchored, the specialist health service may be responsible for mother and child for five days, as an indicative limit after returning from the maternity ward. In any case, there must be a system in which women can contact the maternity and maternity services for advice, for example. in case of problems with breast-feeding or other problems arising outside the office hours of the health centre. There are still significant challenges in ensuring good quality at all stages of maternity care and a more systematic and continuous quality work needs to be established. Competence training requirements, hospitation schemes and skills development must be set. Good basic staffing at the food departments, good competence and continuity are essential to ensure the quality of supply, as well as stable and robust professional environments. New quality indicators need to be developed and they need to be published and made available to users, health professionals and authorities. Medical birth registers must be a tool for the quality development of the food supply. It requires that the activities of the register be strengthened so that data can be made available more quickly and that they be made available also at the level of the institution so that they can provide a basis for concrete improvement measures at the level of each food institution. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are satisfied with the emphasis on user involvement in the development of healthcare. It is a strength for users with relevant competences to be involved in the preparation of regional plans for continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care and in the preparation of national guidelines. Now the most difficult thing is to implement the Storting decision. It is now the responsibility of the Government! I take up proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e164	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e167	Today we are dealing with the message ‘A happy event’, and it is a positive message with a positive focus on birth and the offer given to them. First, I want to commend the case rapporteur, who has done a very good job for the committee, and who has contributed to the fact that there is an almost collective committee in terms of pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth. These are shades, and these are proposals that we do not agree on – the opposition has its proposals of course – but the main lines are very much in agreement. A joyous event shall just be the one to which the message refers. We're going to have a comprehensive pregnancy control, a safe food supply, think of the family as a whole, have good quality at all stages, and not least have the user perspective in what we're doing. In Norway, we have a high quality of maternity care. We have e.g. low incidence of complications and deaths compared to many other countries. But we can get better. We politicians get a lot of input in terms of birth and maternity. These are often about the uncertainty about the offers given, are good enough, or that the offer is too brittle. This applies in particular, as the rapporteur mentioned above, to summer closures. It always creates fear and great commitment, but also the thing about overcrowded maternity wards or lack of midwives is things we hear a lot about. We have noted this in particular with summer closures and believe it is regrettable that the number of children born in months is reduced, i.e. in the summer. Local authorities and health businesses need to cooperate better here. More important than anything is that good agreements are made with the midwife's preparedness if an absolute must close in the summer. We are concerned that everyone should feel safe, but we have highlighted especially women with special needs, such as: women with a minority background. We know that they are a greater risk group than others, both in terms of pregnancy and in terms of birth. In brackets, the Party of Progress will not be involved. They say in their remark that they do not accept that someone is given more priority than others, although they know that there is a need for it, and even if they know that it can prevent later complications. This is a little difficult to understand, because the figures should be clear enough as regards the complications and diseases of some groups of women. There are a few more points where we don't fully agree, among other things. in the case of ultrasound. The working party believes that it is important that an assessment of current rules and practices in the field of ultrasound be reviewed, and we look forward to it. However, we stress that any changes to the current system should be justified on a professional basis, and that requires a separate case. We're clarifying this, because it's not mentioned specifically in the message initially. As the rapporteur said, we will already confirm that the midwife service is still under municipal control. The uncertainty about this occurred in the interaction process, where other links were discussed, and there was a great deal of concern. The Labour Party believes that it is right to calm down on this now, and we therefore choose to say what we want now, even before the interaction reform is presented. I want to highlight this with good communication, which provides security. The government has announced that it will develop an online information portal on the theme in several languages. We ask that this also be done in writing, and made available throughout the country. I also want to mention the interpretation service, which is also important to strengthen, so as to avoid as much confusion as possible in vulnerable situations. The follow-up service is another subject on which we do not fully agree. We Red-Green will not legislate on the right to follow-up service, but we refer to the fact that sick transport is already part of the responsibility for specialist health services. We choose to listen to the National Council for Paternity Care, which recommends 1 to 11⁄2 hours of travel as an indicative limit, depending on communication conditions and the time of birth. There's a difference between where you live in the country, about someone, for example. live in Westfold, with relatively short distances, or in the West, with winding roads and a long way to the birthplace. The message contains an important change in the breakdown of feeding rooms/food departments, etc. So far, we have a measurement indicator that says that the number of births indicates how this should be, which has been the only measure, and it says little about the quality. Now we say that quality is what determines and that national quality requirements are to be developed. We now expect regional health companies to follow this up with good control systems, which include both professional and user organisations. There is a need for good professional competence, for midwives and child nurses, but also for nurses in neonatal medicine, because something can happen to the child even after birth. Special caregivers in neonatal medicine are trained at Lovisenberg, quite a few a year, but we will encourage health companies to use these places even more actively. The need is present and the offer should be ensured for foreseeable operation. We ask the Minister of Health to notice this, and clearly tell them in the mission paper that this happens. I want to mention another education that is not mentioned in the message, but which I also think is very good to bring here. It's the ultrasound training for midwives that takes place at St. Olav's Hospital. There is a lot of good going on in continuing education that we have to take care of. We lack more people who want to work as child nurses, but the challenge is to get young people to apply for health education. That's enough space, but we see that more needs to be done to get the youth to search. It is designed for further education and training, and in this way we hope that more people will be interested. The rapporteur has mentioned several of the points we have made in the comments. But I'll end up saying that a happy event is a big event in the individual's life. A new life must be well taken care of. With the message that has now been presented and that we in the committee have been working on, we have taken action that can make this time better for the born and for the family around. By providing security and competence, we ensure that this time can be experienced as a great event and a happy event for the woman and for the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e205	Putting new life into the world is for most people the biggest event in life, and it's also important that you have security for what's going to happen in months before you have a child. The Progress Party believes that the quality of maternity and maternity care in Norway is very high in the international context, but we also see that there is a great potential for improvement in creating the necessary confidence in the population that the supply is safe enough and that good accessibility is ensured. The Party therefore supports the main content of St.meld. No 12, on general and professional good maternity care that gives rights and options to pregnant and birthing, regardless of where they live in the country, their own economy and ethnic origin, but with the suggestions for additions that we have helped to promote in the case. The Progress Party agrees with the general objectives of health policy in Norway but is sceptical about the ‘rationalisation’ of health services through the funding system and policy priorities in different areas. This also applies to maternity care. It is, as we see it, not only those groups that need the most, who are entitled to health care both in the municipal health and specialist health services, but all those who need health care are entitled to a good and sufficient professional offer without discrimination. This also applies to women with a minority background. The Progress Party therefore sees no reason to clarify that this group should be given neither in maternity care nor in other contexts, but that all should be given the same good professional follow-up in relation to the individual’s needs. The party of progress is strongly critical of summer-related food departments, manning and the closure of food centres based on economics. We believe that needs-to-be plans need to be made based on information on the number of births in the respective regions, and we therefore support the Government's proposal to oblige regional health companies to draw up comprehensive and multi-annual plans for maternity care. The Party considers it important to facilitate the termination of the pre-pregnancy maintenance treatment by LAR users planning pregnancy and, instead, to provide close follow-up to drug-free treatment during pregnancy. We are therefore in favour of the proposal asking the Government to draw up guidelines and support measures as soon as possible to ensure that LAR users planning pregnancy complete the maintenance process and instead offer appropriate support measures to facilitate drug-free and drug-free treatment. The Progress Party believes that good information for pregnant women is important in order to create a safe atmosphere and help women to become aware of the changes and developments that occur through pregnancy and at birth. However, we are sceptical about general and exaggerated information about mental disorders and the possibility of psychological reactions of different kinds that may occur in the context of pregnancy and childbirth. The provision of information on dangerous and frightening conditions, which, after all, only affect a small minority, can help to scare and possibly increase the fear of the individual concerned. However, considerable emphasis needs to be placed on information and careful follow-up of those affected by unexpected and problematic situations related to pregnancy and childbirth. So to the suggestion of early ultrasound. The Progress Party refers to the debate on the right of pregnant women to ultrasound for weeks 11-14 and/or weeks 17-19 respectively, and the debate in the Stortinget in April based on an interpellation by Sonja Irene Sjøli. It was shown, among other things: to Professor Sturla Eik-Nes at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim, who has long claimed that it is possible for weeks 12 to detect serious developmental abnormalities in foetuses that are not detected until week 18. In those cases where such serious deviations are detected, it would be better for all involved that any decision to commit an abortion may be made as early as possible. I would also like to point out that there are opportunities to plan any treatment or organisation for the expected child. Extended ultrasound combined with blood tests, duotests or double tests is offered at several private clinics in Norway to women under 38 years of age if they pay for the test themselves, while women over 38 years of age when birth is expected or who have Down’s syndrome in the family may have the test carried out in public hospitals. Thus, before weeks 17-19, the pregnant woman must pay for ultrasound testing herself in cases where there is no indication that something is wrong. Why should this only be reserved for a few? Today, in fact, most pregnant women do such a study and pay for themselves. So there is no ban on ultrasound testing, but most people pay for it. The progressing party believes that this creates a class distinction between those who know the possibility and have the economy to pay for the study and those who do not have such knowledge and economic ability. Ultrasonic research helps to strengthen the emotional links between father, mother and unborn child and, where appropriate, others in the family. Maybe an awareness early in pregnancy that the fetus really is a child, and not just cells, can lead to fewer totals choosing abortion. I believe it is important to focus on the benefits of ultrasound testing if offered free of charge to all pregnant women from week 11, and that a close follow-up with information is important if something proves to be wrong. Not everyone gets today, as long as it doesn't come under the public offer. Women must be able to choose whether to go to a midwife, to a nurse, to a health centre or to a gynecologist for the control of pregnancy. It is pointed out in the case that measures have been implemented to stimulate municipalities to strengthen the midwifery service, but there is still a challenge with too little capacity in very many municipalities, in fact in most municipalities, so the measures have not worked. There is a gap between the supply and demand for midwife services outside the hospital, and this has led to the establishment of commercial midwife centres in recent years, especially in the larger cities. Such commercial midwives are run with full self-payment by the users, i.e. another example of a classed health care system. It is stated that a two-part anchoring of the midwife service, as we have today, where midwives in the municipalities run maternity care and midwives in the specialist health service assist at birth, do not take advantage of the special competencies of midwives throughout the pregnancy, maternity and maternity course. It should be emphasised that the organisation of midwife services, which improves the overall competence of the midwife, would be better able to provide complete and continuity of service and security to users. So we haven't had an optimal organization today that uses the service for the benefit of those who need it. The Progress Party has chosen to follow the main message of the Council, waiting to decide on the final organisation of the cooperation reform. There has been a lot of talk about that reform. It is regrettable that it takes so long before it is presented, and that such matters as these will be dealt with before you know how to finance and organise healthcare in the future. We therefore believe that it is most appropriate not to commit ourselves to how this model should be. Otherwise, we agree with the rest of the committee that the midwife service must have a different funding from today. But as long as it's not stated what kind of funding it is, we can do nothing but support that statement, and that it will be important to ensure safe and good maternity care. In the case of the accompanying service, we also deviate there. We don't want to put the financial responsibility for it under the health care companies. We have seen that when health companies are given responsibility for transport, the result can be economically motivated cut, and it should not be within that service, so we believe that it should be financed as it is today. I then take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e238	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e241	There is an important message from the Government. The immediate reaction of the Christian People’s Party when the message ‘A Joyful Event’ came was that the Government does not dare to decide on the structure of birthplaces, but delegates it to the regional health establishments. I don't know if it's due to internal discussions in the government, which wouldn't be surprising, because birth care is a lot of opinion, and the theme creates a lot of commitment locally as well. However, there is a need to establish a structure that is appropriate from a geographical and population point of view and which ensures, in particular, good quality of service. Experience suggests that there may be reason to fear that economic considerations can guide the assessments of food structure by regional health businesses and that food supply will vary depending on where you live. Let's just hope this doesn't happen. I am glad that the government in the course of the committee's proceedings has landed on leaving the midwife service in the municipalities still a municipal responsibility. In my opinion, the follow-up of pregnant and newborns should be locally anchored. Something else would be totally wrong, given the close ties of midwives to and cooperation with both permanent doctors and health centres, as many of the hearing bodies also pointed out in the committee hearing. In this hearing we also got a strong insight into situations where a birth is not experienced as a joyous event. Parents who have disabled children may experience shock and grief over this. At Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål, we were told that they have employed their own supervisor for families who experience having a disabled child. This supervisor talks to parents about how they have it and what can be done in the future, and gives good advice on what environments might help the family. The supervisor also helps the municipality to be a better aid when mother and children come home from the hospital, by contacting the municipality before printing. These are offers that should have been created in all hospitals with children's wards, as the Christian People's Party has previously proposed. Similarly, we believe that coordinators should also be established in all municipalities for families with disabled children. This must be done to assist these families in the follow-up of the children. Unfortunately, in this Chamber we also voted for such a proposal in connection with the treatment of the care notification. Finally, a little bit about ultrasound. Despite the definition of foetal diagnostics outside the scope of the notification, the Christian People's Party strongly responds to the proposals of the Advance Party to offer all pregnant ultrasound examinations during weeks 11–13. Because it is well documented, including: through the new and comprehensive report of the knowledge centre, that the main effect of introducing such an offer will be to identify more children with Down syndrome. In Denmark, the introduction of such an offer has dramatically reduced the number of children born to Downs. I think it is naive to think that this will not happen in Norway as well. Such a development does not want the Christian People's Party to be part of. I would like to take up with this the proposal on which the Christian People's Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e258	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e261	It starts with the blue line. For many, it means a tremendous joy, for others, the deepest despair. New life is usually just a happy event. However, comprehensive maternity care needs to be able to address different needs, different life situations. The waiting time is filled with both joy and unrest, but for everyone there will be great upheavals. Having a close, local and safe maternity care is crucial. How a pregnancy goes can be of great importance to the coming world citizen, both good and bad. Having a good local offer around the pregnant woman who knows the local conditions, the Senterpartie looks at it as very important. Different pregnant women will have different needs. Some people want the most support from a regular, others from a midwife. The fact that we're going to have an offer for both parts of the country is important. The Central Party is pleased that the Committee decides that we should continue to have a municipal midwife service, and the Central Party considers it very important that, in future health reforms, we strengthen the local offer that sees the whole human being, both during pregnancy and in subsequent maternity. Safety and proximity are crucial in the provision of food. The Soria Moria formulation that no food and emergency services should be provided came because Norway is a large country with large distances. In this message and in this setting, the importance of closeness is underlined, but at the same time the importance of having a good professional offer. In the case of my home country, Hedmark – a typical county with large distances – we have a feeding room on Tynset where it happens approx. 100 births every year. But in this impact field, there are 60 births in Elverum or Trondheim, because you have a good sort ahead. We in the Centre Party are also very pleased that we are now going to make a quality promise in the follow-up service, that it will be a responsibility for health companies, and that it will be part of the quality system that health businesses have. That we get a uniform system and a clear responsibility in terms of the birth situation, we think we're going to create a security and a more quality good structure than what we have today. Today, parents are probably more alone than before. In the past, there was often a large family around that was supportive. We are therefore very concerned that a good follow-up is essential, and the Committee has, in its position, raised it as one of the common issues addressed – i.e. the time of maternity in the first phase. And then it's also a fact that the hospital lay time is getting shorter and shorter, that you might be sent out after one to two days. The Committee stresses jointly the importance of no mother returning home until there is a satisfactory provision for breast-feeding, possibly feeding with a bottle, and of having a good follow-up on the day of their return to their own home, through the municipal follow-up offer. If the blue line, which some of us have experienced, is going to be a happy event all the way, it's important that we have a good offer the time you go pregnant, that you have a security around the food supply that is given, that you have a good follow-up service when you need it, and that you have a safe and good maternity care that makes those who have special needs get a strong follow-up. This message further points to new improvements in an already good system. The centre party is pleased that we are as united as we are in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e281	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good work on the Committee and for a thorough examination of the matter here today. So to the matter and St.meld. No 12, A happy event. In the left we are pleased that the Storing Message is clarifying in several areas. We are pleased that the message states that the regional leaders will develop multi-annual and locally adapted plans for the provision of food in the region together with the municipalities it is in. We are also pleased that the whole committee is behind this. This will make the offer prudent and secure for all births, not least in the districts. The left is also very pleased that a joint committee stresses that one must ensure a decentralised, differentiated and sustainable supply of food, even in festivals and holidays – which many people have had. In short, the food supply should be year-round. And when we talk about what's presumptuous: Some of the things that are most certain are that summer is coming. He comes every year. Holidays come every year. There's no excuse for anyone that they can't get professionals for these periods in a year. Those who are unable to do so might consider their positions. The left is also pleased that a joint committee clearly states that a non-economically motivated change should lead to poor food supply. The old level divisions associated with the number of births will now be removed. Left's happy. The old figures led to a lot of anxiety and uncertainty among both adding and, not least, the birthing. Substitution of the number limits by quality requirements is the only sensible thing to do. The Storting Communication and a Joint Committee explicitly state that we in this country should have a differentiated food supply ranging from women's clinics to maternity wards, aggravated feeding rooms and regular feeding rooms. When a unified magnification is so clear, it means that everyone is responsible. Not least, health professionals must work actively and targeted to ensure that the Storting will be carried out. With the message's clear driving rules, as I see it, it should be easier than before creating a safe and prudent food supply regime throughout Norway. Otherwise, the message includes maternity care and midwife care. The points of view that a majority in the committee is in favour of when it relates to the midwife, to which the case-speaker was involved, we in the Left are quite a few. Getting a whole-hearted offer from pregnancy to birth, childbirth and the whole chain on is very important. The sum total I mean, and the left, that this big message clears up a lot of important points that have been discussed for a long time. I think it'll be a better arrangement for those who are born and relatives in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e302	I support the position that exists and that of course the government parties are united. What I want to give some consideration to is the quality and content of the food supply, and what determines it. I remember myself when I started on tour in Alta, where there is a feeding room with approx. 150 births a year, it had just been a seat birth that went wrong, and the mother lost the child – the child died. I'm going to think that those parents still think, "If the child had been born in a hospital, could they have saved it?" Everything points to that. I would think that the doctor who was in that situation, since, throughout his career as a doctor, would think through: what was it I did wrong, how could we have prevented this? The same thing I think the midwife will think. In such a situation in a place with relatively few births, one must of course think through it. Was it such that in Alta there were at that time border crossings that were unreasonable, so that that birth should not have happened in Alta at all? Were ultrasonic practices too poor? This is many years ago. You have to have a kind of quality control that doesn't just mean that because birth is close, quality is guaranteed, when there are actually someone who loses life when it happens close. Over the last few years, I've seen headlines in the media in Finnmark, two of them especially related to the Church Hospital. It was a suggestion that during a birth the foetal sound disappeared – there was uncertainty about the reason for it, and so did Mother. As a result, the Church Hospital experienced a situation where both mother and children died. This was just two years ago. Then you get a headline in South Varanger Avis saying that this must not lead to a debate on the food supply at the Church Hospital. Then it goes one year, and then one loses at the Church Hospital a child who was to be taken with Caesar's cut, because substitute gynecologist probably didn't have competence at Caesar's cut, and thus managed the event by going and taking lunch instead. It is clear that if you get a discussion on such matters as whether it is a non-problem, we are on a very dangerous line. We have to, as decision-makers, have an overview of that kind of event. We need to have insight into the assessments the State Health Authority is making, which means that when it comes to it, we can say: this quality is too poor. You simply cannot continue this food supply as it is today – we have to close it down. You cannot create debates where you make it as if any offer in Norway today is good enough, because it is not. We've had discussions about very small food departments, where you make it like you're ensuring the quality of the pregnant person by continuing those departments. That's not right. Many of these food supplies have had a high quality of content, and it was quite correct, as pointed out in the emergency notice already in 2001, that those offers should not have been continued. Then there are reactions in the population – one cannot expect the population to have a professional insight into this type of quality – which is supported, misunderstood, by politicians, and which leads to the continuation of a number of offers that should not have been continued. Therefore, the discussion on the provision of food is important. Drunken Battle Force Vedum pulled out the Tynset. He mentioned the nursery there, which I have also been looking at, and which I think is of very high quality. But what you should also stress is that what was before on Tynset was not a maternity ward, but a maternity ward. When you talk to those who work there, they say that it was absolutely right to wind up the maternity ward at Tynset, because you couldn't produce the quality you need in a maternity ward, and that also means you should have the preparation of gynecologists, anesthesiologists and other staff to take the Caesarean section. That's why you take it into account on Tynset and try to prevent situations where it can happen. Therefore, in view of some places where there are birth wards today, you should also say that it is not right that we should continue to have a maternity ward. That should be another offer. It should be a feeding room, so that we can be sure of events like those I have described at the Church Hospital, where you can simply risk your life if you give birth there. Such discussions have to go into. So you could say, by strengthening that offer, by ensuring that you have temporary work arrangements, by ensuring cooperation with large departments, you might be able to maintain quality. But if we don't dare to be clear about it, we might wonder about parts of the population to participate in an offer that is today too high quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e315	I want to start by thanking the Health and Care Committee for a very well-worked and important attitude. In my opinion, it is such that a good message has been supplemented with a good setting. As a result, maternity care in Norway is likely to improve. The government's goal in the announcement is that pregnant, birthing and family members should experience a comprehensive and coherent maternity, maternity and maternity care – that is, that it will be a happy event for the family. They are responsible for the service – the regional health companies and municipalities – which are responsible for the whole of the offer. It means a health service of high professional quality, an overall and safe maternity and maternity experience and a family-friendly maternity care. This approach fully supports this objective, although there are minor political differences in the view of some of the proposals we have in order to achieve the objective. I am very pleased that a Joint Committee supports the Government's proposal that regional health companies, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, be required to draw up a multi-annual, comprehensive and locally adapted plan for the provision of food in the region. The plan shall also cover maternity and maternity care, in order to ensure that pregnant and pregnant persons are provided with a coherent health service of high professional quality. I think this is one of the most important things that we now agree on. For a long time, there has been more a game between different interests compared to a comprehensive supply of food in Norway. The fact that we are now forcing municipalities, health companies and trade unions to sit together and create a multi-annual, comprehensive plan, I think is a very important contribution to the further work of strengthening maternity care. I share the Committee’s views, that there is a need to strengthen municipal health and care services – both to ensure better provision for patients and to improve the use of resources in healthcare. I am aware that a waiter with a longing for the big message about the interaction reform, as we presented in June. There, we will hardly go in there and look at how, overall, we will strengthen health and care services – both in order to be able to better meet pregnant women and to address the whole of the challenges facing Health-Norway. St.meld. No 12 highlighted the central role of the midwife in comprehensive maternity, maternity and maternity care. But it did not take a stand for future models of the organisation of midwifery. Most midwives are employed in the specialist health service, while a smaller proportion are employed in the municipalities. A majority of the committee believes that the midwife service in the municipalities must, as a general rule, be a municipal responsibility. This will be the most appropriate management model to ensure the proximity and accessibility of the supply of users across the country. After that St.meld. No 12 was presented, we in the department have come further in the work on the previously mentioned interaction reform. I therefore conclude that I share the Committee's assessment of this issue. The government emphasises the need for local authorities to cooperate on services where necessary. This is an important premise in assessing which tasks can and should be added to municipalities. This also applies to the local midwife service. Continued municipal anchoring will underpin municipal responsibility for a comprehensive follow-up of mother and children, including the midwife service. Municipalities should facilitate the central role of local midwives in the provision of maternity care, in cooperation with health establishments, health centres and permanent staff. In order to maximise the use of the midwifery resources and to ensure equivalent access to midwifery, smaller municipalities should engage in inter-municipal cooperation. If healthcare companies and municipalities agree on a joint midwife service, we have a good starting point for improved accessibility and a more coherent service. The agreements should include measures to ensure that midwives can take advantage of their overall competence in maternity, maternity and maternity care. Paternity care competence is of particular importance in areas with long-distance travel to a food establishment, and the agreements must include preparedness for follow-up service. Furthermore, agreements must ensure that local midwives are given a central role in the follow-up of mother and children at home in the first days after birth. This must be done in cooperation with the health centre and the permanent staff. Several health enterprises and municipalities have already concluded cooperation agreements on maternity care. In order to ensure access to midwife services, the new agreements should allow for the continuation of such arrangements, if both parties consider it appropriate, in order to achieve the Government’s objective of a coherent service. I would also like to say at this stage of the debate that it is now very important that we continue to work on professional guidelines on what is required of food institutions at different levels. I am very pleased that we have agreed to replace the desire for many maternity wards with a desire to establish professional criteria. I think it is very important, in the light of the contributions made by Mr Ballos, that we think thoroughly about the requirements for professional qualifications that have to be placed on food institutions at different levels. If we manage to link good, professional guidelines with good processes locally on a multi-annual and comprehensive plan related to the birth offer – and a local respect for the professional guidelines – I think it can form the basis for a good and sensible structure for the entire birth offer in the years to come. That is why I take with me the impatience in the work on these guidelines. For this big message, there has at least been a long period of time until birth, so we'll see that the work on these guidelines does not go into a corresponding long pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e344	Most pregnant people get the first meeting with the child when they go to ultrasound testing, and most people today choose to pay for such a study early in pregnancy, already around week 12. For these this is a great joy, and they also attach much closer to the unborn child. It's important for many to know what the situation is with the child they're waiting for. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal asking ‘The Government proposes to make a public offer for ultrasonic testing to pregnant women in 11–13. a week of pregnancy’;» As far as I am aware, the Labour Party decided at its national meeting that this should be introduced. The question then is: will the Labour Party vote in favour of this proposal today, when it is presented in the context of the pregnancy notification, as this concerns an important part of maternity care?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e351	How the Labour Party will vote here in the Chamber must the representative almost ask the Labour Party representatives in the Chamber about. For my part, as a minister, I would like to say about the government's policy: it has been five years since the implementation of important parts of the biotechnology law. During the work on this law, we also had provisions related to foetal diagnostics. When we made the law, there was a broad consensus here in the house that we would evaluate the law wide after five years. Then, on the basis of the knowledge that the evaluation gave us, we would decide whether to proceed with existing law, or whether to renew, modernise or change it in some areas. I feel strongly obliged to that arrangement. The budget for this year is earmarked for such an evaluation, and it will start this year. This is my answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e358	The right is concerned that pregnant women receive the best possible health care where they live. We believe, like the Council of State, that the interaction reform must lead primarily to the strengthening of municipal health and care services and the development of more decentralised services in the specialist health service. Both the government council and I have visited the Alta health centre and have been impressed by the offer that is there. Alta maternity home is an excellent offer for women in the region, an offer that ensures that more people can feed in their local environment – and thus drop the trip to Hammerfest and hospitalization there. At Alta health centre there is an ultrasound device, but it can only be used by health professionals from Hammerfest Hospital — and they are present a few days a month. I think it would be appropriate to give the midwives of the Alta maternity ward training to use the apparatus, so that they can carry out examinations when needed – thus saving pregnant women for the trip to Hammerfest. As I see it, this would be entirely in line with the intention of the inter-action reform. What does the Council of State think of this? Would he be able to help the midwives of the Alta maternity ward to carry out the tests there, so that pregnant women could escape a long journey?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e365	I can't quite see the whole of the problem that Sjøli is dealing with here. Therefore, I simply have to ask to come back with an answer to this. We have, as far as I know, a system in Norway where midwives can also conduct ultrasound examinations. There's a training attached to it at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. But if it is possible to implement it in such a way as the representative Sjøli is now in demand, it will probably not be wise for me to answer now. That's why I have to ask to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e372	I want to deal with this with quality. First, I want to commend the case rapporteur for the fact that there is a lot of quality in the setting. Like the Council of State, I agree that this is a good attitude. I fully agree, and it is exciting that we should replace the figures we have today with quality. But there is really little in the report on the criteria. It's suggested a little bit, and then it says how to work this out, which instances to be involved. What I'm going to ask is, how big does the Council of State see that this work is – how is the time aspect of it? Can the Council of State now assure us that we will have a similar system and a similar implementation across the country? Because it will be important to have quality criteria. The last one is: I think you should also include employee organisations – I think of both the Lege Association, the midwife association, the midwife association – in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e381	All work on such national guidelines is comprehensive and important. Now the advantage is that we're starting to get experience with it. It now rolls out professional guidelines and guidance from the Health Directorate in the field by area. I don't dare here and now say how long it will take. But as I expressed in my post, and as I have a very clear opinion that the committee agrees with, it is important to keep up the work. I'll make sure of that. Then we have to make sure that speed does not become a truck. We need to get good guidelines. To have with the Legislature, the Earthmothers' Association, etc. I would like to say that it is not important to have the trade unions, but it is important to have the midwife's skills, medical skills and general nursing skills. So it's important to have competence. It is very common for these guidelines to be provided through wide-ranging professional groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e388	Quality is of course important, and quality is often linked to professionals. Recruiting professionals, especially gynecologists, to the smaller food departments will be a challenge. If you can't do that, the birth departments will rot on root. In a comment from the Committee: ‘The Committee is aware that there are many private practitioners who have operational agreements with regional health undertakings The Committee considers that it is necessary to aim that specialists in operational arrangements should contribute to the fulfilment of the health care undertakings’ responsibilities. [[...]] The Committee considers that it should be assessed, where appropriate, whether private practice gynaecologists may be included in the emergency services of the food departments.» So it's a consensual committee that says it. How will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e401	Firstly, I agree with what is said in the comment. I am very concerned to think so that all private contract specialists are part of the care-responsibilities. Now that we have a change in the structure and link the private contract specialists closer to the regional health companies, it is precisely because the Stortinget and I should be able to make clear the requirements for regional health companies, and point out that in the exercise of responsibility, we also need to include the private contract specialists. To the extent that you have to deal with the responsibility, you have to consider whether to have more private contract specialists. That issue is part of the daily dialogue between the Ministry and regional health businesses. I would like to make sure that regional health companies have understood this in a birth context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e406	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e411	I would like to point out that a unanimous committee believes that the Government's proposal on an obligation for health companies, i.e. the food departments, in order to assess the need for accompanying services, do not provide adequate safety for long-distance midwives to the place of birth. The opposition parties therefore believe – and I think they draw the logical, correct conclusion – that an individual right to follow-up services for pregnant women who have more than an hour of travel to the maternity ward, if needed and if the pregnant woman so wishes, and that accompanying services are provided by qualified personnel, doctors or midwives. On the other hand, government parties believe that the accompanying service needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis and that sick ambulance transport should meet the needs of the pregnant women. I see in the Address Paper on 27 May that the representative of Asphjell says that the government is busy with quality, but that a statutory follow-up service will not provide better quality. I think that's spectacular. Of course, quality is getting better. It provides predictability and safety for the midwives. They are entitled to a qualified follow-up service when the birth is in progress and they have 10 to 20 miles to the maternity ward, because they can feed along the way. Do the government parties think that ambulance staff, even a taxi driver, are good enough birth helpers? There is a great shortage of midwives in the municipalities, and it will be for a long time to come. I have been working as a midwife and a district midwife for 20 years – in District Norway, in small food departments, also in Troms. I've been following many to maternity wards. I have had transport births and unplanned home births, and I know the unsafe conditions of many midwives in District Norway have, very well. The representative of Asphjell even believes that it would be better to arrange for long-distance birth seekers to stay in a hospital for longer periods prior to birth. Such a thought is at least not born of a woman! Do they seriously believe that women in District Norway are going to move to a hospital and live there for longer periods away from men and children, pending birth? Or that they should stay at a medical hotel if the man is fishing, in the North Sea or on the Stortinget? It is not too late for the government parties to turn this case around. I would strongly encourage the vote in favour of the proposal for an individual right to follow-up. The government yesterday turned to the issue of non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. Securing an individual right to follow-up service is a minor reverse operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e424	This is an important matter. I come from a part of the country and a state of great distances that may seem insurmountable in certain situations. This is particularly tactile when you need a hospital, and like this: when you need a feeding room or a food clinic. The government has made it a slogan to use the whole country, but meets itself at the door of this case. The centre party, which likes to present itself as a district lot no. 1, should make it a fanatical matter to put in place a support service for pregnant women with a long journey to the place where the birth is planned to take place. The party is really disappointing here today. There are not a few children in Norway who have seen the day’s light on the way to a hospital or a feeding room because the journey can often be long. Fortunately, it usually goes well, but it's these kids and their mothers right will give a safer start in life. It is incomprehensible whether the Stortinget is not able to make decisions today on a competent follow-up service, where either midwife or doctor can assist women in the perhaps most vulnerable situation you can imagine. Paradoxically, Stortinget has given better protection to domestic animals in Norway than to pregnant women. Indeed, the Animal Protection Act bans the transport of pregnant cows and horses during the last two weeks before birth. Women in District Norway, on the other hand, have no counter-representation against – at worst – several hours of driving without the supervision of women in densely populated areas being offered when the birth is going on and they can quickly be at the place of birth. The right considers that the time is overdue for the right to an accompanying service for pregnant women to be statutory. Very many women in Norway have a long journey to the place where they are to be born, and provision of accompanying services will provide women with important and necessary safety at the end of pregnancy. Legislative support for birth will mean that many women can be given much better follow-up and a much safer transport to the birthplace in North Norway and District Troms. Whether the Government really believes that it is going to be attractive also for young people who are in a situation where they put children into the world, to live in District Norway is a good health offer and, in this context, proper transport to the place of birth, in the opinion of the Right, of vital importance. This is important for the women concerned, and for the many district municipalities, which will thus be able to provide their emerging mothers with a qualitatively better supply in the food situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e443	I think it's almost low to pull in the transport of pregnant cows and compare it to women's pregnancy, because there are two completely different things. What are we doing now, and what is the Government's announcement that one should do? Well, you have to make sure of the quality. The state must take responsibility, and one must improve today's order. Until today it has been very different. In the small municipalities, as has been said by several, poor coverage of midwifery. Why didn't the Right do something about it in the last period? Now the government parties take responsibility and say that it is the responsibility of the state, wherever you live, to ensure that you need it, you should receive an accompanying service. The state has to take the bill. That's what's going on right now. There is a quality lifting and clarification of the responsibility that everyone, wherever they live in Norway, should be entitled to follow-up service under the Patient Rights Act if necessary. There will be an assessment of the need. It's not a sick condition to be born, but we have a patient rights law that ensures that if you need it, you have the right to transport. The state now takes responsibility, takes the bill. We're doing a quality lift. So let's do one more thing. We want to strengthen the local midwife service to get a better offer throughout pregnancy, over time afterwards, and we give priority to getting the resources in there, so that the municipalities use their resources there. Then the state is going to take responsibility for the transport, so in sum we get a safer and better service than it has been now, and as it was in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e454	It's a very important topic we're now discussing. The rapporteur also highlighted this excellently with accompanying services as an important part of the entire maternity care system. I too would like to strike a blow to this proposal, and I would ask the strongest government parties to follow this proposal as it is now available, namely that women who have more than one hour of travel should be provided with accompanying services. In my opinion, it is not good enough to say that those who need it will get it. That's not the way the real world is out there if you don't have a system where you have a caretaker system for the midwifery. You have it in some places in the country, for example. in North Hordland. Intercommunal meetings have been held on a midwife service both in small and large municipalities. It actually works very well. Women can be safe. But what I'm very concerned about is that there are too many women who come to the birthplace alone, and then it happens that they are all too often sent home again because the birth has not come far enough, the grandmother is not big enough. We see this happening to women who may have several hours of travel. They were sent back in the taxi again. I've talked to a lot of them, and they get very worried. That's why I think having a guard guard with midwives, having midwives who can go to the hospital or to the birthplace is absolutely crucial. It will create security, it will create the necessary tranquillity and dignity around the woman. Then one might also – if one has this system – avoid that too many travel too early to the birthplace. I would like to make a strong request that we create this security around women who are born today. If it's an area I feel that we're not doing it well enough today, it's in the area of women in a food situation. I think that the offer in the last few years has almost gotten worse and worse. It has to be done faster and faster. They're almost out of the place of birth. In the major hospitals, there's an enormous pressure to get them out almost faster than fraud, as we say. This is also a problem that I want the Council of State to be very aware of in its further work on the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e465	I note with disappointment that the Central Party will not actually follow up on a proposal that it has been positive to the past. The representative Battle Force Vedum indicates that nothing was done in the previous period. The issue is that in 2001, the Right contributed very strongly with the Minister of Health at the time, Tore Tønne, to ensuring a decentralised and differentiated birth care. Then there was a change of government, and the decisions that the Storting had made were followed up by the previous government. But that wasn't good enough. There were not enough midwives in the community health service, and that was not good enough quality. Nor was it the transformation of maternity wards into feeding rooms, which the Stortingen’s decision had foreseen. There was also a background for the National Council for Paternity Care, which was established in 2002, to express their poor cooperation with the Ministry in 2006–2007. They therefore placed their duties in protest against not having implemented what had been adopted. In fact, I would recommend everyone to read the Health Authority’s report – it’s quite a lot of reading. When these questions arose in 2006, former Minister of Health, Brustad, said that she would present an action plan for maternity and maternity care. We waited for that for two years. Last spring, when it did not come, the Right made a proposal in Stortinget about a comprehensive maternity, maternity and maternity care, including the proposal for an individual right to follow-up service. Then, every time the former Minister of Health, Brustad, arrived on the track and announced a big message. So it's been a year, but I'm very happy that we've been dealing with it. It's the story here and the back carpet -- it's important to bring it with you. But, as I said, I am registering with disappointment especially the Center Party, which has been so concerned about this. I heard the representative Schlagsvold Vedum mention something about the animal protection law here. It was actually a representative from the Center Party who a few years ago made us aware that pregnant heifers actually have better protection than women living in the districts, when it comes to joining the Food Department. This is a position the Central Party has held in the past. They have also been able to get a safe and good follow-up service, and Battle violence Vedum himself said that you should be entitled to follow-up service. But who is the one who should assess whether to enforce that right? There is no response from the government parties today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e474	This is an important big business message. It's actually so that the most important thing many of us do here in life is to give birth. It is a great experience for the family, now also for fathers who have been allowed to be part of the birth for some years. It is important that the framework around pregnancy and birth is qualitatively good. Good pregnancy depends on proper care in pregnancy, and not least during birth. I should also like to commend the rapporteur. I think that has been a very good treatment of the message. We're the first two midwives on this big bang, and it's very good that a midwife has taken care of this message. I would like to support what has been said in connection with accompanying services. But we have a big problem in Norway: we don't have enough midwives in the municipalities. The first thing you have to do now is to let the woman decide if she wants to go to the midwife, doctor, or whatever she wants in pregnancy, are midwives around the country, so that you can have an accompanying service that is good. Many are sitting around with 20 pst. and 25 pst. jobs, for which it is completely impossible to live, and in many places you do not get pension credits. I believe the first thing that must happen, also in relation to the interaction reform, is to manipulate the midwife services around the municipalities. I'm myself employed both in the municipality and in the hospital fifty-fifty when I'm not here. It is clear that this is entirely dependent on strengthening the midwifery services in the municipalities. I heard my good party colleague, the representative Ballo, have an article here on small food departments. Now I am also a home-born midwife, and I believe that women should have a decentralised and good birth offer, and should be able to choose. It's not that because you're in a large maternity ward, it can't go wrong. It's actually so that the major food departments are much more involved in a birth, which can cause complications. It has not been long since the World Health Organization actually concluded that it is safer for a healthy mother to give birth at home than to be born in large central food departments – there is a risk of this, including on the infection side. On the SV side, I just want to say that a decentralised and good birth offer is important, so that women and men can choose the birth experience they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e487	First, I would like to stress two things I'm very happy for: one is that by May Hansen complements me, we as a party come out much better. The second is that I want to join in what others have said about the work done by the case rapporteur – Sonja Irene Sjøli has done an excellent job, and the committee has worked at its best because one has been responsive to recordings, and has thus come out well. What I think is a bit of a shame in the cold water of it, is that now the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has moved out on a siding, as if there was a great deal of disagreement in this room, and that we have failed severely in terms of the quality of the delivery services. Fortunately, that's not right. Everyone's concerned about the quality. We are concerned that it needs to be strengthened, and that we should have midwives available. After all, the midwife service is a law-enforcement service. But I want – not to ironize or be unfine – to problematize what someone believes very strongly, namely that lawmaking provides better protection and a strengthened service. Does the assembly here think that if the appendix is infected, you should have a legal right to have it removed? Does the House believe that the statutory right to get into the medical ward first if you are the sickest in the waiting room is something we should introduce? It should not be so unreasonable in principle if you believe that there should be a statutory right to follow up if you are pregnant. Does the congregation feel that there should be a statutory right to get an ergot therapist to look at appropriate kitchen solutions if you have had a stroke? Does the congregation mean that you should have a legal right to have Caesar's cuts if the pelvic pelvis is too much for normal feeding? Does the Assembly believe that if you have been in a serious traffic accident, you should have a legal right to an ambulance and therefore not have a normal car ambulance? So the point is that lawmaking in many ways becomes an absurdity when it comes to health care, is to decide on the actual situation that exists, and the need for transport. Obviously, if you have a pregnant woman who has started riding, and who is in a situation where you need a high level of competence, you have to assess your skills as a starting point, not on the assumption that you have to look up in a code to see what it says. That's why we, the majority, have not supported the proposal of Sonja Irene Sjøli and the opposition. This is also why the opposition, if one day they themselves come into position, will not introduce this either – simply because the health care service's task is to make professional assessments of what is appropriate and necessary in the individual situation. That's why, of course, we won't get a law on the right to have the appendix removed if it's infected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e498	I'm not going to go into a debate with anyone, but I just want to explain a little bit about the thinking behind the clarifications that the Government is prepared to do about the follow-up service. Then I want to assume that the guiding principle in Health Norway is that everyone should have the right to the necessary health care. That is what is the basis for our rights legislation — that is, necessary health care. Furthermore, the guiding principle is that the final assessment related to what is needed for health care is an assessment by health professionals. There may be different health professionals in different contexts. In this case, if so, for example. is a midwife who follows on from pregnancy and is closest, it may be the health care professional who carries out the final assessment. If you have a follow-up of pregnant women in your hospital, the final evaluation may be done by the healthcare professional. However, it is also very important to say that when assessing the right to necessary health care, and the final assessment by health professionals, that assessment should be made in close dialogue with the patient — in this context the birthing person. What we're very concerned about in this context is that health professionals should be aware that providing an accompanying service can be quite necessary health care, even if it's not medically necessary, if it's necessary for the born person to feel safe on the way to the place of birth. This will, of course, be captured through the work on the technical guidelines and will be an important part of it. What has so far been the big problem in view of the responsibilities that currently exist for the accompanying service is that many have practically failed to follow up on this. Just to link a practical reality with this legal understanding, we have said that the State will now take responsibility for the accompanying service, and that it is the healthcare companies, which I will then follow closely, that have to organise themselves so that it becomes a real right. This means that, in certain areas, there are guards for accompanying services, as the representative Davøy pointed out. It seems to me to be a good example of how health businesses now have to judge themselves to make this a real right. In this way, there will be a real right in line with other patient rights, i.e. that you have the right to necessary health care. It is a decision made by health professionals, but in close dialogue with the one concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e509	The representative of Ballo accuses me of derailment in the debate, but I think that derailment is actually the responsibility of the representative of Ballo, and that therefore deserves no further comments. There is another question I would like to raise, and it concerns medically assisted rehabilitation for pregnant women. Norwegian authorities warn pregnant people against eating blue mould cheese and drinking more than two cups of coffee daily. Then it is alarming that the same authorities distribute methadone and Subutex to pregnant drug addicts. As a result, children are born with severe withdrawals and developmental disorders, and a alarmingly high number of deaths have been reported among these infants. In fact, we do not know what adverse effects this drug use has on children in the long term. We believe that children have the right to be born without abstinence, and that children of addicts must be given equal protection against health damage to other children. Society has a special responsibility to protect these children. We need to give crucial attention to the health of children. We cannot experiment with children, but we must protect them as far as possible from the risk of health damage. I am pleased that the entire committee supports our comment on this point, and it must mean that children will no longer be test rabbits in research projects to reveal the extent of the damage to children exposed to Subutex and methadone during pregnancy. It has been pointed out that detoxification during pregnancy may be harmful to children and that postnatal detoxification may be better. However, it is evident that LAR users planning pregnancy must be advised to discontinue methadone and Subutex prior to pregnancy. Administrations must provide well-protected treatment facilities to enable a drug-free pregnancy. The cooperation administration granted in 2005 earmarked drugs for drug-free treatment for pregnant, drug addicts and LAR users in order to protect children from harmful health use of methadone, Subutex or drugs. In an interpellation debate in 2006, the Right asked that LAR users planning pregnancy should step down on methadone and be offered a screened treatment plan without medication in their pregnancy. The Brustad County Council then stated that she would ask the health authorities to develop new guidelines for the follow-up of pregnant LAR users. A press release from the Health Directorate in March of this year indicates that they will be completed in 2010. I want to ask the Council of State why it takes so long. What does the Council of State do to better protect these children from health damage? I would also challenge the government parties to respond to why they are not willing to support the proposal for a clear directive on the professional community that drug addicts planning pregnancy should descend on methadone and Subutex.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e528	It is gratifying that the Stortinget today deals with a comprehensive report on maternity, maternity and maternity care. At the same time, it is sad that the Storting does not take advantage of the opportunity to ensure that nurturing women throughout the country have a significant increase in the quality of maternity care. This is necessary, because in recent years we have seen a deterioration in the supply of food. In Trøndelag, where I'm from, we experience summer-ridden maternity wards. We experience that the maternity wards of St. Olavs are being closed, that there is only one department that is open, and that women in birth are being left to themselves at the hall. We have witnessed that there have been births in departments without the presence of a midwife. It is absolutely necessary that we now have an increase in the quality offer. Let me say two words about the follow-up service. First of all, I would like a clarification from the Minister for Health: is it such that he is behind his colleague Asphjell's statement in the Address Paper that if the offer made by the accompanying service today is not complete, are women going to be admitted to hospital hotels before birth? Will it be government policy? Is this how we are now going to put up the food supply – that you live far enough away from the hospital, are we going to make sure that all women are admitted to hospital for the time before a birth? The Minister of Health has to answer that question. I must also comment on the representative of the Central Party, Mr Vedum. I am mildly said to be shocked to sit in the main hall and hear the representative of the Central Party defend that the Central Party will not be in favour of a quality enhancement of the accompanying service for women in the districts. If we're going to make it possible for young people who want to have children to live in the districts, then we're going to give them an opportunity to feel safe as it approaches birth and the woman is going to be born in a hospital that's far away. In Trøndelag I have experienced an episode in a hospital myself, where I met a woman who drove from Frøya or Hitra, all alone, because it was not possible to get hold of the midwife. She was born on the way to the hospital, and it was no good experience to hear her story. There is no good start in life for a child to be born in a car or on a ferry on the way to the hospital, and there is no good experience for mother. Please, I'm asking the government parties to turn around. You turned last night into the nursery. You realized that you were doing something wrong, and you should realize that you are also doing something wrong today and supporting the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e541	I have nothing new to say about the government's attitude to the follow-up service, so I leave it. What made me take the floor again was the discussion of those involved in LAR processing. You could say it's very important to divide that problem into two. One is the question of what kind of advice is given to those participating in the LAR programmes in relation to becoming pregnant. There we are 100 pst. Any. It is a very clear and strong recommendation that while going on methadone and Subutex, you should definitely not get pregnant. It is part of the guidance in LAR, and you also offer prevention guidance, etc. to LAR participants in order to prevent pregnancy. But the difficult question is, what if someone still gets pregnant while they're participating in the LAR? For me, it's not a political question. I have asked the Health Directorate, as my professional adviser, what is the best thing for the child if someone who goes on methadone or Subutex gets pregnant? And then the Health Directorate tells me that there's of course a certain professional disagreement about, but the summarised recommendation is that it's better that the pregnant woman performs the pregnancy while on methadone, and that you treat the child's withdrawal after it is born, than to treat the child's withdrawal while the child is in the mother's stomach. As long as it's the professional recommendation, I support it. If there was to be a new technical advice that you now think it is better to treat the child in the mother's stomach, I will support it. The advice given by the Health Directorate is in line with the advice of the World Health Organisation. But we now have a full review of this issue once more, sum up knowledge, and we are going to come up with new technical guidelines during 2010. There is a wide-ranging technical committee that reviews the issue again. If, as I said, there was a recommendation that now you want to treat the withdrawal problem while the child is in the mother's stomach, then it has my full support. It is impossible for me as a health minister to stand here and say that the Health Directorate and the World Health Organization recommend that we treat the withdrawal of the child after it is born, but I disagree politically with that. I don't feel I can run health policies that way. Health policy is a mix of subjects and policies, and here I believe we are very much in the field of the subject. As long as the professional recommendation is as it is, I feel very strongly to follow it, but to challenge the subject if it's up to date, if it's thoughtful, if it's worked through, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e554	I just want to support the fact that it's actually like per. Today also has the right to follow-up if you need it. I myself live half an hour away from the Central Food Department in Eastfold, and I follow many women. It is important to monitor the cases where there is a risk of very rapid birth during pregnancy. It's like if you've been born fast for the first time, you do it at least the second time. It is important that pregnancy care assumes responsibility to identify what women need. It is also the case that the central food departments are moving out where there is a risk of people being fed quickly, and it may also assess people in the ambulance when it comes. Personally, I've followed a lot of women in birth, both if you need it from, for example. psychiatry, and if you know that this is a risk of early birth. I believe that midwives are the best people to assess, I have to say that, and that is why we need to have a good midwife service around the municipalities that have job breaks that you can live with. Then I'd like to say one thing about summer-bound maternity wards. I would ask the Minister to say from around to the health companies that you can't do that, because it's the way most women give birth in the summer. It's actually because you have the largest birth tree in this country, you can look at any food department around the country. If you have summer-bound maternity wards, you also get pressured on the central, large departments so much that you might be born there alone as well. It happens. Therefore, it is important to have a high level of preparedness when birth rates are high. It is not that there are the same number of children born every day in this country. It goes up and down, and therefore the maternity wards also have to be staffed in proportion to the pressure and that it is variable birth rates. I come from a centralized place, and even in the summer, food departments are being closed down and economics are being used as arguments. I believe that this is completely unacceptable, and I think the message says a lot about it not happening. So I'm asking that it be tightened up in relation to the health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e565	Social violence Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e568	I felt the need for a remark to the representative of Hofstad Helleland, who was very shocking – as she expressed it. She claimed in her post that the Center Party is not going in today to strengthen the follow-up service. It's actually wrong. That's exactly what we do by publicising the accompanying service, so that it becomes a state responsibility wherever it is in the country. Whether it's in Folldal or it's in Oslo, it's a government responsibility to have a good follow-up service. Then we get a readiness and a greater security, a unified system, around the accompanying service itself, as opposed to today, as it is very dependent on the coverage of the individual municipality. If there is no earth murder plan today, the State is responsible for ensuring that it becomes a proper and good follow-up service. It's an improvement on today's situation, not a deterioration, which one could get the impression that Hofstad Helleland thought it was. We'll take responsibility. We believe that the state should take responsibility, because one cannot cover this well enough around the municipality of Norway. It is good for women who are facing births all around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e575	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e578	I also have a comment on Linda Hofstad Helleland, because she said that we are against the quality of the follow-up service – which is completely wrong. That's not what this is about. Now the cars are basically a two-man general. There is a device in the ambulances that it was not a few years ago, and it is being strengthened by the fact that health businesses have a completely different responsibility than before. However, the question here is whether lawmaking strengthens that situation. Now, the midwife service is a legal service. Nevertheless, the opposition also describes that there is a great shortage of midwives in the municipalities. So other tools have to be put in place, namely to recruit midwives and to arrange for more jobs. It is not the law itself that solves the problem – it has just been made visible with the lack that has occurred in the municipalities in the case of midwives. Then I very much agree with the reasoning of the Council of State that it is not possible to adopt politically what is to be considered health-related. It would be like deciding at a national meeting that you should have ultrasound for pregnant women between week 10 and week 13. Of course you don't. It has to be up to the health authorities to assess whether this makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e587	After hearing the end of the debate and hearing the disagreement, it is at least obvious that most things are agreed on. So there's a couple of points that you disagree about, and some try to make a slightly larger number of it than what might be necessary. Then I just have to remind the representative, Mr Ballo, of the following: the Grand Summit is the legislative and the awarding assembly. It is the Stortinget that will set some posts for what is to be done within the law. In the case of ultrasound, on which the representative Ballo himself was involved, it is governed by law, among other things. when an ultrasound must be available in the public domain. With regard to health care, where the representative Ballo somehow tried to distinguish between what to give right to and not right to, I think it's going to be a complete derailment, because just when it comes to the infected appendix, you have a right to health care when you need it. So that right there. Pregnants are basically healthy people, but there are healthy people who need assistance to carry out their pregnancy and birth, so it actually comes in another category. What is involved in accompanying services is incredibly important. I'm not going to take on any great competence in the field, because I've only been on two births – and if I'm going to be allowed: temporarily, I think that's enough! But I have to say the following: the uncertainty that many people feel in such a situation, especially as first-time birthers, and often in the district, while we see that maternity wards are laid down, we see that they are summer-bound, and we also see problems related to the conversion of the ambulance service in some places, makes it really important that we have a law that lies at the bottom, so that we ensure just these things. That's what – I was saying – everyone other than the government parties want to put in place here. So, of course, I want to support the Council of State in what's going on with pregnant people during the LAR project. But I think it's a little important that the Council of State also gives some additional incentives to do more research in the field, because even if you're going to get advice from different environments, I think it's important that we also go in and research and look at this in order to get a good basis for the advice that's to be given. One more thing: the total care is of course what's important here. When the Council of State says that it is the health companies that are to be responsible for accompanying services, I think they have to be required to agree exactly with the municipalities and the midwife service that is there, because it cannot be that you have to leave the hospital for two hours to pick up the pregnant woman, and then go back again. Then you lose a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e602	The Chairman of the Committee just referred to his experience with two births. I assume that one was his own, because that very experience has most of us, probably. It may well be worth reminding at the bottom of this debate that pregnancy and childbirth are not diseases. Being pregnant is not a state of illness, but it's a very special state and a very vulnerable and vulnerable state. A birth is a quite pervasive impression, as well as for mother as for children, and possibly father if he were to be present. What must be the leading star here must necessarily be to create maximum security for all the parties involved, primarily for the most vulnerable, namely the child en route and who, hopefully, will be able to be redeemed successfully, then for the birthing woman, and then for the family as a whole. As I see it, the Committee's position, in that it is supported by a broad consensus on most points, is an adequate response to that, and that what has been emphasised by the Committee may help to increase security even a little more than what is already the case in our Norwegian maternity care. There were two other things that I felt the need to comment so far. One was the State Council's statement that health policy is a mix of subjects and policies. Yes, of course it is. But that's exactly why I might think that the Minister of Health's very sharp distinction between what's just a subject, and what's just a policy, really became a little illogical, and that it also becomes a little illogical about this with the use of drugs under pregnancy, just to hide behind the purely professional authorities, whether they're in Geneva or they're in Oslo. I don't think it's easy to get away with it, because even the professional authorities very often base political judgements. Then it's our job as politicians also there to be a little on guard and sort out the professional elements that are only professional, from the political discretionary assessments that professionals, of course, make. So a little comment on this with ultrasound. This is a topic that has been the subject of two consensus conferences over the years in Norway, and both times it was fully professionally agreed that the present offer with one study in a normal ongoing pregnancy was the only one true. That is why it surprises me that someone can propose that this change be made overnight only with reference to a single professional authority. At least one should at least walk the road to a consensus conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3212]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e629	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e638	The last thing was essentially about the beginning of life. This is about the final phase of life. Food supply and maternity and maternity care create, as we now have heard, great commitment, and that's important, and that's right. But also the matter that we're about to deal with, excites attention and commitment. That is why it is good for the Stortinget to have this issue of hospice on the agenda. The proposal for a representative is based on the proposal to create a State funding mechanism for the establishment and operation of the hospice in Norway. Hospice is not exactly a Norwegian name, but as it says in the setting, it has ‘hospice as the task of ensuring that dying people are given a dignified and safe renunciation of life in quiet surroundings with care and’ — as it says at the end — ‘good renunciation and care’. [[...]] The Committee expresses its intention to improve palliative treatment and care at the end of life. The Committee has also stated that they believe that such an offer must be well integrated into the healthcare system as a whole, so that people with the need for relieving and/or palliative treatment can have a well-organised supply as close as possible to their home. As I say in the introduction, the proposers want a government funding scheme for hospice, but the members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that this ‘will not adequately cover the entire treatment course for palliative treatment all the time that will have to be done by outpatient teams, hospitals and the like’. In the Committee, there is a multiple of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which indicate that both the personnel costs and not least the medical costs of palliative units are much higher than those of a regular hospital ward, and that the costs of stopping palliative units in hospitals are about half the cost of hospitalisation. Since there is no funding system for palliative units in hospitals, this fraction suggests that this needs to be put in place. On this basis, this majority proposes that: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a financing mechanism to meet the costs of palliative units in nursing homes’. The Progress Party has divergent proposals, and I believe that the Progress Party itself will comment on the proposals. What we see in the setting is that the Committee's recommendation to you is promoted by the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. When it comes to II, it's a constellation consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. It appears in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e664	As the rapporteur said, today we are dealing with the outer edges of life – the beginning and the end. No one disagrees that we must have a good offer in terms of palliative treatment in Norway. The disagreement only comes when it comes to who will give the offer and how it will be financed. The representative proposal is about that. It is important that the offer given to patients in one of the most difficult stages of life, where one is close to the end of life, often with both physical and mental pain, is a good offer. It must be of good quality, caregivers must have good competence and be able to offer various forms of pain relief. There's a lot of good offers around. Many municipalities have built up good expertise in the field, either by their own departments or beds that are adapted to the needs. However, more sites are lacking, and this should be further developed. Here we can learn from each other, see what works, and see what best takes care of all the elements that must be present for good soothing treatment. Many also die in emergency wards or in hospitals in regular bed places, where competence is good, but the environment is not always organized. One cannot always take care of relatives well enough in a busy hospital day. I know that from my own experience as a nurse in a department with a lot of palliative care. On our trip to Denmark, we visited a hospice and heard how it worked. They were happy with what they got, and it looked very good. Information we have received subsequently shows that in Denmark, the public offer has been weakened due to the construction of hospices around it. The Labour Party will not be in it. It is worth noting the concerns raised by the Medical Association at the hearing regarding the building up of offers on the public side. It is often difficult medicine, which requires complex offers such as: surgical intervention, radiation or strong opiates. Therefore, few, but good offers are needed that can give this. Relieving treatment is not only treatment in the final phase of the disease, but also when curative treatment is stopped. The competence of the staff to work with patients in this group must be professionally good. The concern is that if one spreads too many places, there will be a lack of competence where needed. We believe that professional environments of this type should be grouped together and should be able to develop for the benefit of the patient. The Labour Party wants further development and improvement of the offer in terms of palliative care, and encourages all municipalities either to establish departments themselves or to join other municipalities and to set up departments to care for this group – in cooperation with hospitals. We look forward to the interaction reform, which may be able to achieve this. Making it possible for an ambulance team to let people die at home is also important. We therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. We do not disagree that people will get good offers, but we disagree with the good offer – a clear line between our thinking and our bet and those of our citizens. Dignity and good relief are the goal, and in our opinion it will be done in public. Then I will also draw attention to the fact that there are many ideals, good organizations that run palliative care, and of course they must also have room for development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e687	For many, the final phase of life can be both painful and unworthy. According to the University of Gjøvik, it is at any time approx. 15 000 people who may need palliative care in the final phase of life. For these people, pain relief, care and care are important, and the emphasis is not primarily on disease control, but on the quality of life of the patient and its relatives. The aim of the treatment shall be care and quality of life, the aim shall not be to prolong life or the death process. The proximity to home in this phase will be desirable and important for most. But this is only possible if the health care system is organised as a continuous chain with great flexibility. In addition, it is necessary to include the family as a resource, and to prepare the relatives and teach them how to care for the seriously ill. Doctors and nurses will be the most central in a palliative team together with the clergyman, physiotherapist, socionomist, nutritionist, ergotterapeut etc. There may be a lot of different, but it's individually who needs to be in a team. The pressure on hospitals means that complex problems need to be tackled more and more in hospitals. The dying are getting older, and 40 pst. of all deaths are occurring today in a nursing home. This means that the specialists of the palliative teams must be able to assist the nursing home doctor in consultations and that the other competencies of the team can be used. There is also a need for strengthening home-based care and the establishment of appropriate facilities in hospitals. In addition, more hospices should be established. There are actually actors who want to run hospice but who are not allowed to offer their services today. The Committee’s professional trip and visits to a hospice in Denmark, where they offer a worthy care and palliative care to people in the final phase of life, showed that this is a right offer for many. In connection with the hospice, there was also an outpatient activity to provide palliative care at home. It was also stated that several patients went in and out of the hospital while they were at the hospital. So now there are problems with funding and interaction with the public health service that prevent the establishment of more hospices as an offer to patients in Norway. The progress party considers it important that palliative care can be available where it is best for the patient. In order to meet the need, different alternatives should be developed and patients who are not allowed to stay in hospitals should be given the opportunity to receive palliative care at a hospice, a palliative hospital ward or in their own homes, as appropriate. Often this may occur in several places as the patient’s condition and the need for treatment and care change. That's why we're proposing government funding that follows the patient. This is to provide funding whether the patient is in a hospital, a hospice, a hospital ward or in his own home. It's also the only kind of funding we can see captures the whole and the ability to choose. Palliation is not only given to the elderly in the last phase, but also to patients with chronic, long-term cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, MS, AIDS and other conditions of disease. We are likely to see an increasing need for this type of care and care provision in the coming years. Funding is allocated through earmarked funds to some projects in the field of relief treatment, but in many municipalities there is no palliative offer in nursing homes or hospice. The explanation is quite simple: the financing of relief in hospital has been ensured by the ISF scheme related to the DRG code, but special requirements have been set for institutions to trigger this tariff. The problem is that the money is not paid to the nursing homes or to the hospices if they do not have an agreement with health companies – but there is a proposal to change today. It is one of the greatest challenges for the further development of palliative offers in the coming period, and it needs a quick solution. It is again about financing care and care. So there's a plug in the system that at the moment the patient moves into the community health service, it doesn't come with money. It concerns the financing of both medicine and personnel. Since 2002, there has been a separate grant scheme aimed at strengthening the provision of relief and care at the end of life outside hospitals. So this has not been enough. I would also like to show that Sylvia Brustad has clearly stated that she wants more hospices. I believe that a flexible palliative offer requires good interaction, but it also requires financing solutions that stimulate such measures. I take up the proposal of the Progress Party to launch a test project with hospice, in which the State grants operating grants, and also the proposal for its own state funding for palliative care – i.e. all kinds of palliative care. I would also like to say that the Progress Party will substantially support the Committee's position under I.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e710	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e713	The historical origin of everything called health care is the ancient philosophy of play. The classic definition back to Hippocrates defines the doctor’s role in three joints: healing, relieving, consoling. It might be worth remembering that the same Hippocrates, which was a very wise man, added: in some cases we can heal, in most cases we can relieve, we can comfort in all cases. When there's reason to remember it, it's because our modern attitude has gone more and more towards insisting that healthcare is for one single purpose, namely to cure, cure, cure, any conceivable disease. If you have such an opinion, first of all, you're creating totally unreasonable expectations, which makes a lot of people need to be disappointed. Then expectations would like to find other ways, whether it is in the direction of Snow or elsewhere on the globe – if the basic expectation is that any condition must be cured. That is why we see a growing demand for so-called alternative healthcare in the modern affluent society. The second reason why it is important to remember this is that this expectation that everything can be cured by science also has a backside: that when you are forced to find that there is nothing more you can offer through scientifically justified treatment, a peculiar estimate arises that you must at least be able to bring the syringe that ends your life, because it is in a way the final, final form of healthcare. I think it is quite thoughtful that such an idea can be passed on on on the basis of a bench proposal at a political national meeting. It tells a lot about the mentality of the modern affluent society. I think Hippocrates was right. Maybe it's even easier to see it today than it was at his time, that no matter how good we get to deal with disease conditions, any individual life course will end. No one can do anything about it. What you can do is make sure that people are allowed to live until they die, that is. that the last part of the life cycle is also defined as part of the overall life cycle and not as a pointless appendix to shorten. Hippocrates was right. Today, it's probably even right to say that you can expand term two: we can actually relieve all of the cases with the tools we have available today. There are no forms of physical pain that can't be relieved, well noticed if knowledge is used properly. That's where the shoe presses in today's health care system. I was a little confused when Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen drew the distinction between public and private in this context. I can't believe that that debate really has something to do with this, because the pioneering work done so far in Norway in caring for this by relieving and consoling is all done by pioneers, individuals, within private organizations. That's why we have a Hospice Lovisenberg. That's why we have a hospice at Haraldsplatz in Bergen. Therefore, there are fires that want to establish hospice services elsewhere in Norway. I cannot understand and understand that the answer to this can be that because it does not happen in public terms, it should not be encouraged and supported either. I am not able to understand the resistance of the Medical Association. I am also not able to understand the connection of the government parties to the resistance of the medical association, for this is obviously not about either – or, but about a both – and. If we hadn't had the hospice institutions we have in Norway today, the offer in the public health system and the awareness of this in the public health system had been far less developed than it actually is. This isn't a either-or. It's a boat and a boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e726	It is a little special to stand here today and consider a proposal from the Progress Party on care for the dying just a few days after the same party has decided at its national meeting to open up active death aid. In my opinion, bets on relieving treatment and thus active life support are the main act of securing everyone a worthy death. The inviolability of life must apply to life out. We know today that studies from the Netherlands and from Oregon show that relatively few of those asking for help for suicide, or euthanasia, do so because of painful symptoms, such as pain or shortness of breath. The main causes for most are rather fear of such symptoms. Permitting active death care will mean a new role for health professionals. Through healthcare, the community says to the individual: you're valuable, and we want you here as long as it goes. Therefore, the goal must always be to save lives and relieve suffering, as the representative Inge Wohnning did. Relieving treatment is defined as treatment in the final phase of life, where not only pain relief through medications but also psychosocial, existential and spiritual interventions are central. This is help for the whole human being. I agree with the representative, Wage, that in today's Norway we can give everyone a dignified and painless death if we use all the tools we have, professionally, medically and otherwise. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the offer in the final phase of life. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) agreement with the Government has been successful in ensuring that the incentive for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes can also go to the construction of hospice places in the municipalities. It is important that the offer of relieving treatment is an overall offer. There must be both specialist health services and municipalities through institutions and outpatient teams coming home. The exchange of competences and extensive interaction between levels is crucial. Everyone must and must be confident that they will receive the help and support they need for a worthy death. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to establish a financing mechanism that ensures the costs of palliative units. In today's debate on active death aid, I would also like to mention the new national guide on limiting life-long treatment, which actually came a few days ago. In my opinion, it is a very good guide that we all here in Stortinget should actually look up and read. It's been working on it for a long time. It's reflective and really good and is going to be of use to health professionals, who have actually asked for it for a long time. It could contribute to the strengthening of respect and dignity of people in the final phase of their lives. It is very important to build up more departments and places for dying in our country. But it is also essential that we, as a society, are given a holistic care and treatment for people in the final phase of life, regardless of where the individual person lives in the last time he or she lives. Finally, I would quote a small portion of the Marie Aakre, who is the head of the Nursery Council, wrote just a few days ago in an article in the Nurse: ‘Life respect is more important than autonomy. Respect for life is the most important and fundamental ethical norm on which our society and health care is based. Death and the death process belong to life.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e746	This is a debate where you can learn a lot from listening to representatives from both the Right and the Christian People's Party and reflecting on what is being said. That's a lot of good stuff. I want to start by saying that we in the Center Party are passionately engaged in the hospice tank. I can illustrate this by the fact that our parliamentary leader was in the first board of Hospice Norway. I myself was on the board of the owner company of Lovisenberg Hospital, and have been deeply engaged in the private, ideal starting offers that have been. Caring at the end of life is a very demanding task in health care. It challenges us as politicians, it challenges the relatives who are going to care for it, and not least professionals. Death is the end of the journey of life, and it is in very many contexts in the daily pursuit of a hospital, in the hospital car, at the emergency room, in the hospital home that death occurs. Sometimes it happens abruptly, sometimes calmly. But we need people in the ambulance, in the hospital, everywhere in health care, who have understanding and words about death, and who know how to deal with people who are dying. Every day, some people experience serious illness, and some experience loss from their loved ones — loss that can fundamentally change their lives for them. I see the proposal from the Progress Party as a desire for us to have institutions that have special competence to face death, the hospice idea – where the dying gets to meet both physical, mental, social and spiritual needs. Just the social aspect is very important. Hospice has this item, for example: in the case of volunteers, which is an important part of the idea of treating the seriously ill and dying. The goal is a worthy end to life. In addition to being an offer to individual patients through day centres, as well as beds when people are going to die and are no longer able to stand on their feet, hospice has a great task of teaching, not only in the specialist health service, but also in the community health service. When hospice works well, this is the important intermediate between the community health service and the specialist health service that makes patients, whether at home or in a bed on a hospice, surrounded by the same people. Training for people working in the community health service is an important part of the activity both at Sunniva Hospice and at Hospice Lovisenberg. The parties to the Government have requested that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. Both in this debate and in previous debates, the Hanssen Council of State has stressed that he has a great sense of the underlying philosophy. In this setting, we have stressed the importance of making all parts of the healthcare aware in their meeting with death – whether it is in the ambulance or at the emergency room. We believe that the most important thing is that we are able to support new hospices and the hospices that are already there, as inspiration centres, so that the broad health system is lifted, that we get a language, treatment and offer both to the dying and to the relatives in all parts of the healthcare system. In this case, as in so many other cases, there are fires that show the way for the public, and the public comes after. It's the goal here that the hospices can act as inspiration, so that we get that philosophy and thought into public business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e763	In isolation, the proposal made by the Progress Party is positive, in the sense that it signals a willingness to strengthen the quality of care in the final phase of life. However, when the proposal is linked to the decision of the party at its national meeting, such a proposal as this also becomes quite monstrous. If you think you're going to develop offers in society that are such that health professionals are going to make themselves available for any purpose, no matter what you wish to be, and without going against those desires, it's not security that's being created, it's the complete uncertainty without any foundation at the bottom of the people who are the weakest and most insecure. In my view, that is what the Progress Party has decided at its national meeting, shocking, shocking and terrible. Not only should people be able to take their lives to a greater extent than is already the case today, with the consequences for those who are left with grief, with despair, with lack, and who ask all kinds of questions, but they should be prepared to do so more with the help of the public – to facilitate the killing of health professionals. So you have to give health professionals the right to kill. And so it is possible for the party that is Norway's second largest to adopt at a national meeting, because someone is suggesting it from the bench. I have to say that it gives cause for reflection if such a party is going to be in a position to rule this country, because what we're talking about here is one of the most serious things we can talk about, namely how we communicate security to those who are totally dependent on the help of others. It was a few days ago in the paper that a caregiver in Finland was very likely to have killed 14 people. Arnfinn Nesset was sued in Norway in 1983 and sentenced for 22 killings at the Orkdal Sanitätsforeningssämmet. Arnfinn Nesset's understanding of what he did is, of course, the same kind of understanding that the majority of the Progress Party showed at their national meeting, namely that they do a favor to these people because their lives are no longer worthy, it's not a meaningful life they live. I was in debate with the chairman of the Youth of the Progress Party, Ove Vanebo, in Dagsnytt Athens on 25 May 2009. In that debate, Ove Vanebo said that he sees a future in Norway where a group of patients will never get a good enough offer. Therefore, he said, those who did not receive good enough help should get help to die. Let it sink! Let's think through what the Progress Party really says here, and what will be the situation for our weakest if it is implemented! So this is what the Progress Party says in a situation where the resource situation in Norway has never been better compared to different groups. In isolation, the need for such a proposal has never been less than today. If you were to even go into that kind of monstrous thinking, it should have been years ago, when people put their children out in the woods in deep despair because they lacked resources, and because the children were seriously ill. We don't have that society anymore. We have a society based on human principles, where resources just allow us to prevent this. I also have to add that I now think life is being attacked in many ways at both ends of the scale – because you can use the same reasoning related to the abortion law. Never before has it been less possible for someone after week 12 to be in a situation where you don't know you're pregnant, and so unwittingly have to have an abortion. Nevertheless, some argue that the limit should be extended to 16 weeks. There's no reasonable reason to do that. I think it's important that we start to stop and think about both the kind of questions and the questions about the final phase of life. How do we manage life? How do we appear in such a way that people feel safe from birth until they die? The way the Progress Party does it, even in a connection to the hospice, is a way that can't create security for anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e782	I feel the need to be present during the debate that is in the hall, so I changed the plans a little. As State Council, I have had the great pleasure of visiting many different offers for patients who are in the final phase of life. What has been exciting is that I have both visited people who have received palliative treatment through the home service, i.e. lived at home, and met a home nurse who, in consultation with palliative units in the nearest hospital, has been able to provide the deceased with very good, safe, fine and dignified treatment. Then the sick person's wish to be allowed to be at home has been met, and the wishes of the relatives have also been met in this way. So I've had the pleasure of visiting Havstein Hospital in Trondheim, which is a nursing home with a palliative unit created in collaboration between the cancer department at St. Olav's Hospital and this municipal hospital, and experienced the same thing, that many patients there have expressed that they were very happy to get out of the hospital, but did not feel it desirable to live at home. As a result, they have been treated in an establishment that is a place between hospitals and homes. I also recently experienced that a close friend died in a hospital. The problem was long linked to whether it was possible to rescue the patient. The patient was put in the ventilator, but then it turned out it didn't work. This required disconnection from the respirator, and then it was natural that the palliative treatment was given at the hospital. The family of the dying one was also very pleased with that. The most important thing about this is to say that what we have to be most concerned about, is to make sure that they are involved, the sick and their relatives, have to be allowed to choose where you want to spend the last time. Then it must be the health care job to set up with such good professional help that it can happen safely, properly and properly. The two supervisors we have now made about palliative treatment in Norway – I am very pleased that the representative Davøy mentioned one of them – show that, first of all, the sick person has great freedom of choice and can choose to end lifelong treatment if he or she wants it. It's also the way that today we use drugs in such a way, and we know so much about it, that people can feel pretty sure that you can die without pain, without nausea, and without, for example. the motor turmoil associated with some cancers. We're willing to go a long way in using drugs, even though relieving by strong medication can lead to a slight shortening of the lives of some people. But with a perspective of relief, the technical guidelines for this are. I also think that what's important now is to strengthen this whole chain, and I'm very busy with two things. One is that the municipal offer is too bad. In the case of those who want to die at home, or at Havstein-like institutions, we have a job to do, and palliative treatment sites in the community health service are going to be an important part of the interaction reform. So let me write that down. The second is: I believe that the hospice movement and the work done by the Hospice Forum, and the fact that we have these types of fires in terms of palliative treatment in Norway, is good. That's very good. That is why I have also supported the Hospice Forum financially, so that they can do a job. I think it's nice if we both do things to take care of the hospice we have, and we like to get a few more. This does not mean that the public should discharge itself of responsibility, but the public can cooperate with more people to exercise that responsibility, so that the chain where people can make their choices is organised as far as possible and as best they can for individual choices. It will be my and the government's lead in further work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e807	I am very pleased with the statements of the Council of State, and I think it answered very well what I argued for, that this is a both-and-and not a either-or, so that's not for the reason I asked for the word. It is in the opinion of the Committee that, on the basis of the opinion of the Medical Association, a development should have been seen in Denmark where the development of hospice should have taken place at the expense of the general level of palliative care in Danish health care. I have not seen either from the Lege Association or any other source that this is documented, and I find it very difficult to believe that it actually keeps going. But since the representatives of the government parties in the Committee have used this as a basis for their reservation and scepticism against going further on the hospice road, my question is: Could the Council of State consider giving its professional bodies the task of obtaining an assessment of the situation in Denmark, so that there will be a real comparison between Denmark and Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e814	It sounds interesting to do so, because I am very concerned that it is a quite obvious task for the public health services in Norway to ensure that they have diversity and a good overall offer in terms of palliative treatment. I believe that this is actually an area where there has been very much positive over the past few years, for example. got the patient I visited at Telemark, who got to die at home, advanced pain treatment in her own home, which we probably would have defined as a regional hospital task a few years ago. But we have to be careful, of course, when we are now concerned about, for example. the hospice movement, that it does not lead to a discharge, that the public withdraws. I don't think anyone really means that. And if the Danes have had some experience in this area, I would say that any debate is based on knowing as much as possible on the basis of the debate, so that we can look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e819	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the article – I agree with everything that was said there. This shows that the government places great emphasis on getting a good palliative offer in the next few years. There are several actors who want to establish the hospice, but do not get the opportunity today. That's because of this with funding, and that they have to get contracts to run. What I would like to ask about then is, how will the Council of State ensure that they can have the opportunity to offer their services for the benefit of patients? And the second question: how will he provide a comprehensive funding that could lead to palliative care in and near the home being offered in all municipalities, if there is not a state-wide funding on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e826	I believe that the financial arrangements are very important to get the right effects. But my impression is that there is something around the community health service that is not assessed on the basis of such a traditional budgetary analysis, it is the priority of helping those people who are in a palliative situation and who want to live at home. That's my impression, and then there's probably an exception to that rule. After all, we have a government budget subsidy scheme for relief and care at the end of life. That post was strengthened by 15 million. kr this year, and in this context, both the competent measures are eligible for grants and the establishment of places. In addition, the establishment of private places in given contexts may also receive grants. So there is no refusal from the Government to contribute to this, so this will be my main response in relation to how to get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e833	In the 2007 care notification, the Christian People's Party proposed that we should have our own funding system linked to the hospice. We did not get a majority for that, so we were very happy when we got in place in agreement with the Government that the incentive allowance for nursing homes and nursing homes could also be used. So my simple question to the Council of State is whether he believes that the municipalities are well-informed about this, whether he knows whether the municipalities are also using hospice, or whether they are in a situation where you are desperately in need of several hospitals, which means that you are not actually able to use this subsidy for the development of hospice places, which we all agree today that we have to get more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e838	After that grant scheme came into place, there are not so many new sick places, because there is a inertia in the application and approval and construction system. But my impression is that this occupies the municipalities, and there is some positive development in the sense that from 2006 to 2008, i.e. the two years, there were 57 more pure palliative beds in Norway. So you can discuss whether it's much or little, but at least it shows that evolution is going in the right direction. What's going to be a very important part of the interaction reform is the construction of what's called the local medical centre, i.e. several municipal treatment beds before, instead of and after hospitals. In this context, we also see the need for palliative beds as a very important part, i.e. a municipal health centre with greater professionalism than what we know today as hospitals, which is a place between hospitals and hospitals, but which is a clear municipal responsibility in a new, expanded municipal everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e843	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e848	For dying people a worthy and secure end to life is important. The last few years have seen the launch of relief and palliative units in several municipalities. In addition, there are offers in several hospitals. Only in my county, Telemark, have two such departments started up during the last year, both in Porsground, where I come from, and in Ski. Here, the relief units have developed good professional environments, where staff constantly develop their skills, including: in the treatment of cancer. In addition, there is good professional cooperation between municipalities and hospitals across the municipalities and between municipalities and hospitals and the development of competences in the field of relieving treatment. The Labour Party welcomes the formation of municipal services to provide a decent and safe end to life. A dignified and secure end of life is important to patients, but it is also important to the relatives. It is therefore hope that several municipalities will start relieving and palliative units in the future when we see how well it has worked so far in the municipalities and hospitals that have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e855	The Progress Party has promoted this important proposal because we believe it is a neglected area and that it is important to focus on palliative care and care in the years to come. So this proposal is not about death help, it is about getting a decent end by alleviating pain and getting good care in a good frame. I have to say it is frightening to see how some representatives use the opportunity to expose themselves by tracing the whole of the debate, and addressing a topic that is not debated today. What was taken up and voted on at the Country Meeting of the Progress Party was a proposal that would affect a very small number of people. It is not a proposal we are debating today, and it is not a proposal that the Progress Party will be promoting in the near future. Today’s proposal is about all those — perhaps 15 000 — who every day need relief and care to bring a worthwhile end to life. And that's what we have to focus on. There are no parties, except the Advance Party, which today do enough to facilitate it. No one is going in to support the projects that we are proposing, with the establishment of the hospice. And no one is suggesting that there should be an overall state funding, that captures the opportunity to get care, whether it's in hospitals, in a hospital, in a hospital, in the home, or in a hospice. So the matter is not about death help, but about help to live the last part of life in a dignified way, together with family, professionals and in a worthy framework. It should all be focused on today, because it is an important matter. It's the most important thing. That is what most people in this need need need to be assured. And it's not sure if we're not willing to deliver what needs to be done. If anyone is interested in taking a debate on active death aid, then I think they should promote such a case for the Storting, but that is certainly not what this matter is about. We attach great importance to strengthening care, care and relief to all those who need it, and that should be respected, not being razed on, as we have experienced here today. I think it's a shame to be accused of something that neither I nor anyone in the party has any thoughts about. We have no idea that active death aid should be used extensively. It's very few. And it's not about using enough capacity or any available means to alleviate it, but the small number that it's about in the national meeting decision is a completely different matter and a completely different debate, which should be taken somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e868	First, and that I want to pay great attention to: I really appreciated the article from the Council of State. Because that's what this is all about: it's about several thousand people maybe not getting the care that we all want to be there in the final phase of life. I am also impressed by the people who are working with palliative care today. They are also a little forgotten in this debate. That's why I find it a little sad – and that's why I allowed myself to speak – that a representative who is respected in many contexts, and who is also a doctor of profession, behaves the way from the pulpit to which we witnessed today. And when this representative additionally raids the way he does, and moves the focus away from these people who actually need help, it's even worse. Because that's what the representative Ballo actually did, he shifted his focus away from what everyone else in this room is concerned about, i.e. palliative care for people. And it's serious. When the representative of Ballo, in addition, allows himself to present it as if the Progress Party had been dealing with a bench proposal at his national meeting, the representative of Ballo would like to come to me, and he would like to know how long I have worked on this matter as chairman of the Programme Committee. That is why at our national meeting there was also a decision of principle, not a decision in an action programme. For our national meeting was also shared. So what we've done here is a principle decision. We want to have a debate. And we are fully aware that once we have made such a principle decision, we must have major investigations and delimitation, if such a proposal is to be put into practice. But I record that someone doesn't want to take that debate, and uses alternate arguments to meet a necessary and important debate. I think that is sad, but I have full respect for what the Council of State said in its statement, and that is what is the intention behind the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e878	It is a serious debate we are taking from the Chair today, and I think that, in fact, the Progress Party must be able to take responsibility for its own decisions. There is no doubt that when we talk about dying people today, and that we are going to give them better care, one cannot simply say that the decision taken by the Progress Party at the national meeting has no relevance. Vigdis Giltun says that the proposal is not about death help. It is true that the proposal for hospice is not about that. It's about relieving treatment. But at the same time, I assume that the Advance Party believes that health professionals will have the right to contribute to the end of a life. At least I hope you have not intended to give health professionals a duty to this. It is in hospice that very many dying people would want to end their lives, and then it is most relevant in a discussion about hospice to also include a proposal from the Progress Party on how you think some people are going to end their lives. I just want to end by saying – which perhaps everyone could agree on – that we should actually be in favour of an active life support guarantee rather than introducing active death aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e887	I heard with interest what Vigdis Giltun said, and then what Per Sandberg said. After all, the Progress Party must take responsibility for its own decisions. It is not that when the Progress Party adopts something that it is unpleasant to have to discuss in public space, they will like to demand that others do not go into that debate. So Per Sandberg does it in such a way that he wants you to dry up the debate. I have been in debate with the Progress Party in News 18 three days ago, and I am taking this debate today, and I am going to meet the Progress Party tomorrow in a programme on the radio. Of course we should take that debate. This isn't a roller coaster. I think of this as very serious. I see it as monstrous. I don't need to roll over it. But if Per Sandberg isn't aware that the group we're talking about here is the group that wants to apply to the hospice, then Per Sandberg has to start getting involved in the case. Because I hope Per Sandberg doesn't think it's not about that group, that it's about people who are healthier. Maybe it's about young people, and maybe it's about children, as you've experienced in the Netherlands. So Per Sandberg explains that this hasn't happened as a result of a bench proposal. He describes that instead it has happened as a consequence of a process in which it is actually thought through. So it's going to make things better. It might have been mitigating if it was not thought out, so you could have gone back afterwards and said that, of course, we should not go further with this. But the Progress Party must, of course, take responsibility for the decisions it makes. It is clear that when the population hears the Progress Party in the future talk about the group going into the hospice, and that they need to be strengthened, the Progress Party cannot fail at the same time to facilitate the opening up of several of them to be killed. In fact, when making that kind of decision, the party of progress has to stand up and say that we have adopted it, and that is how we intend to do it. You can't start saying, it was an unpleasant decision, and when you start discussing it, we don't want to go into it -- not here, and not now. We have to decide when to discuss it. This is not how the public debate works, this is not how democracy works, and the Progress Party must take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e902	It is probably a coincidence in time that we are discussing this proposal for a representative at the same time as the public debate boils down because of the principle decision that Per Sandberg referred to. But I must say that it would have been alarming if it had not been affected in this debate in Stortinget. It was then necessary to believe that the Stortinget is both deaf and blind, and is unable to capture the debate that has just started through the Per Sandberg principle decision. I can't believe that the Progress Party has any reason to reproach others for us taking up that debate, and at least not in the same breath as you accuse others of not wanting to go into the debate. I have seen it as a decision of principle, and it is in the true sense of the word a radical decision, that is. a decision that goes to the root and pulls it up. By the root I mean the basic idea that human life has the same dignity no matter what state it is in, the same value and the same requirement for respect. The reason why I'm in charge, for example. is a fundamental opponent of the death penalty, is that I believe it is far beyond society's decision-making competence to make such a radical decision. But it also means to me that it is beyond my own decision-making competence to dwell on my own life. Nobody asked me for advice when I was born, and I assume that most people in this room are in the same situation. It means that I don't see any reason why anyone should ask me when I want to die, simply because it's about the foundation of being human at all and being able to choose anything. At the moment you kill a person, there is no longer any right of self-determination. I still think it is shocking that a political party can take such a fundamental principle decision on such a spin-off basis, and then say that we will have to come back to how we should organise this in practice, how many it should cover, and under what circumstances. Then one has developed into a completely impossible situation. I sincerely hope that those who ended up in a minority in the vote at the national meeting of the Progress Party will not give up the fight in terms of turning the party upside down. There's something called turning around in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e917	It is a pleasure to be shown as much consideration by the representative of Wage as we are at this moment. I say a thousand thanks for that. But it was the statements from our dear Ballo now that made me have to go to this pulpit today. It's amazing to experience an SV that's more conservative than the pope. We experience an SV representative who does not at all want to give his colleagues on Stortinget a small degree of respect, which is not at all related to the matter, and who starts to discuss a completely different case in principle. The proposal we are discussing here today will concern many thousands of people if it is to be adopted. Then it makes no sense to turn the whole debate over to a topic that has nothing to do with the matter at all. But now that the debate has been distorted, I have to say that the proposal adopted at the national meeting is not about deficiencies in the health care system or in the care of the elderly. For those affected, even the best care is not an alternative. Active death aid is for those who are dying, and all the world's medical aid cannot save. Then it doesn't make sense that you want to promote a scare propaganda about this. So it's going to be circa. 70 pst. the population is in favour of this proposal. Then you could think of that as 70 pst. Of the population are idiots, but it's a very bad voter argument. For those who boast so much of the state of the Norwegian health system today, I want to quote the director Levi Fragll from the Association Court to a worthy death. In a chronicle in the Evening Post on April 29, he wrote the following about what is happening today: ‘An elderly man with cancer and a debilitating muscle disease has packed the suitcase and is required to travel to Switzerland in a wheelchair for death assistance. A young man with cancer has got a gun. A woman with MS in her ‘best age’ put her hope in a hedge in the closet as long as she could use her hands to raise her weapon. She ended her life with an overdose of heroin, purchased by friends at Plata in Oslo. As anesthesia nurse, she knew what to do. Do it yourself-handbooks are purchased via the Internet: garbage bags over the head and gas containers with helium are what the police and relatives find when they break in." This is the state today. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e935	The President is asking you to keep your speaking time. The President is also uncertain as to whether 'idiots' are a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e940	Death is a part of life. He's always been. Maybe we've become a society where we kind of don't accept that we're all going to die. The most natural thing about everything is that we're going to die. The starting point for the hospice case is that we should be able to take care of each one that is in a state of health where one cannot recover. We need a pain-relieving treatment. There's a lot of people talking about Hippocrates' play. Now we can probably relieve 100 pst. There's something we're all going to go in for. We're gonna get a worthy death. I am so old that I have experienced that my father died. We were in exactly this situation: should we contribute to life-prolonging treatment? After discussing this with professionals and seeing that there was no way back, it was death that was around the next corner, we were some, and we could take a stand with my father. It seemed to me to be a worthy death. For this, with active death help, which is now coming up: there is a difference between a sincere desire to die in a proper way and a deep sense of being burdened – for that question also arises. To feel that you are at the burden of someone when you've lived a long life, and you've been raising your kids standing around your sickbed, must be an unlikely sad situation to come in. What should it be like for these who are in such beds? What confidence should they have in the legends when they know that, as they see in white coats around, they can become involved in active death aid? There must be a special hopeless situation. I think it will also affect particularly weak groups, who will feel marginalised. At least that kind of society won't help us in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e953	Vigdis Giltun has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e956	What could have been interesting to know is why the representatives in the Chamber will not be included in the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter we are dealing with today – not in a matter that we do not have at all to deal with, and which we may not be able to deal with. In this case, we propose what we all agree on: giving better palliative care to those who need it. So care and care – that's what this is all about. We have two concrete proposals on how to proceed with a better offer. No one's in on it. It might have been interesting if someone had considered why no one is involved. There is no contradiction between wanting to have it all, the very best care in the final phase of life, and the principle decision taken at the Country Meeting of the Advance Party. There is no one in the Progress Party who does not want to strengthen the palliative care so that it becomes the best. That is why we have specific proposals on how this can be done. There should be someone interested in bringing alternatives, because it hasn't come today. Solvency Horne had taken over the president's seat here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e967	I have not taken the floor before in the debate, and I sat for a long time wondering if I should. First, I want to give the Council of State a great deal of praise for the post he made. He said something about how it should be, and how it is, in many places around our country when it comes to a person's last days. I have also been allowed to follow many people at home as a parish priest. I've been allowed to come along, see my home health care come and go – follow people until they pull their last suck. I have also been given hospital treatment many times. That is why this debate is about something other than what Mr Giltun is talking about, namely whether the money should follow the patients or not. This debate is about what life is for. It's about something far more than choosing, something far more than freedom of choice. It's about what a human being is. It's about human value, no matter what you are or how you are. Not least, it's about setting up for each other. So when people experience futility, our answer should not be: it's okay that you take your life, or, it's okay that you get assistance to take your life. Then our answer is to dare go in and meet the futility that people know about. Meeting people in this phase of life is about taking steps with a whole and full human being to help it get into a right relationship, both to itself, to their fellow human beings and possibly to their god, if they were to have one. It's the concern of the end of life at the beginning: to stand up and be present for people who are going to leave this world, leave a life in which they love and are happy, or from which they hate and want to get out quickly – to stand up, be there and join them in the last steps. That's the challenge of all of us standing around.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e978	This case has taken a strange turn, but I will not deny that it was also expected that these comments would come. It's just a few little things I want to point out. First, to the representative Gunvald Ludvigsen. I think it was a little strange that the criticism that was made from this pulpit should come from the left. I'll tell a little story to the representative Ludvigsen. For approx. A month ago I was in a TV debate, in a TV show called 'This Night' in the NRK. There I had a counter-debatetant, who was the leader of Young Left. In that debate, we discussed active death aid. The undersigned pointed out that he was an opponent of active death aid. The representative from Young Left then pointed out that the representative of Nesvik could not have gotten involved in that matter, which was actually what it was about. That was the fact that it was Young Left's view. So maybe the Left-Representative Gunvald Ludvigsen will talk a little bit to his youth organisation and ask what has changed in that regard. Let's hope for one thing -- that we spend every day in everything we do in health to try to find relief for those people who are so hurt in the final phase of life that they ask for help to end it. Let's make sure that we have good deals in the most difficult phase they have. Let's hope – and I think everyone hopes – that the job we're doing will be so good that the whole debate will disappear because you get help in the phase that makes you think about ending your life. I think it's a little bit important to have that piece with you, too. I'm going to work every day, as long as I'm on health policy, just to try to help, so no one should have these thoughts. It's my job as a politician. I have to stand for that every day. Then it is important that we look at the offers and measures we offer to people in the final phase of life. This hospice proposal is just one of many measures to try to help out so that more people get the care that the representative Schjélaa had, where someone can be with them and follow them out of life. I hope that at least you have respect for the fact that most of us actually want to work so that people don't get these thoughts. That's at least my problem – and I'm still going to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e994	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e998	Valtun called for our vision. Well, she'll find that in the setting. We are in favour of the Government providing its own state funding for palliative care, where the money follows the patient. It makes visible that we want to strengthen this field. There can be no doubt about that. So until that representative Fredriksen said that this is about those who all the world's medical aid can't save. We're all going to get into that situation sooner or later. At some point we're going to die – I'm going to die, and Jan-Henrik Fredriksen is going to die too. So at some point it will be that all the world's medical assistance cannot save us – but that is not an argument for killing us! We have had a case in Norway about active death aid, where Sandsdalen was convicted. So health professionals come in afterwards and say that this woman we could have done a lot for – but the Sandsdalen was not up to date! We experience the same thing as with Levi Fragll: you get so focused on helping patients die, that you actually don't get concerned that you could have helped them a better life. And it's really pretty awful to listen to. I think Levi Fragll's thoughts about this are not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1007	I just want to replicate to the representative Nesvik that I represent the left. The Left too has recently had a national meeting, but we did not at all take a national decision on active death aid. That there may be different opinions in our organization, I don't ignore it, but I want to repeat: I represent the Left of the Storting and am elected to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1012	Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1015	I am really quite concerned that it is the young people – as I understand it – both in the Progress Party and also in the Young Left – that we now hear, who have initiated this debate. My big question is then whether we adults are unable to pass on to the young today that it is possible to live with death, yes, that death is part of life. I don't agree with Fredriksen when he talks about horror propaganda. I don't think politicians – more than anyone – need to talk about how bad it is to die, and come with the bad and difficult stories. Rather – at least as politicians – we must ensure that every day we contribute to our society’s death without pain and worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1022	My point is in many ways the same as the representative Davøy now had. I think it's a very important signal both to us politicians and to the health authorities that so many of the population in different surveys are speaking positively about active death help. I choose to look at it as an expression that people know little about what healthcare can do. Of course, death is something we fear, something we are afraid of – especially the painful death, which we have all probably heard stories about. That's why I'm so concerned that the debate that we're having now also gives us an opportunity to tell the health care community can now go very far to help you. To deal with pain, nausea and motor unrest, we have good drugs, and we use them. If necessary, they are used to such an extent that, in a soothing context, we can also bring people into coma. So you don't have to fear that death will be marked by severe pain. Nor is it the case that, in the final phase of life, we are deprived of our right to decide for ourselves what treatment we are going to be subjected to. It is made clear through professional guidance from the Health Directorate that even in the final phase of life, it is possible to decide whether to continue life-long treatment. You can choose to finish the antibiotic treatment. You can choose to end the cell toxic treatment. You can choose to end artificial nutrition, artificial fluid supply. You can, as a matter of fact, control what's going to happen to one in the final phase of life. If you choose, for example: terminating the nutrition or fluid supply is a dramatic choice. Then the health service will be there to alleviate the discomfort you can get from such a choice. I think it's very important both that we work hard every day to make the health care system the way I'm describing it, and that people know something about this, so that what we hear stories about -- people planning their own suicide -- at least doesn't happen because you fear the painful death. Fortunately, the quality of health services in Norway is such that it is possible to contribute to the recent absence of pain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1033	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1036	The representative Fredriksen referred to polls to show 70 pst. the digestion of active death help. Those polls are classic examples of just getting the answers you're asking for. If you look at how the question options are designed, you will see that they are carefully designed to produce exactly those digits. Those who are behind the investigation and order it are an ideological stakeholder organisation for one general purpose, namely to have the legislation in place for this purpose. However, what is a cross of thought is that there is an obvious disparity between premise and conclusion, because the premise for fighting for this is autonomy, the individual’s right to decide over his or her own life — and to cancel his or her own life. At the same time, the proposal states that this should only be done in extreme exceptional cases and after consideration by two doctors. The two things aren't hanging out! The proposal is paternalism, and the premises are autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1043	I don't know. 10 today we started a debate about a happy event, about the beginning of life. It was a very good debate, where it was very much about safety and a decent birth care – security at all stages. But also there we came up with one of the same issues that we're discussing now, in relation to life. The same party that now argues for active death aid then argued for a more liberal abortion law. And what we got to read, at the latest yesterday in our country, is scary. An article said that the number of children born with Down syndrome in Denmark decreased from 66 to 20 after changing the abortion legislation. Now, when we're in a debate about a decent end to life – that is, the second part, where we're going to have a good offer, and where we're going to have life-help instead of death-help – it's the same problem that comes up again, that the state should be able to go in and give active death-help in relation to a life that in a way no longer appears to be worthy of life. When we're at the slide there – where is the slide to end, where is the limit to go if you first open up? That's the big ethical dilemma. Everyone can probably imagine one case where you could say that it would have been best in that case, but where is that limit to be set – if we first go beyond that limit given that life is inviolable? I think it's sad, really, that the party that lifts up and is – I think – completely sincerely concerned with strengthening the hospice movement in Norway, which I very much agree with, makes itself the spokesman for the opposite of human dignity, the opposite of the life aid that the hospice movement stands for, just active death aid. I don't think that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1052	I am very uncertain as to whether the post that the representative Battle Violence Vedum held here right now actually holds at all. He referred to the previous debate on the pregnancy notification. There was no debate on abortion, there was a debate on whether ultrasonics could be taken. I expect that the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum does not necessarily see a connection between taking ultrasound and having an abortion. There must be limits. We have ultrasound today. Ultrasound is also heard in the 12th week of pregnancy in the private sector. So there must be limits to derailing the debate, which the representative Vedum has been able to do here. I hope that the representative will think about it in the next debate, that he will at least stick to the matter. In the previous case, you talked about ultrasound, you didn't talk about abortion at all. Because if the representative Vedum thought and said he was right, I look forward to this government immediately promoting a proposal that prohibits ultrasound in Norway. I'm assuming the representative hasn't thought of it. So to the other thing. The Progress Party has made two proposals – they stand in the position – on the state funding of hospice. I meant to hear that the representative Ballo from this pulpit said that it was for him – but in the setting you are against. I almost have to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, even though he has spent his speaking time dissuading others: will you vote in favour of these proposals that lie here? Because as it stands in the setting, at least you are, and that is what I am dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1059	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3213]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1077	While several thousand addicts are in line for treatment, the Salvation Army must shut down the institution's door as a result of health south-east not buying enough space. After this, the Salvation Army no longer has any agreements with Health South-East related to the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts. Kimerud Foundation has reduced the number of places from 21 to 6 in the last year due to not having an agreement last year. Then they delivered the offer 39 minutes late. In 2009 they delivered within the deadline, but did not get an agreement with Health Southeast. Soon all the competence and experience built up in these institutions over many decades has been lost. This is a paradox when about 4,000 drug addicts are in line. The waiting time is 73 days – an increase of three days from the previous year. In Health South-East has increased the waiting time even more, by nine days. Record many experienced deadline breaks – a whole 23 pst. of those waiting for treatment — i.e. that they are not treated within the time limit set. Let me say that the Christian People's Party is concerned that treatment provision for drug addicts should be sound and of good quality. Neither in private nor in public services, quality can be taken for granted. It must be measured and requested. At the same time, it is essential to provide a wide range of treatment services. Drug users are different. It is not possible or right to align the offers. Non-profit institutions contributing to diversity. Historically, they have been central to the development of the services of society’s most vulnerable. The Christian People's Party believes it has a value to continue this tradition. Private non-profit institutions are important players in the provision of drug treatment and must and should be so in the future. We see them as fully corrective to public services. In order for private, ideal drug treatment services to play such a role, there must be at the bottom a political will for them to remain. There has therefore been an unfortunate signal, I believe, when the government has so much asked regional health companies to use public services first and foremost. However, regional health firms have gone beyond that — and they have been allowed to go beyond that. They have built up new treatment services to replace those offered by private ideal actors at the same time. I can mention LAR treatment in Health West, I can mention detoxification in Health South-East, and I can mention several institutions that may have only a few places. They're good enough quality. They must be equally fully liquidated because the public is now to take over and expand the offer. It cannot be easy for non-profit institutions operating drug treatment to experience the creation of public offers that push out established actors — those who start drug treatment for the most vulnerable and who can also document and show good results. Then to the legislation and practices that are being implemented. Regional health establishments have concluded contracts with private non-profit institutions after bidding rounds, despite the fact that there is room for this to be done under the legislation. Public acquisitions are based on competition, but competition is not always an appropriate instrument. Health and care services are different from other services, I believe, because of the need to provide good and predictable services to vulnerable groups. The EEA Agreement refers to health and care services as so-called unpriority services. It implies that government does not have to tender for such services. Even where the EEA Agreement applies, Norwegian authorities are relatively free to choose co-contracting under EEA law, i.e. choose with whom the contract is to be concluded directly. The fact that a contract is to be awarded needs to be made known in such a way that potential stakeholders can report. The selection of co-contractors must be based on published criteria in accordance with a non-discriminatory procedure and it must be possible to have the decisions taken in the process legally tested. That is okay, but there is reason to believe that the Norwegian rules on public procurement restrict the freedom of action of the authorities more than the EEA Agreement requires. It may also be worth noting that the Government sees that it is possible to support some organisations operating drug care, for example. through the allocation they have given to the Church's City Mission in Oslo. They're going to receive $60 million. DKK over two years to improve the services in the most vulnerable areas of Oslo in cooperation with Health South-East and the Municipality of Oslo. This is positive, but it also shows that the Government can support ideal offers without extensive competitive systems – at any time. The use of tenders means that individual institutions do not have contracts. These are then left with little possibilities for further operation. These institutions have had to use large resources to design and operate an offer. This is demanding, especially for small institutions with a small staff. This year, tendering rounds have been carried out in the drug sector in all four regional health establishments. These were run so to speak parallel. Parallel bidding rounds do not allow an institution to submit multiple offers in the same venues because the tenders must have a so-called grace period for a longer period. We have been informed by some of the non-profit institutions. In other words, they are cut off from entering more than one offer at a time. In the worst case, an actor can thus end up without an agreement. I am interested in hearing the extent to which the Council of State has provided for good and predictable conditions for non-profit institutions operating drug treatment. So a little bit about the length of the agreements. It's varying, but absolutely everyone, as I've read them, is over a relatively short period of time. Although some of them this year have been over a slightly longer period, it is equally often just a few years of operation, possibly with a one-year extension. This hampers the operation of these institutions, in particular with regard to investment in buildings and in research and development. This also prevents institutions from improving the quality of treatment, because you don't know what's going on around the next turn. Active policies in this area indicate signals to enter into long-term operational agreements. It is a crossroads of thought that in other areas where it is not about people, for example. in the case of housing in some municipalities, contracts lasting up to 10 years may be obtained, while in the health sector such long-term contracts cannot be obtained. As far as I am aware, it was not negotiated in the tendering process in Health Nord at all. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain whether that is actually the case. Can any regional health companies themselves decide this? There's some confusion about this. It is clear that not all institutions that wish to do so can agree with a regional health enterprise. This, of course, must be seen in the context of need and quality. When the Government knows that the needs are far greater than current capacity can cover, the Government should consider increasing capacity. This can be done quickly, as there is availability in non-profit drug institutions. Finally, it appears unclear whether the tendering procedures of regional health establishments have been managed overall to ensure orderly processes. So to the question of the interpellation: What action will the Council of State take to ensure that non-profit institutions have a good framework and predictability of operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1113	Let me start by saying that I am pleased with the commitment that the representative Davøy shows to drug addicts and their situation. This is a group of people who for too many years have not received the attention and confidence they need. I can assure the representative Davøy that the drug field in general and the situation of drug addicts in particular is a high priority area in the Government and in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It is important to stress the important role of private institutions in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. In 2007, the private sector accounted for about two thirds of the total capacity before day-to-day treatment, cf. SAMDATA sector drug treatment report. These are private individuals who have contracts for treatment places with regional health care establishments. During the 2004 drug reform, regional health businesses took over the responsibility for all treatment of drug addicts. This means that they entered into all of the 40 or so agreements that the county councils had with the private actors. Some agreements were concluded at the same time as the reform was implemented. The Ministry allowed regional health establishments to extend the contracts by one year so that they could plan procurement processes in line with the public procurement legislation. For the other agreements, which lasted beyond 2004, there was considerable variation in duration. These conditions led to a lack of «accommodation» of the agreements of regional health establishments with private, in time. The regional health establishments have reported on the status of newly concluded contracts to be concluded in the near future. Health Nord has recently carried out an acquisition process that means the purchase of services for 70 million. kr from private commercial operators. There were no non-profit institutions that could offer multidisciplinary specialised treatment. These agreements run over two years with the possibility of a one-year extension. Health Mid-Norway today has agreements with three private, non-profit enterprises. Two of these agreements expire next summer, and one agreement expires on 1 July this year. The latter has recently been renegotiated for four years. During 2010, a new limited procurement process will be implemented, with the purchase of services from private, non-profit actors in line with the exemptions provided for in the procurement legislation. Health West has also been through an acquisition process with NPISHs to complement its offer. They have used the rule of exception, which allows only for the purchase of services from NPISHs. The agreements only expire in 2010, i.e.: as long as the other agreements in the region. The reason is that after 2010, an overall procurement process will be carried out with private actors across the Western Health Region. Health South-East has done the same thing as Health West and purchased services from private, ideal suppliers for 60 million. kr now this year. This is also in accordance with the exemption provision. It is at best a misunderstanding going out and going here, because when you claim that Hope's door has not been contracted this year because the Government has led almost a rigid tendering policy, and that you should have used the exception, it is therefore the exception that has been used in the process in which Hope's door was not renewed its contract. What is the issue related to the door of Hope is not the use of a contractual clause, but that one was to buy 60 million kroner. NOK 90 million was offered. kr. This would have to be chosen from among the private, non-profit actors. In that option, hope did not reach the door of hope. So I believe that there is a very good reason to have a discussion about this, when the Christian People's Party and the representative Davøy can think that we buy too little. However, the reason why the door of hope has not been contracted is not that one has had a tender and has not used the derogation. The exception was used, and they didn't reach. It is important to say that this acquisition comes in addition to the existing agreements that Health South-East already has with a number of private individuals. Health South-East has not taken a decision on whether to extend the existing agreements after the end of 2010 or to terminate them in order to make an overall acquisition for the whole region. The overview, which I have now reviewed, of regional health firms shows that they have different timetables for making acquisitions in the drug field. Common to Health West and Health South-East is that they plan overall procurement processes for the whole health region of the drug field. Taking into account the private, non-profit institutions involved, it is important to take into account, in this context, the existing legislation on public acquisitions. Of course, the Government Acquisitions Code also applies to purchases from non-profit institutions for health and care. The contracting entity is not obliged to comply with Parts II or III of the Regulation, but the essential requirements of Part I of the Acquisition Regulation on non-discrimination and competition apply in any case. Nor may the term of the contract be extended beyond the scope of the legislation. What happens in practice, for example, is: That then Health south-east spent 60 million. kr, contact was made with a number of private, non-profit institutions that were known to be interested in delivering. Then there are transparent competition rules with emphasis on quality and price – more emphasis on quality than price. Then you asked for an offer. You also posted this on the website of Health South-East, that you were now buying from a private, ideal. And then there were negotiations with various private, non-profit organisations and institutions, and from what they chose, which – as I said – did not reach the door of hope. I believe that to the extent that a critical discussion is going to be open here, I would say, what about the good private institutions that are not ideal and that we shut out of competition by using the exception rule. That, I think, is almost a more difficult debate than defending the way Health South-East has done exactly this purchase. The representative Davøy asks what measures I want to take to ensure appropriate agreements with non-profit institutions, and I think that is very important. It is, as you know, the responsibility of regional health businesses to ensure that the population in their health region is provided with the healthcare they need and require. This means, in principle, that it is up to health businesses to assess what services they need to buy from private suppliers – commercial and non-profit. I am informed that regional health companies have merged in a work aimed at harmonising agreements for the purchase of all types of healthcare. In this work, they shall also assess whether there is a basis for bringing together procurement processes in all health establishments in the drug field, in order to avoid any unfortunate coincidence of acquisition times. I believe that this is an action that will have meaning, and I have been very committed to being clear to regional health companies in relation to being good partners, and we are going to have good agreements. We're going to have the same policy as the buyer, whether you buy in the north, in the west, in the middle or in the south-east. That means that we need to have cooperation between regional health companies, so that we can facilitate that what we do is done in a proper and proper way. So we can always discuss here in the Chamber if we buy enough -- that's a certain political disagreement. I believe that regional health companies will make use of an acquisition process that, as a whole, ensures the best possible offer to patients, and where the interests of private, commercial suppliers are also taken care of, but not least those that are close to my heart, private, ideal suppliers. In the end, the cooperation that is established with the Church's City Mission in Oslo, we managed to achieve this through very clear project organisation for two years. But there will also be the same situation, that it needs to be implemented in line with the law on public acquisitions, which of course applies to this project as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1161	I thank the Council of State for a full answer. It is true that Health South-East, as I also mentioned, has gone to a direct acquisition this year. I think it is positive that you can go to direct acquisitions in the way it is done, of course within the regulatory framework. In the past, we have seen that this has not been used, at least not to the extent that it is now done. I think it is positive, while we should not forget that this came after Health Southeast had first had another tender. After that round, it was my impression that some of the private institutions were reunited with both anxiety and intransigence, and also that there are completely different bidding rounds within the different regional health establishments – perhaps also quite different criteria related to time aspect, quality requirements, etc. As I see it, I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State, namely that we should have a common policy across the country to acquire and light out, and how to do it to the private, ideals. But I have to say that rarely has there been an area in the health sector where we have received so many enquiries, over so long, from institutions that are very concerned, and that have difficulty applying for the places that they want to run, precisely because there have been uncertainties for many years. We've been criticizing the government for years because they didn't want to intervene in this. I hope that the Health and Welfare Council here has given the answer, in fact, shows that he has now taken a lot more steps and wants to do this more comprehensively than we have seen from the Government until now. I would very much like to have it confirmed by the Council of State once again. Then this is very positive. At the same time, of course, I am still concerned about institutions like Hope's door and others who did not reach, but who have actually worked for many years and can document effect. But here I expect the Council of State to be sure to choose what is the best quality. In any case, that's what the government here is strongly specifying. But we need greater predictability, because we can't have it so that we replace third or fourth institutions that have run well every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1172	The representative Davøy says that she has been criticising the Government for many years to make purchases in the wrong way. It can't be that many years. The previous government bought according to exactly the same legislation, so you might mix a little, because it has been a government shift over the years the legislation has worked. I think it's important to say that roughly there are four ways we can make a purchase. We have what is called direct purchases. But what's the challenge of direct purchase is that there has to be a consensus that there is actually only one supplier. For example, government purchases: art by direct purchase. It's just one artist who can deliver what we're after, and then it's opening to buy directly. Then there is competition without prior notice. There is one exception, where one can probe the terrain and engage in dialogue with NPISHs. That is what has been done in Health Mid-Norway, Health West and Health South-East, especially now last year. Then there is competition with negotiations. That's what Health South-East did last year. There is also limited competition, where commercial operators can compete with and compete with private NPISHs. The last, most advanced, most demanding purchase order that we can use is tender. So far, we haven't made any special offers in the field. We've used the other forms of purchase. I think there has been surprisingly little criticism that we have not used any more tenders, because in that way we have closed out potential providers. Let me make it clear that regardless of whether we buy after one system or another, I am concerned that when we enter into a contract, we have to be a clean and good contracting partner. Of course, then I understand that the length of the contract is an important part of this. There it is to some extent a discretion, but not a 100 pst. I guess so. According to the legislation, if you are going to buy for a longer period than four years, it must, I understand that, in that case, be explained very well. So far, it has not been assessed that it is possible to buy e.g. interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment with a longer contract than four years. But four years is much better than one year and two years. I say at least that we have to go in the direction of having as much purchase as possible with the widest possible content of the contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1187	I think I'll start by saying that there's cross-political consensus about the need to bet more on the drug field. That is why we are in a period not only of economic escalation, but also of work on concrete measures that the Health and Welfare Committee has largely gathered on, such as the establishment of Rusakutt in Oslo. Where there is a need for greater capacity, more space, fewer deadline breaks, etc., it is important that the public assumes responsibility for building up, preventing time-limits, etc. From my county, I am familiar with the fact that Russ is a field of activity for Health Bergen, which, from 1 January of this year, has established a Department of Drug Medicine to work with, among others. cleaning up the deadlines and creating good interaction between the public health undertaking, private and local authorities. At the same time, there is an important theme that Laila Davøy addresses, because in a field such as the drug field, where the private makes up as much of the treatment offered as they do, good interaction between the public and the private is essential in order to maintain the predictability and long-termity of the offer given at all times. It may in part be that one must have a professional relationship with the institutions themselves, but above all it is not about the institutions as such, but about the offer they make, and the offer given to the patients. It's not about building down offers until you have built up something that is at least as good, and about taking care of skills, etc. There are many private, nonprofit organisations that we have a heart for, and that offer a very good offer that needs to be taken care of. For example, over 90 pst. of drug treatment sites in the Bergen area privately. Mountain clinics are one of the country's largest ideal actors in the drug field. The competences of such a strong professional environment must, of course, be played with and cared for by the public. As regards the purchase of drug treatment facilities in the private sector, as a general rule I believe it is quite right to distinguish between non-profit and commercial activities, and that as far as possible the ideals of the space of action provided by the derogation. There I will refer to the answer just given by the Council of State, which I think was very good. Then I see that the interpellant is also concentrating on 'ideal institutions', and I'm interpreting it so that we have a common approach to that distinction. The Labour Party also mentions this theme in its programme for the next period, 2009–2013, which states that, as far as possible, we will exempt NPISHs from child protection and care tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1200	What, of course, is special about this type of debate, namely the purchase of services whether it's private, commercial, as someone calls it, or private, ideal -- I don't see the big difference -- is the big problem that those who are going to buy, that is. the regional health establishments, as well as the purchase thereof, are suppliers and owners of their own institutions. Regional health establishments have chosen to organise themselves a little differently. Health Mid-Norway has, among other things: a self-employed drug addict; the others do not. But I have to say that what is most important, and what creates problems in many ways, is that what we are going to buy for is too little in relation to the need and in relation to what can be offered. That is what creates the great frustrations and debates in many ways. I have at least understood that the vast majority of the parties – yes, indeed all the parties – want to see the possibility of concluding more long-term agreements than we have now. In this regard, I will refer to the Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2008-2009. There are two different comments from the opposition and the government parties, but both have the same conclusion, namely that there must be more long-termity during the contract period. I can refer from the government parties' own note: «Quality and competence building must be seen as a long-term investment requiring long-term and predictable framework conditions.» There is enough reason to review the exact terms of the agreement. We've done it on some points. I think the Air ambulance has an agreement of six or eight years. So the possibility lies there. What has been used as an argument in the past is that the EEA Agreement regulates the duration of the contractual period. But we've done it on some points, and it's quite obvious that there's a reason to think about this a little bit more. I'm a little more concerned when I hear the introduction here today. We were told that almost everyone uses the exception rule. It's actually worrying because it leaves out a large group and a number of providers. What's going to have to be the problem is to go in and look at the content. It is of no interest to drug users to be treated, whether it is called private, commercial or private, non-profit-making. What's interesting is, do we get enough help? Are we being helped to get out of this shit? In terms of the type of quality criteria, we need to have a long-term perspective. We know that a number of institutions that haven't got a deal are fantastic. I want to mention the door of hope. I want to tell the representative Davøy that now we have a golden opportunity, and we have to work towards increasing the appropriations for the purchase of seats in the revised national budget that are now being treated in this house. That's where we have to put an effort, just so Health South-East can buy more places to give more people help, and also so that Health West, Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord can buy more places. That's our responsibility. The size is the granting authority, and then it's up to us. Then I have a recommendation to the Council of State to perhaps intensify the work of looking at instruments, on what basis and on what opportunities we have to increase the term of the agreement. It is quite obvious that regional health companies can be signalled that they should strive for a slightly longer contractual period than they have done today. It's clear that we're asking for more and more quality. We no longer only demand quantity, but we demand quality also in terms of buildings and staffing, and it takes time to build it up. Then it becomes a little remarkable that if you have a two-year agreement – a two-year agreement – and when you finally get to the quality level you want, you get the message: Sorry, you're too expensive, but we can't use you for the next term, and then you have to start building up again. We have to take this on board, and we have to put in place a better code. But I expect the Council of State to have plans, and I look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1222	I would like to record the thread where the previous speakers left it. I believe the fundamental challenge for the provision of treatment facilities for drug addicts is not in which labels are placed on institutions. The basic challenge lies in the fact that we operate with waiting times for treatment for this category, which is completely meaningless, simply because all concrete experience shows that drug addicts should be able to benefit from institutional treatment, it is entirely dependent on the existence of a positive motivation. And that motivation will rarely last for months in this category of patients, pending that you might be able to get an institutional space. The challenge lies simply in the fact that we do not prioritise this high enough, and therefore there are not enough qualitatively good places to buy. How to proceed in terms of purchasing procedures is an entirely secondary question. But I have to say that I basically agree with the Council of States that one cannot do so as to make an exception rule the main rule. The exemption provision is intended to be an exception because there are no good reasons why the general principles of public procurement cannot be practised in this field. The only question is whether good enough procedures are in place to define the criteria, and not only are concerned with price, but are concerned with quality and content and documented results. If tenders work poorly, they are due to the person who practises the tender and does not do enough work to define the criteria against which they are to be measured. I also think it's a blindtrack to start trying to make a fundamental distinction between so-called ideal and so-called commercial actors, simply because it's fundamentally unclear what 'ideal' means in this context. If it is in the form of the organisation, it is easy to disperse, for example. say, if something is organized as a foundation, it's per. definition ideal, irrespective of who makes the foundation. If, on the other hand, it is organised as a limited liability company, it is commercial regardless of who is behind it. But it's going to be a meaningless formalism. What about e.g. diaconic hospitals, which are wholly owned companies, but where is there a foundation that owns all the shares? This becomes a pointless formalistic approach. I noticed with interest that there was a very clear – for me at least – difference between the way the representative Tegen ran this distinction and the approach of the Council of State, which I felt as pragmatic as my own approach is. What's interesting is not what labels you put on institutions, what's interesting about what they have to offer is qualitatively good, and that it's qualitatively better than other people who make offers, and then it's going to be by. definition is chosen regardless of the driver. I must say that I basically agree with the committee chairman that for users these paper exercises are completely uninteresting. For users, there is one thing that matters, namely that they are offered a place at all, that that place holds a target qualitatively, and that the offer they receive gives them a real chance of getting out of addiction. I think – last but not least – that if you were to include formal questions as a main element in this context, it is far more relevant to put the spotlight on the role of the RHFs and on the unfortunate mix of roles that I believe both the inter-pellant, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progress Party agree, namely the mix between caring for responsibility and ownership that lies within the RHFs themselves. There is a much more interesting problem also in this context to get something done about than this artificial borderline between so-called ideal and so-called commercial actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1239	The left agrees that private non-profit institutions have played and play an important role in the treatment of drug addicts. It is therefore important that players, including the supply regime, do not relinquish these institutions from the possibility of providing treatment to a large group. We need more space for the treatment of spaces -- and not fewer. We have to avoid that, for example. a rigid supply regime results in a poorer overall treatment provision for this weak patient group. Health professionals play an important role in the purchase of places. As we have heard – and as I understand it – health professionals have acted differently with regard to the purchase of treatment facilities. As I see it, the posts of the Council of State, he thinks there's going to be some harmonisation now. I think it's good for the actors involved, so everyone knows the game rules. I think that in the next round it will be very good for those who are involved, i.e. the patients. I am pleased that both the Council of State and Dag Ole Tegen here today stress the importance and importance of private and non-profit organisations and institutions’ supply of drugs to drug addicts. The left agrees that these institutions play a very important role, so it is important, for example, to: an offer regime is not like a link in the wheel of these institutions so that the important offers are destroyed. At least as I see it, the answer from the government council is positive. I agree that it was also quite pragmatic. In the area we're now talking about, at least we have to have an open mind. Interaction has been a mantra, not least from the Council of State, and we have to interact with this great volunteer for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1250	This debate and this theme show how the red-green parties are also concerned about being able to cooperate well with private and ideal owners of institutions, and it's probably about over 60 pst. by the institutions in this field. There's a lot of good commitment, a lot of experience and a lot of knowledge in these institutions, and we, the red-green parties here on the Stortinget, have also several times when we've wanted to bet more in the care of the cattle, we turn that way with our appropriations. But there is one question that I think is important in the form of cooperation and in how to put up the agreements and interactions, such as the special representative Nesvik, and also the representative Wohnning, in his posts, which I could imagine going a little further. These are the debates we have about meeting addicts where the patient history is such that they have had five, six, eight, ten, twelve residency in an institution, whether it has been private, non-profit or public, who have not given results, and it has also led to debates on whether we should go other ways, on the debate on heroin or heroin-assisted treatment and other alternatives. I think it's an important question also when we have this topic of interpellation here today. For my part, on several of the visits we have had with the Committee, and which I have had on my own, I have asked many of these institutions: do you know what their results are? Do you know how it goes with those addicts who have been with you, after one month, after half a year, after one year? I have received a few answers to it somewhere. Of course, on the one hand it has value in itself to get to a place, calm down and get care so that you are better equipped to get into the hard life as a addict again. But the main question must be: how many things to get out of addiction by staying at the institutions? When we think about the form of agreement, the form of cooperation between all kinds of institutions, whether we call it private, non-profit or public, I think it is important that we do not stagger in old forms of work and treatment ideology that have proven not to produce good enough results and not improve the situation for addicts enough. I think it's an important balance when we're discussing here the relationship between predictability and making demands for improvement. I do not think that is necessarily a contradiction, but I believe that we must avoid our demands for predictability becoming a sleep cushion, that we must combine it to have long-term agreements and the ability to build quality by making clear demands, and that there must be a stronger element in the agreement and in the negotiations. I believe that agreements and negotiations should also focus more on post-institutional cooperation, i.e. how to develop cooperation on post-institutional protection and follow-up after stay, and how the potential for improvement is, evaluation of results, how to deal with drug addicts both in the short and long term after their stay in the institutions, must be part of the assessment of how to continue to cooperate. It is clear that this is more difficult with regard to drug addicts than in other parts of somatic and other treatment areas, because it is much more complex and difficult to obtain such tangible results. But we're still totally dependent on getting a better grip on that part of cooperation with all kinds of institutions. I think the only way everyone, whether it's public or private, ideal institutions, can secure themselves in the long term, is to focus on improving, doing the best possible job, and putting greater emphasis on results. I believe that we should be careful to have ideological barriers in this area with regard to who we are working with, etc. The only barrier I think we should have is not to preserve forms of work, treatment ideologists, etc. where it is difficult to see that it has produced good enough results for patients and drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1261	There was a small, polite debate here on the Right and the Advance Party, especially with regard to the fact that they were not so different from private commercial and private ideals. I see differences, and to me it's relatively simple that nonprofit are the ideals, and those are those I'm talking about when we're talking about ideal institutions, those that don't take dividends, those that run ideal, and that in this way maybe add an institution much more than just using the means they have, or that they get from the public. Many of these also use their own resources to supplement them in a good way, and they often have voluntary links. I would start with that. Otherwise, I also agree with the representative Harald T. Nesvik, who says that the most important thing is that we do not have such long waiting times, that waiting times do not increase, and that we have enough money in the drug sector, so that we can actually deal with all these addicts who are in larger and larger queues. I very much agree with that. But at the same time to the actual interpellation: it goes on, as I will still claim, that an incredible number of institutions have experienced an insecurity, an uncertainty and an unforeseeable in recent years, perhaps more than in the past. Governments point out that there are four different ways of making agreements here. It is clear that it can also create confusion when perhaps one and the same institution is to provide services in different regions that operate differently. This may have caused some of the institutions to find this very difficult. At the same time, we know that the length has been a huge problem. Many have obtained short-term leases. As far as I know – here I have to make a small reservation – you can actually go as far as six years in the EEA legislation, perhaps not in the first round, but by continuing the agreements as well. And you can figure that out. The most important thing, I think, for these institutions is to have a good predictability and to have neat and perhaps the same criteria for both selection and agreements. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: how will it be for the non-profit institutions in the future? Will it be the same length? Will there be the same selection criteria? Will there be the same system, whether it be direct purchase, competition without publication or competition with negotiation? Will the Council of State add that it's going to be the same all over the country? Then it would be much better for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1271	I just want to start by saying that I believe that it is the capacity that is at the heart of the matter, and to have sufficient capacity. So you could say that it's all about appropriations. Appropriations are very important, but they are not entirely related to appropriations. So you could say that here you should have given more money. There will always be a political discussion, but I recall that the Government has increased the appropriations for the drug sector by nearly 700 million. kr after the government change. In this way, I believe there is a basis for commendation for the work we have done. So more concrete about what's interpellation's theme. I'm very concerned that we need to have a diverse offer. I believe that the public sector should have drug treatment services in its own activities. It is true that we also have our own capacity in our own business. So I believe that in some contexts it is quite easy to buy services from what is called private, commercial operators in this field. So do we. But then I'm more likely to agree with the representative Davøy that there is a difference between private, commercial actors and private, non-profit actors. In my opinion, the ideal actors have an added value – they have a value-based basis and have a heavy element of volunteering. Just having value-based institutions with heavy voluntary elements also means that we also provide greater diversity. I think that's what we need in the drug sector. That is why I am very concerned that we should have purchase procedures that make sure that we have something in our own business, we should not buy everything. We're going to have purchase procedures that ensure that we have transparency and competition where it's right, but it's also right to use the exception to make sure that some of the suppliers are private, non-profit organisations. So I just want to repeat what I've said that I'm very concerned that when regional health companies buy, they're going to be good and really professional buyers. Then I agree that the contract length is a very important piece, and we are working on it. But be aware that every medal has a backside. Take, for example: that the door of the Salvation Army wants to enter again. The longer the contracts we gave to others when the Hope door was lost, the longer the time will go before they get the opportunity to get back into the business. So any medal has a backside, including this one. It's in the sum of all of these considerations we have to try to outsmart a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1284	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1298	The provision of specialist healthcare to adults with mental health problems is the theme of the National Audit Office’s survey. According to the Roadmap for Mental Health, it is good that the Riksrevision has thoroughly reviewed the supply of adults. However, a weakness in the survey is that it is only the specialist healthcare service that has been examined, and not also the provision of the municipal health service. The reason why I say this is that there is a connection between the offer that you can get locally from the municipal health service, and that offer you must provide centrally from the specialist health service. A well-developed municipal health service should be able to mitigate the need for specialist health services. A poor offer locally can lead to too much in progress centrally. And we'll actually see more examples of that. The Committee’s consultation during the examination of this report also showed that one has undergone severe changes in the mental health provision for adults due to fixed cultures such as: insufficient user perspective. Changing treatment cultures has been very demanding in many places. It is not done overnight to get good conversions. It has proved to be far more demanding within the psychiatry than within the somatic to make the necessary adjustments. The national audit concludes that the differences between health regions are large. It also appears that this has an impact on the referral practices of the decision-makers. The entire committee believes that it is serious that the decision-makers have so different thresholds for referrals to the specialist health service – that is one. The second is that professional judgement is so strongly influenced by the offer that exists. Furthermore, the Committee is of the opinion that it is alarming that many references are deficient – that is, one. The second is that in such cases the specialist health service does not request additional information. The Committee asks the Ministry to follow up the issue of referral practices in order to ensure that patients receive equal treatment. Otherwise, the Committee notes that the Ministry has strengthened the reporting requirements and established a communication template to improve the governance dialogue between health enterprises and the Ministry. It's very good and necessary. This allows the Department to monitor developments. Some of the problems have been that the ministry has not known what the situation has been like, because one simply has not had good enough management data to follow developments. Equivalent mental health services shall be available irrespective of where they live. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that there are large geographical differences. Norwegian psychiatry was in very poor condition when the escalation plan was launched. Much has improved, and in many fields it has become much better. However, the report from the Riksrevision shows that there is still a lot to ensure that the mental health service for adults is good enough. The Committee expects the Ministry of National Health 2007-2010 to show the way towards the goal of improving and equivalence of mental health provision for adults across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1315	The aim of the Roadmap for Mental Health was to create a comprehensive and coherent treatment network, where users’ needs should be the starting point for treatment and care. The National Audit Office's report shows that the target is far from being achieved, and the report identifies many serious weaknesses that should have been better followed up in the course of the process. The report was not a great surprise to us who are in the Health and Welfare Committee, and most of this has been mentioned during the annual budgetary procedures. One of the most serious is that there is no link between the patient’s condition and the right to treatment. It's completely random who gets the license plates, and the discount rate at outpatient clinics varies from 3 to 79 pst. The percentage of license plates varies from 11 to 92 pst, and a high proportion of patients get no diagnosis, just a symptom. This also applies to the most seriously ill. Many determinators do not refer to district psychiatric centers when they know that the patient is not met by a specialist, but perhaps a nurse or a sociologist. This was also noted during the hearing. Many patients are not informed of their rights, and in many cases the patient’s doctor does not receive the necessary information to follow up. Those who are referred to do not get the right to treatment that they should have had according to the objective. Psychiatrists are to a small extent involved in the treatment. Psychiatric acute competence is missing, and it was also pointed out by the medical board 20 years ago. There are no recruitment standards for the district psychiatric centres, and the survey shows that the specialist section ranges from 6 to 43 pst. by the trade unions. There are also many vacancies and extensive use of temporary workers, including non-residents with varying Norwegian knowledge and other cultural backgrounds. This may have a major negative impact on the treatment of these types of patients. I also brought this up with Sylvia Brustad in 2007. The progress party is therefore very critical that the district psychiatric centers are not better followed up. It also appears that there is a very unclear division of responsibilities between the first- and second-line services and the rest of the psychiatric specialist services. Of course, it goes against patients and the objective of good interaction. Although this report does not take care of the community health service, it is known that it is not designed to capture the major changes by the fact that many of the sick now live in their own homes. From 2003 to 2006, the decrease in daily places was 9 p.m. and the deceleration continues. Health south-east cut with whole 35 pst. in the heaviest daily places now in the autumn. In spite of that, we have a situation where, within psychiatry too, we find the strange phenomenon of ‘corridor Asians’. According to user organisations and relatives, the phasing-out of day-to-day care in the area of security psychiatry and changes over the past 10 years has led to a lower level of provision for the most ill, and this was also evident at the hearing. Prior to 2004, the right to necessary health care was conditional on the resources available at all times. This provision was criticised as both inconspicuous and unvalued. Capacity restrictions were removed from the Act of 1 September 2004, and it would now be the patient’s condition and the cost-effectiveness of the necessary treatment measures that would determine whether the patient had a legal requirement for health care. Today, so-called deadlines are avoided by either refusing or curtailing the patient’s treatment offer, so that more people go through more quickly. They are given too few consultations, or they are also sent out too quickly after daily treatment. Follow-up in municipalities is often absent or too poorly cared for, which has had serious consequences. We've seen repeated examples of that. Patients with particularly poor outcomes are the most seriously ill with severe psychiatric disorders. Previous studies have also shown that over 60 years of age are a group with little or no access to specialist health services. The new priority supervisor is said to be a major step in the right direction, but I am unfortunately not sure that the supervisor will resolve most of the weaknesses that this report has pointed out. One important prerequisite for patients to be granted their rights is that there is a good enough offer, that the right to free hospital choice applies in addition to those who have an appointment today, so that patients can receive treatment where it is actually available. This also applies to psychologists and psychiatrists, as proposed by the Progress Party. Today, health companies are limiting who they have an agreement with, and many clinics and institutions are not able to provide services. Finally, I would like to say that the Riksrevision's study of both children and young people, which we have previously treated, and adults, shows the same major weaknesses. The need for assistance appears to be far greater than the plan envisaged, and the results of the study and other reports submitted show that the escalation in the psychiatric sector must continue, but even more targeted and earmarked, as proposed by the Progress Party, until better funding comes into place. I would then like to address the proposal on several daily places in the field of security psychiatry, promoted by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1348	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1351	The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee is relatively brief. In return, the annex to the referral is very comprehensive, namely the record of the hearing in connection with the examination of the matter in the Committee. I think that might be indicative of the challenges we are facing in this area. It is significantly easier to describe and expand the problems than to recommend the proper treatment of the problems. What has been revealed in the review of the Riksrevision is that there are unacceptable differences in the treatment provision patients receive in this field. Based on the data provided by the Riksrevision, it seems that differences are even greater in mental health protection than in somatic health, and they are more than enough in somatic health. This is in itself a cross-section of thought, because the guidelines for the professional evaluation are the same throughout the Norwegian health system. There is not one set of guidelines in one region and another set in another region. The priority requirement to be followed by healthcare professionals is the same. But it is interpreted very differently. The most serious thing about the Riksrevision report is that it states that at least in parts of the system there are things that indicate that the patient's condition is not the determining factor for which diagnosis comes out, and what rights are triggered by the diagnosis, but it is the system's ability to accept that determines how the diagnosis is designed. That is why I think there is reason to stress the work that has been done by the Ministry of Health and Health in developing professional guides that complement the priority regulation itself in such a way that at least some way along the way the dramatic differences in the practice of existing regulations are eliminated. It is clear that the general rights of patients should be the same throughout Norway and in all parts of the healthcare system. We are, of course, obliged to take it seriously when the National Audit Office can prove that the distance between maps and terrain is unusually large. But when the distance between maps and terrain is so great, the question of what is needed is a revision of the map. Is there any reason to believe that a revision of the map will substantially change the terrain? Or is it just the way the map is used that is the fundamental challenge? After following this issue for some decades, I believe that the most important resource that is not used effectively enough today is that of the private specialists – and now I'm not saying the private contract specialists, but I explicitly say the private specialists, regardless of whether they have an agreement or not. It is where there are professionally available resources that can be extracted in the short term, while building up increased public capacity at best takes a long time, and in many cases is also absorbed by the internal bureaucracy process, so that the net benefit of patient treatment is equal to zero. In fact, there is a significant resource for both psychologists and psychiatrists, which can be exploited more effectively than today. But it will lead to a debate other than the content of this matter, which is how we deal with the contractual system, and how we can free ourselves from the coercion that the contractual system has become a long way off and which means that professional resources are not being used well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1362	Let me first say that the case rapporteur and several other speakers have explained the matter. This is a question that can well be politicised and say that there is disagreement, but the Riksrevision report is primarily a document to point to the overall challenges we face in the field of psychiatry. After many years here in the house, I remember well when the psychiatry plan was first adopted. I guess that's about. 10 years ago. What this report states is that the situation is significantly better today than it was ten years ago, without it being said that there are no major challenges in psychiatry. That also reveals the report. Therefore, there is reason to say that this report from the Riksrevision must be part of the basic material taken into account by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in its further work to improve the supply of psychiatric patients. What this report also shows is that there are considerable differences between health businesses. There are considerable differences between health regions. What's the challenge is how we make sure we get a better and equivalent offer to those who actually need it. But it is important to bear in mind – and that’s actually a point – that through these ten years of the Roadmap for Mental Health, we have had many different governments in Norway, and we have had many different health and care committees here in the house. And there has basically been cross-political agreement on this promise. Therefore, caution should be exercised in politicising what you do not need to politicise, just take into account what the Riksrevision report clearly reveals, namely that we have some common challenges, which I know with certainty that the Ministry of Health and Welfare at the Council of State is addressing. Let me point to some of the challenges we have. There are several people who have been involved in them. One challenge is that there is a wide disparity in the treatment of applications. Here we see – and this was also evident in the hearing – that treatment rejection varies from 3 pst. to 79 pst. in outpatient clinics. We also see that the specialist part of the 46 DPS tested varies from 6 pst. to 43 pst. Here we have in many ways a Difference Norway that is not planned. There are also many reasons for this in the report, and they are complex. But the point is that this exposes an excessive inequality that causes many patients not to receive the treatment they require. That's what's the challenge here. What we also see is that these types of patient groups are not suitable for unit price treatment, and we have the single price system in health. This means that there is also a challenge in how to better solve this in the future. The other day I had the pleasure of watching a television show about paleontologist Jørn Hurum, who has come over a fossil in Messel, Germany. He baptized it 'the missing link'. It's possible that it's really the missing link we're asking for here as well. It is possible that the interaction reform which the Council of State is now to present to the Storting in a short time is, in fact, the ‘missing link’. At least we see very clearly in the psychiatry that there is a lack of an intermediate link between the health company and the offer out in the individual municipality. It is possible that this staging message should be called ‘the missing link’ and nothing else. In any case, this interaction reform can respond to many of the challenges pointed out by the Riksrevision report, namely that there is a lack of interaction, coordination and lack of reporting that causes many patients to fall completely innocently into a system that is large, difficult, unbridled and bureaucratic. At least let me hope that this big message that we get in a short time can be an answer to the ‘missing link’ in psychiatry. Let me also say that we see that there have been significant resources in this period, not only through the escalation plan for mental health, but also in the municipal economy. The local economy has undoubtedly also contributed, even if it has not contributed enough. There is also a lot of wisdom in this report, which is important for the ministry. In general, I would like to conclude by saying that the report that the Riksrevision has produced is an important report. This report combined with the knowledge we have about this field, and what we know is from the Government, makes me optimistic. I also think it is important to say that, as far as possible on such an vehement political issue, one should try not to politicize more than good is, because here there is a great deal of political will and consensus. And if you don't succeed, I think that the representative's pay is very central to this, namely that it's not about political will to get it done, it's really not about resources either, because the resource allocation has been significant in the period, but it's about simple things: are we able to organize this well enough, are we able to get the interaction pattern well enough, and are we able to ensure that it's the patient that's the most important, and not the system around? So I think we're on the right track. This report shows that we have some way to go, but we've also gone a little bit, so let's also remember that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1381	The National Audit Office’s report and a steady look-up in the media show that mental health protection remains a major flaw. When this is said, I want to state at the same time that there has been a lot of positive in this area since 1997. The 1996 Storing Communication, which provided the basis for the treatment and subsequent economic escalation plan, concluded that the treatment chain was broken at all stages. At that time, it was a real description of misery. Through the escalation plan, mental health services have improved both in primary health services and in specialist health services. New offers and services are built up, and more people get help. At the same time, luckily, there has been a greater transparency about mental disorders. Thus, several have dared to seek help for such disorders and the need for services has increased. The National Audit Office’s report has taken care of the specialist health service. This means that only one bone in the treatment chain has been examined, which will not give a complete picture of the situation. Much of the conversion and escalation that has taken place over the last ten years has also taken place in municipalities — in the primary health service. The objective has been that treatment should be given as close as possible to the patient. A well-developed service provision in municipalities will also mean a reduction in the burden on specialised treatment services. The changes that have occurred have been demanding, and it has taken longer than one might have expected in 1997. The study shows that there are considerable differences between health regions, including the representative for Wage. This applies to both the number of daily and outpatient places. Decision-makers also have different referral practices, and references may often be deficient. Furthermore, the study shows that reference practices are influenced by the adequacy of the offers to which reference can be made. It is alarming that the patient’s ability to receive proper treatment may be affected by a lack of information about the patient’s condition and where the patient lives in the country. It is absolutely necessary for the Ministry to take action to correct this, which I have understood the ministry is in the process of doing. Equivalence in health provision, including in the field of mental health protection, should be available irrespective of where you live in the country. From 2009 onwards, the earmarked funds for mental health protection are included in the framework grants to municipalities. The Christian People's Party was familiar with this and felt that there was still such a great need to build up the service equipment in this field that the money from the action plan should still be earmarked. This was particularly true in children’s and youth psychiatry, and not least in long-term mental illness, which required some housing measures. The National Audit Office's report shows, as I have seen, that there are still major unmet needs in this area. Once the ringing has been removed, it is particularly important that the department closely monitor whether this weakens the offer. I would say it so strongly that, if necessary, there should again be earmarked funds in those areas where you can see that it might not go fast enough in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1400	The open consultation on this report on 24 February was also a review of the entire escalation plan, and users and professionals were addressed. In my opinion, the consultation showed that there is a relatively broad consensus on the main action we need to take to further develop the mental health field in Norway. Clearly, we still have major challenges. I'll get to that soon. But we must not forget all the positive things that have been achieved through the escalation plan. There has been a significant expansion and development of services both in municipalities and in specialist health services, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on the development of skills, and information and awareness-raising work has been started on schools, the population and the labour force. As I said, I am not satisfied with the efforts in all areas, and I would like to mention some examples: We started setting up and developing mental health work in municipalities too late. We have not succeeded in establishing real user involvement anywhere. There is still a lot of shiftwork to be done when we are going from institutional day-to-day treatment to outpatient and local services. Force usage has not been reduced. We need more psychiatrists and some other disciplines at the district psychiatric centers. Further conversion will release psychiatrists and other hospital professionals, enabling them to engage in decentralised work and strengthen the interdisciplinary work of the district psychiatric centres. We also need specialists in the municipalities. With that rug, what do we do now? The mission document, which the Ministry gives to health businesses and which is passed on from there, has become more pointed and more concrete, with stricter requirements for conversion, modernisation and development of competences, and a high emphasis is placed on user involvement. The use of coercion is going down, and we're going to have interesting examples that we're learning from. I had the pleasure of visiting the Jären District Psychiatric Centres last Friday. It is a district psychiatric centre offering an offer to the inhabitants of four to five municipalities in Jären. Some of the things that were very exciting there were that they had user-controlled spaces. The patients signed a contract with the district psychiatric center. Now there were 31 patients who had such a contract. The contract was that when the user, who lived outside the institution, felt that he or she needed accommodation, the user himself decided that he or she would be admitted. The system was now evaluated, and the evaluation showed that during the period in which these user-driven sites had been used, the consumption of services to residents in the institution was halved, compared to before the start of these user-driven contracts. The use of coercion was reduced by two thirds. What this shows is that increased availability led to lower consumption. Cooperation between the community service and specialist health services through this type of user contract led to a much better situation of life for users, and it was meaningful for the professionals who worked at the district psychiatric centre. This again led to that they did not have any vacancies at the Jären District Psychiatric Centres. All positions of excellence, all medical assistants, all clinical psychologist positions, etc. Be obsessed. It shows that there is a lot of exciting happening in the field too, which goes in the right direction. So we have to become more acute and more concrete on the part of the department when it comes to demanding this kind of development. A new report template has been created to improve the governance dialogue and we have introduced stricter reporting requirements. We need to know what's going on. The contract specialists – where I will probably separate some layers of the representative's salary and say the contract specialists – will be more closely linked to the other specialist health service, not least so that patients don't call many in order to get an hour. One of the things that I have really experienced as unworthy of patients after I became Minister of Health and Care is that people can leave the firm, for example. here in the city, with a list of 100-150 names to which they themselves must call. In a situation where the decision maker thinks he is so sick that special care is needed in the field of mental health protection, a list of telephone numbers is provided and a message is sent to call him. We have to put an end to this, and that is one of the very strict demands we have made in the documents for this year. It's a system to end this year. In this year's budget, there is an incentive grant of 20 million. to employ several psychologists in the municipalities. 50 million. kr is granted to obliging cooperation models between municipalities and regional health establishments. We're inspired by what's happening in Moss, by what's called an ACT team, where the specialist health service and the community health service work together on a team working out where the patients are. If you stop taking your medicine, you're not allowed to go on with it. You're followed up by an auxiliaries who make sure that the disease doesn't develop. There I think we also have a very important point about some of the tragic killing cases we've seen too many examples of. We have continued the means of competence from the escalation plan, and it is, as the representative Giltun had in mind, that the prioritisation guides have been developed to ensure a fairer and fairer prioritisation. Many of the failures and deficiencies we see are due to a lack of interaction between the levels and within the municipalities, as the representative Djupedal so well pointed out. The sharp administrative separation between municipalities and specialist health services makes it difficult to provide coherent services that really meet the needs of users. The interaction reform will help municipalities to provide services to the needs of the population to a much greater extent than at present. If the municipalities are given a clearer responsibility – economic and legal – it will contribute to a better and more comprehensive offer. The goal is that patients and users get the right help at the right place, when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1455	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3213]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1471	The Committee stresses that the aim of the pharmaceutical policy is to ensure that patients have good access to the necessary medicinal products, that medicinal products are used in a professionally sound manner and that prices are kept at an acceptable level, i.e. at a reasonable level. The cost for both the country and for the user depends on the prices of original and copy medicines and the speed with which copy medicines are made available in pharmacies. Norway is among the cheapest countries in Europe for medicinal products. That's an impression many of us don't have, but that's actually the case, and in the case of copy drugs in the step price system, we're actually the cheapest in Europe. It shows, I believe, that the measures taken by the public to obtain reasonable medicinal products have actually been successful. However, Norway has a slightly lower share of generic drugs than other countries in Scandinavia, and the Stortinget has repeatedly pointed out that the generic ratio needs to be increased. Long procedure in the Medical Products Agency to obtain a marketing authorisation for copy medicines results in the public using too much resources on medicine. In fact, the size has increased the budget of the Medical Products Agency by 25 million. kr in order to reduce the processing time and for the development of electronic solutions of the same purpose. However, the Committee calls on the Ministry to follow closely the developments in order to achieve the objectives set for the duration of the procedure and to increase the proportion of generic medicinal products to a level similar to that of other countries in Scandinavia. As I said, the prices in the pharmaceutical market are both acceptable to both the state and users, but we would wish that there had been a slightly higher proportion of medicines and that they would have come on the market faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1480	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1496	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1505	The transition in the defence sector is one of the most extensive changes made in the public sector. It has been going on over two major periods, and there was a broad consensus on the need. Ten years ago, Defense was in a deep and sustained structural crisis with an imbalance between size and resources. The objectives were to improve operational capability through a shift from a mobilization defence to a defence capable of meeting a wide range of tasks, both at home and outside. The conversion involved reorganisations, new structures, mannings and a shift of resources from operation to investment in modern materials. The National Audit Office’s study shows that the defence has not fully achieved the objectives of establishing the adopted structure during the last year. These are due to delays in material renewal and shortcomings in personnel and practice. In the course of this transition, the National Audit Office has carried out a total of seven administrative audits which have affected various issues relevant to the migration and which have revealed shortcomings. In this way, the comments that this report provides provide a basis for, not so surprising. Revisions also have the important purpose of being able to provide knowledge from which we can learn. Such a lesson in this report is that the way in which the amortization was carried out resulted in too much loss of competence. Here we now see that the requirement for a pace of implementation went beyond the need to maintain the right competence in the organisation. The same conclusion has been drawn by the Ministry itself, as the Stortinget was informed about already in St.prp. No 78 for 2006-2007. Another important experience is that the FLO became too large and diverse and has had too little capacity and competence to play its intended role well enough. It has brought the consequences to the attention of the Council of State, and it announced last autumn that organisational action will be taken to simplify the FLO and provide a stronger search light on the core business: to provide, maintain and deliver material and supplies to the defence sectors. It has the support of the Committee. As regards operational capability, the Riksrevision’s assessment is that the objective of increasing operational capability has not been achieved during 2008. The Ministry has pointed out in its observations that if one had been able to develop throughout 2008, the picture would be different. The same point was made by the head of defence during the hearing. The Defence Manager’s assessment is that the development from 2005 to 2008 has given the Defence a significant operational promise and that this will continue in the current long-term as the major material supply programmes close. The National Audit Board, on its side, maintains its conclusion, even after reviewing the 2008 Annual Report of the Chief of Defence, that the operational capability has not been improved. The explanation of this gap in the operational capability development assessments shall be that the reporting systems used in the defence do not allow to report improvements in existing capacities but are only missing during the period. This is an unfortunate weakness in reporting systems that also weakens the ability of the Storting to control. The Committee therefore requests that the reporting system be reviewed so that no future basis for this type of gaping conclusion emerges in such a central area as operational capability. Another of the objectives, the shifting of resources from operation to investment, is per. today not fully reached. The Committee looks forward to the overall assessment of developments for the 2005-2008 period, which the Government will provide to the Budget for 2010. Another important element of the transition to improve operational capacity is the substantial material renewal. In many parts of the transition period, the appropriations granted year by year have not been used up. It has contributed to delays in the renewal programmes. The need to recover the large deficit of defence accumulated in 2004 also had a significant impact on material investment projects, both in 2006 and 2007. In this area, there has been some significant deviation between what has been planned and granted and what has been implemented. This also gives an observation. Therefore, it is positive that the defence in 2008 has used what was budgeted and that the accounts for 2008 show that all funds allocated to material for the period 2005-2008 have been traded. One of the objectives that was drawn up early in the conversion work, in St.prp. No 42 for 2003–04, operating costs for logistics and support activities were to be reduced by DKK 2.3 billion, while operating costs for operational activities and power generation were to be increased by DKK 1.4 billion. The National Audit Office’s study has revealed that there are no systems in place to report specifically on those objectives. It makes observations and requests that control procedures be put in place to verify the achievement of such objectives. The Right Party and the Advance Party have some special comments, and I expect these parties themselves to prepare for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1535	The defence has shown a worrying development for a number of years. We have seen that economic development has not reflected on the tasks the defence is required. We're also very sceptical about the amputation we see. We are concerned that the Defence Organisation must be large enough to carry out the assigned tasks. In particular, we see great challenges in the Army regarding the possibility of providing enough strengths for foreign operations while ensuring a presence in Norway. For several years, the Progress Party has proposed a significant strengthening of the defence budget. We have believed that the development of the defence has long gone in the wrong direction, and we have seen that parts of the organisation have not been able to maintain a proper level of practice and other activity. We've been, and are, worried that the defense will appear to be an insecure and unattractive job as a result of the many reorganisations in the organization. We have been almost alone in expressing concern about the state of defence and the impact it has on the defence's ability to survive as a credible organisation. We are aware and appreciate in many ways that the main objectives of the transition in the defence sector in the period 2002-2005 and 2005-2008 have been to improve operational capacity. Defence management has repeatedly said over the past few years that defence operations have never been better. We have found this strange, all the time it has been in recent years in practice and service. We have pointed out that there has been a serious negative development in the number of operational days for the Coast Guard and the Marine in our sea areas, without hearing this from the government and others. We have expressed concern about the reduction in the surveillance flight and the lack of flight hours for our pilots. In our alternative budgets, we have also pointed out in recent years what we have seen as an operational problem, namely that the FLO has not been able to deliver the services and goods they are going to the rest of the defence. As I have said, we have only had such serious concerns about the defence. Now it turns out – I regret to say, for the defence’s sake – that the National Audit Office’s investigation of the conversion into the defence sector concludes with exactly what the Advance Party has claimed. The serious fact that the Riksrevision has come up with these concessions shows that the defence management has subcommunicated the truth about the real state of defence. In my opinion, the leadership of the defence has helped to undermine the decision-making base of the Storting. This fact that the defence management has its own view of the state of defence is worrying. The documents submitted to the Stortinget did not show the facts obtained from the Riksrevisionstudies. We have a great deal of understanding that the ministry is trying to mitigate the results of the study, but that only makes the defence situation even more difficult. If we look at what emerged from the Riksrevisions, we will see that the defence has not achieved the main objective of conversion in the defence sector in the period 2005–08 to improve operational capacity. The transition started in 2002 and has been one of the most extensive changes in the state sector in Norway. The Court of Auditors notes that the structure adopted for the period 2005-2008 is not established as foreseen. Furthermore, the Riksrevision notes that there are significant deficiencies related to the phase-in and maintenance of materials. Like the concern of the Progress Party, the study shows that the exercise activity has been reduced or cancelled, which we believe is due to too low budgets, among other things. as a result of poor information from the management of the Defence Agency on the real needs. It is found that the defence lacks substantial competence. This is a result of the far too rapid downsizing of the defence combined with the constant reorganisations that have helped many skilled employees to find other careers. We fear that this has helped to give the defence a bad reputation as an employer, thus excluding resource people from applying for it. Both in 2007 and 2008, the head of defence reported too low training activity in all defence sectors. In the years 2005-2007, the defence sector did not invest in material according to the size granted. This has had consequences for the availability of material. Time and again, the Party of Advances has reiterated that it is essential that the defence has sufficient and adequate equipment, as this is essential for the defence's ability to perform its tasks. This is also important with regard to the safety of the servants. As revealed in the investigation, the defence sector has also failed to provide the basis for the plan requirement for both conversion periods. There is no doubt that this has also had consequences for the conversion of the defence sector. The Progress Party has been alone in trying to correct this gap between needs and appropriations through our alternative budgets. It's almost frightening to see that our calculations and proposals are very accurate in relation to the real needs of the defense. It is, and has been, frustrating in fact to be the only party that has seen this. The results of the conclusions of the National Audit Office and the many unclear replies of the Ministry should lead the Defence Committee to consider this matter for further investigations and consultations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1563	The National Audit Office’s study makes full reference to the fact that the Defence Agency has not achieved the objective of establishing a structure adopted for the period 2005-2008. The reason for the material deficiencies in material, personnel and practice. The study reveals that there are major challenges and delays in both the Army, the Maritime Defense, the Air Force, the Homeland Protection and joint capabilities. Reference is made to the fact that the Army has had major challenges in establishing the structure adopted by 2008 and, in the view of the Right, there is no prospect of its establishment by 2009. In the case of maritime defence, there are significant delays in the phase-in of new material, which means that the intended capacity of coastguard, frigate and missile torpedo boats cannot be realised as planned. This is due, inter alia, to: late deliveries. In addition, the availability of submarines is associated with uncertainty. For joint capacities, the study has, inter alia: deficiencies identified in the realisation of the FLO logistical base country and the Defence Competence Centre logistical. I allow myself to note that significant deviations have been detected in relation to the objective of the transition in the defence sector in the period 2005-2008. The Chief of Defence’s Annual Report for 2008 shows that the Court of Auditors’ assessment that the structure adopted for the period was not established as foreseen is entirely correct. During the consultation, serious deficiencies were identified in a number of areas which have an impact on operational capability even during the current period. The operational capability of Defence at the end of 2008 was not improved, as the objective was. The right is concerned that the Defence has an economy and an organisation that reflects the tasks they are assigned to do. We are concerned that there is no balance between the requirements and the objectives set by the Storting on the one hand, and that the Defense is able to deliver on the other. Let me underline the seriousness of that situation. The right is deeply concerned about the situation in the Defence. In the context of our growing concern about the situation, the Right has noted that the Ministry of Defence refers to the adopted long-term defence plan for the period 2009-2012. This long-term plan, which, according to the Government’s assessment, contains good enough improvement measures, is now set to provide confidence that it will significantly improve the situation in defence. I would like to stress that there is considerable disagreement on the sustainability of the long-term plan, and would refer in particular to the comments made by the majority of the defence committee at the Innst. S. No 318 for 2007-2008. During the examination of this matter, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee conducted an open consultation with the Council of State, received a written reply and received documentation, including the defence manager’s annual report for 2008. Parts of this material have been graduated and cannot be quoted here, but this graduated background material is of maximum relevance to the Storting treatment. We are surprised to note that the head of defence has stated that parts of today's system for reporting on the goal and result management of the defence are perceived as of little relevance. It has also been found not to be reported according to the applicable guidelines. We look seriously at this situation, and we assume that the Ministry of Defence will ensure that it is properly developed and implemented and that relevant management parameters are implemented. With regard to operational capability, structural development, achievement of objectives and level of activity, this report from the National Audit Office has provided us with information that reinforces the image of a highly-pressed defence sector. Yes, in some areas we will actually claim that the state can be described as critical. We believe that, through the examination of this matter, the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee have become aware of – and now the Stortingeet is getting to know – conditions that are essential for the Storinge to define both the objectives and the necessary control of the development of the Defence. However, we cannot see that these conditions have been adequately explained to the Storing during this period. In some areas, there appears to be a significant discrepancy between information received by the Storting and what is described in the National Audit Office’s report as the real state of defence. I expect that the next enlargement will follow this up as appropriate, not least on the basis of the 2008 annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1580	Let me make a few comments in addition to what the rapporteur did in an excellent way when it came to changes in the Defence for the period 2005-2008. Let me first say that, of course – and this is the case with any report from the National Audit Office – you will have the most focus on one crown and not on the 99, because what this report shows is not just a question of money, but perhaps first of all a question of organisation. The defense was in a structural crisis around the millennia that started a transformation. This report then covers part of this period. It is clear that this has been a very demanding period for the Defense, with major changes, but also a period of large investments, as the report also shows. What's the main thing is that there's a lack of consistency between the structure or the money you have and what you've got out. It's absolutely necessary to look at it. Therefore, there is also good reason to say that there is a good work going on, but this work is not finished. There is also a good work – let me stress it – in the report, and the report provides a lot of knowledge about what has happened. You can also learn a lot from what you should do in the future. In my opinion, however, it is too short a period of time to make any clear judgment that the defence is going in the wrong direction in relation to the objectives set by Stortinget, although both the Defence and Defence Department must take the Riksrevision's conclusion on the deterioration of the operational capability of the investigation that has been carried out in the most serious way. Significant systemic weaknesses have been identified in the report, perhaps in particular with regard to the establishment of the Defence Logistics Organisation, which would contribute to a more professional handling of purchases. It is quite clear that the FLO's ability to deliver has not been good enough. Plans have not been followed, purchases have not been made, but shifted. This isn't about money either. The money has been granted. You've even given more money than ever. But it's about system weaknesses that make you unable to handle the deliveries that the Defense wants. The staff situation has increased. It is also quite significant what is said in the hearing, namely that they have been decapitated without taking sufficient account of the competence that the defence needs. There is no good explanation for this. This, of course, means that the defence is with a weakened staff – or worded in a different way: one has lost competence that was important to the Defense during this downtime period. It's serious, and there's reason to look at how to prevent it in the future. There's also a great weakness in the big centralized system that the FLO represents. It's important to recognize. Maybe the FLO has become too large and too diverse. It may be necessary to consider whether this can be done in a different way, how material investment can be made and carried out so that it is in line with the wishes of the Storing. The system, no matter how you choose to organise it, must be able to handle the huge tasks and investments facing the defence. The defence must, of course, ensure that they have the necessary competence both in the FLO and in their system. Changes in Defence are also about shifting resources from operations to acquisitions of new material and new technologies, adapted to today's challenges. Nor has the Defense succeeded in doing so. There has been more consumption for operation and less consumption for material. Although SV has not always been for the large investments made over the past few years, there is no doubt that once these large investments have been made, the intention is to have planned sailing days and exercises are to be carried out so that the material is actually used properly. This means that these tens of billions of not least new vessels and other investments must be used in an operationally good way. Although the Riksrevision has revealed that the objectives of the conversion have not been achieved, including the operational capacity, it is unlikely that the country’s defence capabilities will be compromised, which may be reflected in the comments of the Right in the vote. And as pointed out by the Defense itself: Many units of Defense are considered to have a good operational capability and contribute well to solving the Defense's tasks. What is also important to say is that the defense has more money than ever. This year they probably got 32 billion kroner – and 32,000 million dollars is a lot of money. This means that the defense has a lot of money and responsibility for them being managed in line with what Stortinget has said. This makes this national audit report an important document for the future on how to improve defence, maintain and improve operational capability, and not least ensure that it is the shift in resources from operation to investment, which has been the goal of a part of the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1606	The modernisation of defence in the period 2002-2008 is one of the most extensive public sector transformations. The transition has been absolutely necessary and has had a broad political base. There has also been broad agreement on the main objectives of the plan. The aim of the changeover has been to provide Norway with a timely and effective defence. The defence sector is now on the way out of the deep structural crisis and the imbalance between the structure, tasks and allocation of resources that marked the situation until the Stoltenberg I government started its turnaround in 2001. I have noticed that the minority of the Control and Constitutional Committee has doubts about the sustainability and financial assumptions of the new long-term plan. St. pp. No 48 for 2007–08 were addressed in depth almost one year ago. The government's follow-up is well anchored by the Storting decision. The plan will establish a long-term and sustainable balance between tasks, structure and economy. The National Audit Office, in its study, has highlighted important aspects of the conversion of the defence sector. I note with satisfaction that the Committee has noticed that many of the matters of the Riksrevision are also addressed in the long-term plan. The Military Professional Council of the Defence Commander is a central basis for any development of the Defence. Within the development of operational capability, the head of defence and I have a completely consistent reality: significant parts of the defence structure have improved operational capability in the period 2005–08. In view of the situation in 2001, developments are very good. In its recent country assessment, NATO has stated that Norway contributes substantially to the alliance and to operations abroad. They also state that developments outlined in the new long-term plan are important and correct. One main reason why operational capability in some areas is not reported to be increased is the replacement of material and supplier delays within several major material projects. The introduction of new material is a misguided and planned development in order to increase operational capability over time. The size of the population is continuously oriented towards development. I'm recording that the committee has comments on the reporting system. I can assure you that this is an area we are constantly working on. There is currently work to review the reporting system. The ambition is to simplify and structure reporting and to ensure an overall approach. Operational delivery capability depends on a well-functioning logistical and support apparatus. The defence logistical organisation delivers mainly under agreed delivery agreements with its customers. As announced in the long-term plan and in the 2009 budget, it was provided for a review of logistics activities. It has now been decided to implement organisational changes to clarify the lines of responsibility and governance. This ensures that the FLO can focus to an even greater extent on its core business – the provision and supply of material and supplies. In the case of material investments, I would like to point out that the 2008 accounts make it visible that all the appropriations for the period 2005-2008 have been put into circulation. As I said at the hearing on 11 March, this is a situation that would have improved if the National Audit Office had also looked at the entire implementation year 2008. Finally, I would like to maintain that the targets for the 2005-2008 period have been achieved in the main. There has been a need for some price adjustment along the way. This is natural in such large conversion processes. At the same time, the transition has cost – important competences have been lost in the context of the extensive manning down of the period 2002–2005. With the new long-term plan for 2009-2012, we are bringing the transition into a new phase. Defence shall be strengthened – new material acquired, manning increased, small and vulnerable professional environments often involved in operations abroad shall be strengthened and the FLO facility changed. At the same time, a balance must be struck between tasks, structure and economy. This has been clearly followed up by the Government in the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1632	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1637	I only have a few comments on the article for Per Ove Width. He took the National Audit Office's report to revenue for, and as a confirmation, the Progress Party has argued along the way through the treatment of the conversions and annual budgets, that the defence is becoming too small and getting too little funds. That's the wrong understanding of the Riksrevision report. For the Riksrevisionen, it has not assessed whether the decision of the Stortinget is sufficient for the Defence. Fortunately, the National Audit Office does not carry out any review of the Stortingen decision, but it checks whether the Stortingen decision is being followed up. There have been some comments. Just to give an example of whether there has been enough money: for various reasons, it has been so for several years that you have not been able to spend the money you have received for material investment, for example. That's what the remarks apply. So you now believe that you have not been well enough informed along the way about the deviations that always occur from such big changes. At least there is no support at the National Audit Office. There are no comments on the lack of reporting to Stortinget. What this report confirms, like some of the interim reports that we have discussed earlier, is that changes in the public sector, in particular as extensive changes as we are talking about here, become more demanding – it takes more time, and you make mistakes along the way – than you imagine when you start. We have seen it in several reports on migration. We saw it in the context of child protection and other businesses, and we're going to see it in the coming transformations. We have to be able, even here in Stortinget, to take into account that things take time, that things are demanding and, above all, that conversions often cost money, because we have a tendency, regardless of political stance, to get the prize already in the first budget, before you have at all had the opportunity to get the prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1644	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1660	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the intervention of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1669	The matter under consideration concerns representatives from Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Bård Hoksrud and Jan Arild Ellingsen. The proposal includes changes in the evaluation of the Public Health Act and consists of two points. The first is that the representatives ask the Government to submit a legislative proposal for increased transparency of correspondence between ministries and external agencies in all cases where there are no serious grounds for secrecy. The second point is that representatives request the Government to carry out an evaluation of the Public Health Act no later than five years after the law has been enacted. In addition, a number of examples are cited in the proposal for a representative, where representatives believe that the public has been hindered by transparency. In 2006, the government of Stoltenberg presented a new public law that was passed on to the majority in Stortinget. The main purpose of the new law was to strengthen transparency, inter alia. to ensure the widest possible participation in democratic processes. The new law entered into force on 1 January 2009 and significantly strengthened the right of access to public activities in relation to previous legislation. There will also be a narrower opportunity to grant exemptions from transparency. More information may be required than under old law. During the procedure for transparency requirements, those who require transparency are now given a stronger position, including: by strengthening the obligation to provide a justification for refusal of transparency. The new law implies that the journals of a number of bodies are made available on the Internet on a separate portal, known as the Public Electronic Postal Journal. On this basis, the majority of the Committee, consisting of members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, has shown that most of the examples described in the draft representative date from before the entry into force of the law. The majority believe that the legislative proposal to include enhanced transparency has already been implemented and refers to the response of the Minister of Justice, where, among other things, it has been implemented. is: ‘After the old provision, documents obtained from a subsidiary body for the internal preparation of the department could be exempted. [[...]] Access to exemption has been considerably narrowed in the new law by the introduction of an injury condition. The documents may now be exempted only where necessary to ensure sound internal decision-making procedures.’;» With regard to the proposal to ‘make a broad evaluation of the disclosure law no later than five years after the law has been enacted’, the majority of Storting’s own decision indicates that the law is to be evaluated during the next majorisation period. As the law came into force from 1 January of this year, this would have to result in an evaluation of the new disclosure law over the next five years. The majority therefore consider that there is no reason to support this proposal either. On this basis, the majority recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1689	Public openness is one of the pillars of democracy. Norway, as a model for democracy, is concerned that publication by the governing bodies is both correct and important. We therefore have a law that largely respects this. When the Progress Party has put forward proposals for greater transparency of correspondence between the departments and the external departments, it is because we believe that one can become better in this area, and because the Storting and the public have a right to know. In the new law, which came into force in January of this year, many of the intentions regarding the narrower possibility of exemption from public access have been respected. That's good. However, in the opinion of the Progress Party, it is far too much still possible to exempt documents from publication if one wishes to do so. The legal text says in Section 15: ‘Where necessary in order to ensure the defence of internal decision-making processes, the body may waive access to documents obtained from a subsidiary body for use in the internal proceedings.’;» This is clearly an intensification, but the possibility of abuse is largely still present, if you want to, for convenience reasons. The quotation ‘required to ensure’ has a wide scope for interpretation. The Progress Party wants to limit this opportunity, both for the sake of the Storing and for the sake of the people most need and benefit from knowing. One must, of course, take account of the internal treatment and ensure good practice, but this should not be at the expense of the need for public transparency, a need which should weigh heavily. Government parties have themselves, inter alia: through the Soria Moria Declaration, pointed out the importance of this and therefore has a responsibility to comply with its own, good intentions. This proposal will clarify that public transparency should outweigh the need for exemptions, as stated in the proposal, and hopes that the other parties too will see this need and the need for it. In the context of the review of the new disclosure law, it is also suggested that the law be evaluated during the next magnification period. The fact that new laws of this kind are to be evaluated after a certain period of time is almost a matter of course in order to determine whether the intentions of the law have been fulfilled. In order to carry out an evaluation that provides the best basis for making any changes, it is important to start work as quickly as possible and to make certain assumptions as to what an evaluation should evaluate or what an evaluation should contain. This will clearly make work simpler and give clear signals about what the legislator wants to focus on. With this proposal, the Progress Party will point to some areas that we consider to be important. We also realize that it can show up other things along the way. I find it a little strange that the government parties and the Council of State do not consider it necessary at this point to bind up the details of the evaluation, as stated in the letter from the Council of State dated 19 March 2009. When the Council of State in the same letter assumes that the issues mentioned by the Progress Party in its proposal will belong naturally to a future evaluation, it is also natural for me to wonder why the Council of State and the Government parties cannot support the proposal. Is there any hope that something will be forgotten? There is also a tendency to hear from the government parties that the Progress Party kicks up already open doors, it repeats it steadily. But it is such that open doors have a certain tendency to slip again, at least under this government, and go into wranglelocks. Then it is often wise to kick them off the hinges, so that they remain open. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Progress Party has put forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1713	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1716	I think it is good that the Progress Party chooses to put the search light on this matter. We need more transparency, not only in government, but also in other places where important decisions are made. It is a prerequisite for democracy, but it is also a prerequisite for a good and constructive debate. I'm not so sure if you have any more coverage to say that it's almost going in the wrong direction with regard to the issue of transparency, not least in the light of the work done by all the political parties when the Public Service Act was passed here in Stortinget. The proposal we are now discussing consists of two points. One is to ask the Government to promote a legislative proposal to extend the transparency of correspondence between ministries and external agencies in all cases where there are no compelling grounds for secrecy. In the second point, it is proposed to ask the Government to carry out a broad evaluation of the Public Health Act no later than five years after the law has been enacted. There are a number of points that need to be addressed in such an evaluation. It is my opinion that the proposals on the table here today, on providing transparency when there are no serious grounds for secrecy, and on evaluation, are proposals that are very much being taken care of, primarily through the new Public Health Act, but not least through the ongoing work of the Government in relation to the evaluation work to be undertaken. The new Public Health Act, adopted in May 2006, entered into force on 1 January of this year. The main purpose of the new law was to strengthen the right of access, and the law also provides for a substantial extension of the right of access to information in comparison with that provided by the Public Health Act of 1970. In general, this is expressed, among other things. by the fact that more legal entities are covered by the new law than by the old one, and that the possibility of exemption from transparency has been considerably narrowed. In addition, I mention that the person who demands transparency has now received a stronger position during the proceedings, among others. by means of stricter requirements for the justification of exemptions from transparency. The first part of the proposal commented on in that letter, which was also referred to earlier today, on 19 March 2009 to the Judicial Committee. It has been explained that documents obtained from a subordinate body for the purposes of internal preparation of the management body, such as: obtained by a ministry from an underlying body, previously in general, could be exempted from access under the old law. Under the new Act, Section 15, this exemption is substantially restricted. There is an injury condition in place so that exceptions can now only be made where this is necessary in order to ensure sound internal decision-making processes. I therefore consider the proposal to be already implemented by the new law. So it's also important to point out that many of us, in the positions we have, see that it's actually a great advantage for the public to be given transparency. I just have to say that it has been our practice in the Ministry of Justice during the years I've been there, that we are going to practise this law in a liberal way, in the sense that if we find no reason why it should be except for publicity, we are going to give the public transparency. We have a lot of examples that I don't have to mention here. But I know, among other things. that, even after the case has been brought before the Ministry, our underlying offices, whether it be the Police Directorate or the Criminal Office, have actually resulted in the publication of documents. I also believe that every sitting government has a lot to do with giving such insight, because when you don't give insight, there are often many misunderstandings and misconceptions about what is actually in the matter. Many representatives here in the Chamber are well aware that the press has been given transparency, for example. in the investigation and work of the Directorate of Police. There have been important discussions, which have also been demanding, but I think everyone has earned it. The second part of the proposal, on evaluation, is also commented on in my letter to the Committee. I refer to this letter, but also to Innst. O. No 41 for 2005–2006 and for the decision of the Grand Duchy in the case of asking the Government to carry out an evaluation of the Public Health Act during the next major period. This will be within the timeframe set out in the proposal. I still believe that it is not appropriate now to bind up the evaluation with regard to the more detailed issues to be addressed, as the proposal would result. However, it is close to thinking that the themes mentioned in the proposal will naturally be included in the forthcoming evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1736	It's interesting to hear the articles of the Council of State. He says that he is concerned that there should be full transparency, that we should not exempt documents from the public. Then I assume that the Council of State can answer a question very clearly and concretely: is it not true that departments and government councils should be able to exempt documents because it is perhaps uncomfortable for a Council of State or for a department that various reports are published immediately after the report has been completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1741	I believe that the pleasure and discomfort of state councils or others cannot be particularly burdensome when considering the issue of publicity. But it's not that you have insight into everything. If you were to give insight into everything, for example: This could be at the expense of, for example, the police department. the policies and efforts of the police with regard to serious crime. Then I believe that the Progress Party would be very concerned that this information had to be kept hidden. But our experience is that when we give the public access, and no later than the last few days, the public has been given access to reports from the Police Directorate, among others. on weapons and perceptions of threats in relation to people who have been in service – in which one can discuss and disagree, but I ask the representative to note that there is transparency – we have a lot to do with it, because then we get the best possible political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1748	I am pleased that the Council of State also confirms the need for more publicity and more transparency as a matter of principle. However, the Council of State is also aware that journalists who apply for access to public documents and who are refused are appearing from time to time. The system is now open to complaint to the Civil Ombudsman. The Civil Ombudsman can at least assess whether, in his opinion, there is a right within the law to reject a complaint, or whether it is supposed to be public transparency here. Does the Council agree with me that in order for the Civil Ombudsman to carry out his work, one must have access to the documents in question, not to publish them, it is something quite different, but in order to assess whether, in his opinion, it is a document which should have been supplied as a result of the Public Service Act or not? In other words, the Ombudsman himself must have access to that document in order to do his statutory job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1755	I am pleased that the representative Hagen and I agree that there is a need for more transparency. I believe that the entire legal work around the Public Relations Act and all the parties that ended up about it made it very clear. At the same time, I believe that it is now important to allow the law to work, and at the same time, to help get both training and competence out in the various departments. With regard to the question of transparency of the Ombudsman, it is difficult to answer in general. It is quite clear that anyone dealing with public matters has everything to gain from the possession of documents to be considered as non-public. But in general, it's hard to say yes or no to such a question about the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1763	I thank the Council of State for this general answer. But it is a question of principle: how should the Civil Ombudsman assess whether a document is covered by the provisions of the Public Service Act that it is to be supplied or not supplied to a journalist who asks, if the Civil Ombudsman himself does not see the document? How, then, is the Civil Ombudsman supposed to be able to assess it? That's why it's a purely fundamental question. It would have helped if the council had a somewhat clearer answer. Then a bill had been saved from me in connection with the revised national budget, as a government council refused to hand over to the Civil Ombudsman a document on which the Civil Ombudsman has received a complaint, and that is impossible for the Civil Ombudsman. Here, the Council of State could have cut through and solved this on behalf of the Government now, without us getting a new round of a week or two.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1772	I take the disclosure law and the conditions that are attached to the disclosure law, and so far also the process, so seriously that I do not take proceedings here in Stortingen on such important issues. So I just have to refer to my original answer when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1777	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1782	The council said in his post that he thought it was no longer coverage to say whether or not things are going in the wrong direction. He meant so far that it did not go in the wrong direction. I think it's a little special. For the Council of State, it was very concerned that the new Public Relations Act came into force on 1 January. Then it's pretty interesting to bring that, among other things. I sent a question on 2 January to the Council of State in the Ministry of Transport and asked for an overview of the list of secret road projects that could be financed under the package of measures, but did not receive a response from the Council of State. This was justified by the fact that it was part of the internal working processes in the department, and therefore the information would not be published. I think it is a little special when some of the things that have been highlighted as important, that the law has come into force and that there has been a change, that one experiences the day after the law has come into force, that documents are being withheld. And that's the same reason: the size and the turnover representatives are not given the opportunity to do their job properly, precisely because departments are holding documents back. We have several examples: we have the Coastal Authority's report on oil protection. We have Digit's report on the Air Traffic Control, which was detained by the Department. But after a lot of speculation and a lot of back and forth, the department finally chose to publish the report. We have not least the school bus case, where the department had asked for a report, and kept the report secret. They wanted to review the report before it was published, so that the public could know what was in the report. Similarly, an overview map of the most dangerous accident routes in the country has been requested. The council says you should come back and the Stortinge will see this map. In retrospect, it is likely that it is not the original map developed by the Directorate of Roads that makes the public aware of it. I think it's this kind of thing that's problematic, that you don't give the public the opportunity to actually see the original documents and to know what's in the original documents. That is why we now need to address this, so that the public is more transparent and that the public is given the opportunity to participate in the discussion in public space about what the different things are actually about. I had hoped that there were several parties that would support the fact that publicity is important, and that the public would actually get full access to important documents in order to participate in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1793	The representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, justified the proposal that the wording contained in the new law – where, therefore, an injury condition has been introduced to exempt that type of document, and that is a clear intensification in relation to the previous law – could be abused. So I am stunned, because in that proposal, the Progress Party, it says to have transparency ‘in all cases where there are no weighty reasons for secrecy’. I do not fully understand the difference between the two wordings in relation to the term ‘can be abused’. So, no matter how you put it, there was a cross-political consensus in the Storting during the examination of the new disclosure law that although the main principle is publicity, it is lawful to exempt documents under certain conditions. Then there's always an assessment, and someone has to make that assessment. It can be abused, no matter how it is formulated. So you have to do a little bit of work on how to apply the law. There must be a political pressure and a will for it to be as transparent as possible, so that access is used only where necessary, as far as it is possible to formulate it. I'm not going to draw up the whole story, but I had the dubious pleasure of sitting in the sample that investigated the last public law. It was after there was first a big message and treatment in Stortinget, where the Stortinget said yes, we must have more transparency, but exactly the solution the then government outlined, they would not have. Then the sample was reduced. We worked for four years – two years longer than what was planned. The then government, the government of Bondevik II, took so long to process the selection setting that the matter was first submitted so late that one did not have the right to deal with it in the previous period. Then it was Left's Odd Einar Dørum who was the Minister of Justice, and no one will accuse Left or Odd Einar Dørum of not being concerned with the Public Service Act. It remained above the elections, and was dealt with during this period and started only on 1 January of this year. It illustrates that it is demanding to fine-tune these holes that we need to have in order to exempt some documents. So until that attempt was made by Carl I. Hagen to imprison the Minister of Justice. Carl I. Hagen knows well that there are some documents that even the Civil Ombudsman does not have a right to see, based on the nature of the document. Such a document is government notes. Another document, for example: advice obtained by the Government from lawyers. The Civil Ombudsman does not need to see the document in order to know that the Public Service Act is such as to exempt transparency. The case Carl I. Hagen tried, was such an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1802	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3214]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1810	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1817	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1840	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop guidelines and support measures as soon as possible to ensure that LAR users planning pregnancy complete maintenance treatment prior to pregnancy and, instead, to be offered other appropriate support measures to facilitate drug and drug-free pregnancy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1893	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1926	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1957	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1981	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e1988	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there are places available within the security psychiatry to receive seriously mentally ill prisoners from Norwegian prisons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e2047	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28.ana.ud1443e2088	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President notes that the Lamentations Meeting will be held immediately after the Grand Meeting. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
