ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e55	The representative of Trond Helleland applied for a care permit on 14 and 15 May. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Buskerud County, Beate Heieren Hundhammer, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Trond Helleland leave on 14 and 15 May, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the County of Buskerud, John-Ragnar Aarset, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e80	John-Ragnar Aarset is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e94	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e103	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of the Environment and Development for the thorough and good presentation he made two days ago here in the United Kingdom. He spent good time, but it was in place in this very important matter. I think that when we start such an important debate after the presentation, it is important to see where we stand. What perspectives do we see on the globe? Because this is a global matter. It's a global challenge we have. What we see is that the heating is going on in a big way. It is difficult to give an exact answer, but one has to assess the risk and follow the precautionary principle here as well. The new UN warming research results, also described by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2007, reported a continuing increase in emissions. What is at the heart of this matter is that the risk and evidence that we are facing significant global warming is so decidedly present. It is said that in 70–90 years the warming rate may increase by four–five degrees. It's not unlikely, you say. Even an increase of two degrees of warming, which has been experienced in the past, is very serious for humans, can have colossal environmental consequences. Then the real questions we're asking are about the will to act. Is it will to act nationally? Is that will for action globally? We are going to have great ambitions here in Norway on climate issues. The government, on which the Minister for Environment was involved in the opening of the presentation, has prospects. I want to get into four-five areas that are important to us nationally. It is that we have to make a major and important contribution in terms of power plants' handling of CO2. We have to play a significant role in preserving the rainforest we have in the world. It's one of the most important grips. We are a major act in shipping, and then we can play a significant role in reducing climate emissions from that part. We can take an important responsibility for monitoring and researching climate change in polar regions. We must and must take responsibility for these areas. With the climate announcement presented in June 2007, it was well, and later the great climate agreement in Stortinget with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have reached a broad consensus on the world – in fact – the most ambitious climate goals. Norway shall follow up climate commitments by 10 percentage points to 9 pst. below 1990 levels. By 2020, Norway shall undertake large commitments to cut global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of Norway’s 1990 emissions. Not least, we've set our goal of being carbon neutral in 2030. This means that Norway will provide emission reductions equivalent to Norwegian emissions in 2030. We have also contributed to an international climate agreement. We have contributed to emissions reductions in developing countries, and the rapidly growing economy we see in China and India is a challenge. As I said, it's important to act internationally and not just nationally. What we can do globally is one of the most important things here. If we put in place international driving rules and agreements with the big nations, a lot of the work is done. When we see how it can easily change just with a presidential change in the United States, see how attitudes turn around, it's very important. But it is also important for us – and here the Minister for the Environment is a spearhead – that we show statesmanship and leadership in world affairs in this area. We can't stand here with excuses that we can't do this today, but we'll do it tomorrow. No, the whole rich Western world has a great and special responsibility for what we are facing. We can't say we knew, but we didn't have resources. We have resources to do something about this. Of course, some remain. The climate agreement laid a good foundation, and that climate agreement must also be based on the fact that we have a large, wide, secure and predictable majority in the Stortinget. We have put tools in place in the Norwegian climate debate. I mention as examples Enova, a good tool, car fees, etc. We're on it. But this is going to be petty in many ways if we don't take the big national grips — and the international grips. These are the first steps that are important here. I was in on the climate deal instead. But I would also like to say that here the different parties – and I think that also bears witness to great leadership – chose to put the ideologies a little aside to get the big climate agreement in place. There was one party here that was on the sideline of that question, a party that has a completely different starting point, that assumes that there are no man-made challenges we're facing in this area. I would like to end by saying that there are three main challenges that we are facing: It's combating climate change. I've been a part of that, not the details, it's been really prepared for the global past. But not least, the big challenge that needs to go parallel here is the question of how we can facilitate sustainable development, not only nationally, but also internationally, in order to get this going. Then it's fighting poverty. Poverty is a challenge in combating climate change. In other words, this is ultimately about solidarity between us, solidarity not only nationally, but solidarity internationally. It's this part we have to deal with, and grasp that it's man-made. We have to do something about it. We have to get the developing countries in place. We have to get the international community in place. We have to get driving rules, so that we can say to our descendants that this we put in place for the world to go on, in the name of solidarity and for the benefit of our descendants, in a proper and tidy way. We must take this responsibility, in the name of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e135	This is an important debate. Let's try to get the facts right about the positions of different parties, especially after I heard the previous post, from the Nordtun representative. One puts up here to a debate where one tries to blackmail some parties in order to appear even more fun yourself. In my speech, I would like to look at what this debate should really be about, from the point of view of the Progress Party, namely how to take measures to cut CO2 emissions. I'm not going to go into the scientific debate that the Council of State put up on Tuesday, and that was a little bit influenced by doomsday and by the fact that everything was much worse now, without taking into account that it has actually been a cooling down in the last ten years, which is under even the lowest forecasts the Intergovernmental Panel had. I'm going to assume that all the parties here at Stortinget agree that one should take action to cut CO2 emissions. All parties agree. The representative Nordtun tried to make a point that the Progress Party was not involved in the climate agreement. But if Nordtun's representative had been correct, he would have shown that the Progress Party was the first party to make contact with the Workers' Party after their 2007 national meeting, and said that based on the principles and premises that Prime Minister Stoltenberg launched from the National Labour Party meeting, the Progress Party would very much like to be involved in a climate settlement with the Government. When the negotiations began at Stortinget that autumn, the Progress Party sent a letter with its ten points as to what a climate settlement should look like. There were none of the points that meant that one should not have a settlement, that one should not take action, but our points were on how one should do it. So I think it would have been tidy by the representative Nordtun to acknowledge the fact and not continue to draw the picture – as the Minister for the Environment wanted to be drawn – that some parties do not want to cut emissions, while others do. I think the statement of 1 hour on Tuesday was remarkable. It is a theme that the Council of State itself mentions so that we are now in a time of destiny – and then there is no news about the instruments. There are no new measures. There is no correction of the course, either in a more offensive or less offensive direction. It was just a repetition of something that you've heard many times before. Despite the fact that some of the projects that were launched have not achieved results, they seem to be a showdown that one has at least the ambitions in order. But this debate must be about what action it is that works and what we are going to continue with, and what action it is that does not work, and where one should then adjust the rate. The progress party would have liked to have been in a new climate deal, precisely because we believe that we have the politically incorrect approach that allows us to actually shake up some of the political correctness and make sure that a few projects that produce better results compared to the money, and where we actually also dare to shoot some sacred cows in the Norwegian debate. There are, above all, some paradoxes in what arises. I just want to show here that it's not like one side is sacred to the skin, or that's exactly what it is, and that the other side is just black – or black grey, as the Council of State tells us in the Advance Party and the Right as in the Newspaper today. So the Progress Party and the Right are criticised for being for oil operations, despite the fact that the Workers' Party is too, despite the fact that the Government itself is part of a government that supports the Goliath project, and despite the Council of State itself is glad that there will be oil activities in Ghana. But it's cruel if the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about oil. The government parties have said in a budget position that search activity must be maintained, but it is quite cruel if the Progress Party says that we want search activity on Norwegian pedestal. We have a government that sends the oil minister to Mexicogolfen to sell oil service, but it's bad when the Progress Party talks nicely about the oil service industry. We're sending the Prime Minister to Brazil to sell in the oil service industry, but it's bad when the Progress Party talks about it. And not least, we have a government where the Environment Minister goes out and is a spokesperson in the case of oil sand, but the government does not raise a finger either for or against the project, and thus appears to be a passive champion of what StatoilHydro does. So I want to ask myself the hypocrisy that comes from the Council of State in this debate. When he realizes that there is a green thread through the Government's crisis policy, it is only enough to remember what is the primary area of activity of Aker Solutions. It is not renewable energy; it is oil activity. With this, I hope that we can get a certain degree of soberness in this debate, even if I expect that the Council of State response will be to blackmail the Progress Party. My starting point here is to solve the CO2 question, one has to solve the energy question. It's about the way we produce and use energy – in households, in transport and in industry. Then we must have a realistic approach to energy supply. We can't just cut today's energy use and think that people won't miss the energy on the day it's not in the socket – or are not in the petrol pump. When a Council of State in Today's Business today almost denies that the energy issue is fundamental throughout the CO2 debate, I just have to ask the Council of State in its contribution to say where the energy will come from. When he says that there's no oil business here because you can find other ways to get energy, I ask you to get the alternatives. In its World Energy Outlook 2008, the IEA, the International Energy Agency, has a scenario for achieving the Intergovernmental Panel’s two-degree target. They say that the bet on an ac, which will stand for approx. half of the measures, focus on CO2 clean-up, on renewable energy and on nuclear energy are the important measures. But the IEA also says that the gas consumption in the next 20 years will continue to increase in relation to today, even within this scenario. Oil consumption will be slightly reduced, but coal is the important area. We must include this in the big energy and climate debate that we also have in Norway, and not believe that if we just cut oil and gas, it will still be the same reduction in coal as the IEA requires. The head of the IEA investigation said that Norway needs to produce as much oil and gas as it can, because no one does it better than us, and in their scenario this is needed if you are to phase out coal. It is not an alternative to believe that one can phase out nuclear power, oil, gas and coal and replace it with renewable energy. It's just to look at the numbers for the Norwegian base. Oil and gas production in Norway in 2007 corresponds to the energy generated by most modern wind turbines – 335,000 of them – and Norway is only a small oil and gas producer in the big world picture. Yeah, we're a big exporter, because we're using very little ourselves, but if one takes the big market, where most people use what they produce, Norway's share is small. It is not realistic to believe that over a decade one can replace oil, gas and coal with renewable energy. I also don't think keeping the world's poor down in poverty is an instrument that the Minister of Development neither wants nor really wants to work for, but it's just the full consequence of a policy where it is that if only Norway cuts the oil and gas business, the climate gets much better. It's enough to ask StatoilHydro, where the state is the main shareholder. What does StatoilHydro do with their capital, if they do not have access to seek more on Norwegian pedestal, if they are not allowed to produce more on Norwegian pedestal? Their answer is quite clear. Their capital goes where they get the best profitability of the investment, and it's per. today in oil and gas activities abroad. It's not sea windmills that anyone here wants. In the case of renewable energy, Norway has a high potential. The Progress Party believes it should be exploited much better, both from a CO2 perspective and not least because of energy supply – not necessarily so much domestically, but because we have a large export potential with what we can build in the future. The propulsion party will realise more of the hydropower potential. There is a large potential in small-scale power, at approx. 10 to 15 TWh, which can be exploited over time. We can and should discuss large hydropower deployments again, rather than automatically saying that we want to protect all new projects. We have to take into account the technology that exists. The attitudes of the hydropower industry today are that it is a completely different approach from that one 20 years ago. Then we have to look at what kind of totality one can achieve in terms of exploiting water resources and caring for environmental resources. It can do in a much better way today than 20 years ago. Therefore, protection is not necessarily the only answer in an environmental debate. Also, with regard to the upgrading and upgrading of existing hydropower plants, the potential is very high and we should stimulate much more. This can be combined, in particular, with the development of an industrial power regime. The government will soon have to decide whether the fight against hydropower is more important than the fight for Norwegian industrial power. The Progress Party will have a careful development of wind power. It is important that the projects have a local acceptance and that they operate in relation to the mains power supply, both locally and not least in relation to the state network. Then it's important that we have a rational approach, where we make sure that it's the best projects that are realized quickly. Therefore, I still believe that one should support the proposal that the Progress Party has had in recent years, and which was actually supported in the previous period by SV, to have a comprehensive wind energy plan – not to train this as much as possible, but to have a constructive and rational approach to it, so that one chooses the good projects, combines this with Enova support schemes, planning for NVE, developing networks for Statnet. So this has not been achieved because the other parties have said that we don't have time, now it's time to bet. But six to seven years later, one sees that the development of wind power in Norway has gone very late, precisely because no one has managed to combine the work of the authorities, and is able to get an acceptance locally where wind power can be reasonable. We want to bet on bioenergy. This can provide local employment and exploitation of natural resources. At the same time, I would warn against saying that the most important thing about bioenergy is how many we can employ. It must not be that we take the Soviet supermarket approach, where the most important thing is to have a lot of employees even if you don't have goods. If you have a five hundred men who are going to produce 1 TWh with bioenergy, if they make $400,000, you'll get compensation of 20 dollars per person. kWh. The less one manages to work, the more profitable bioenergy is. The larger the prevalence, the more people employed get one at the bottom that is profitable. We don't have to have 1 TW and it's going to be employed as much as possible. We have to have 1 TW that is produced as efficiently as possible. That's why we want to build sense, with local heating projects. We want heat to be included in a support regime. The important thing, too, is that this can release electricity that we can join in on the European market and make far more money for AS Norway. Success in this area is not about who has the greatest ambitions, or who grants the most, success is about which system works best. It must also be part of the climate work ahead. An overall industry wants technology-neutral support schemes. But the government has chosen selective technologies and bureaucracy management. A boast of record appropriations for Enova, the Council of State did it on Tuesday. The result is equally full that we have gone from a record-breaking small-scale deployment in 2005, last year with the Bondevik government, to the completion of one small-scale power plant last year. So one has done the trick of destroying a growing market, despite great ambitions politically. One has a government that boasts of wind power, but the result is that it has been built zero windmills that have received the concession of today's government. Not one windmill has been realized because of the red-green policy. Then it is not useful as the Council of State Riis-Johansen in yesterday's Question Time to point out that the List had been granted a concession. There is no reason to believe that this is being built, because the framework conditions are not in place. On the bioenergy front were several from the Progress Party down and visited AT Skog in Telemark. They have a lot of good projects, it's just realized one in Egersund. But they say that with the framework conditions that are now, they have to make a decision this summer whether this is an area they're going to bet on, because the expectations that the government came up with are not met. The government must boast of the district heating sector, where this happens a little. Green certificates must be the tool we put on, but it must not just be a show-off tool in presentations and presentations for the Storting. All parties are for that. But why isn't it in place? It is the government's responsibility because one has chosen to exclude some technologies in Norway that one has included in Sweden. Then one of these uneven burden distributions that Prime Minister Stoltenberg has used as an argument, thus not getting the system in place. It has weakened Norwegian investment in renewable energy. We are now, of course, waiting for Sweden to clarify its obligations in relation to the EU's renewable directive. But has Norway clarified its obligations? No, we don't. The day Sweden does it and is waiting for Norway, we have to start the same process. It just shows that there is a lot of talk when we boast of how great we are at renewable energy in Norway. The framework conditions and framework are not in line with ambitions. It must be an important point if we are to achieve a good climate policy. The Progress Party would like to contribute to improvements in this area if we are invited to discuss a climate settlement. We also want research on renewable energy. It must have conditions other than mature technology. But I get a little skeptical when State Councillor Solheim on TV 2 yesterday said he would have a large expansion of sea wind in a few years. He may be mistaken, but then there are a few issues that arise immediately, for example. infrastructure. Statnet has not spent any money building infrastructure for sea wind over the next ten years. When Statnett has in recent years asked for capital injection in order to support projects, they have been denied by this government. It's not useful to come and make visions about sea wind turbines when you don't have the infrastructure to transport the current. In addition, we need to discuss a support regime. If you're going to get what Sjur Bratland in StatoilHydro said, for example. construct a wind farm with 10 MW wind turbines, which will produce a power generation of approximately 5 MW wind turbines. 2 TWh a year, it will cost 2 billion kroner in annual subsidies. State power says they need at least $1 per. kWh. It may be worth it if we have great faith in it. But what's that going to do? I don't think a great deal of sea wind is the best climate action and one of the best energy measures in the short term. I think one has to take a few more years to get the technology to be cost-effective before one puts it in place. One thing is to build bottom-solid sea windmills like a do on the continent and in England. There's a completely different profitability and a completely different and smaller need for subsidies. There's a piece left for floating sea windmills. Instead, let's spend a little bit more money on wave power, let's spend more money on geothermal power. The Progress Party – although we know that we do not get a majority for it – would also have said: Let's look at how we can use the thorium resources. Let us remember that the IEA says that nuclear power is actually a more important instrument than CO2 cleaning in their large perspective – not because we are building nuclear power in Norway today, as the State Council of Solheim gives the impression in the Newspaper, but because all of our neighbouring countries have nuclear power, except Denmark. We see that in all neighbouring countries, except Germany, there has been a change in the direction of building more nuclear power. We also know that several German political parties are moving towards turning into nuclear power policy. Then it is in our own interest to first see how we can ensure that Norwegian thorium resources become a better alternative than anything else, and how Norway can ensure that a user and build the most secure nuclear power possible in our neighbouring country and have the best possible waste management. Then thorium is a very interesting track, as the Thorium Committee's report showed. Within an entity, all batches boast. Several of us were at a conference at Oslo Plaza last Friday. There is no doubt that a survey is one of the best measures we can take. The problem for industry, which has a great potential, is that they have to have framework conditions that make them know they exist in 20 years' time. No one is taking large increases today with 20–30 years of depreciation if they are uncertain as to what framework conditions they have in 2012. As a result, the industrial power regime and the CO2 quota strategy are, in fact, an important part of climate and CO2 policy in terms of ensuring competitive framework conditions. In addition, we need a support regime that reflects that an increment is also valued. So now we have an opportunity where the industry, by building wind power, can get out a lot more money than if one takes an increase. One should equate this by having technology-neutral mechanisms that make the build-up of power and the reduction of energy consumption equal, and that one does so independently of the technology used. The Progress Party will therefore propose this, and there we could do a lot to get realistic CO2 cuts in Norway. CO2 cleaning was taken up by the Council of State. The Progress Party will have good research projects on CO2 cleaning, so we can get a technology that is commercialised. This must be more important than a government project. I noticed that the Council of State talked a lot about Mongstad in the presentation, and gave the impression that it would come first, then Kårstø would come later. In this case it is a long walk for SV, which should have been cleaned on Kårstø in 2009 and cleaned on Mongstad from day one. Thus, the Council of State's speech was a signal to postpone the clean-up on Kårstø. I don't think that's unreasonable. Let's do that, and rather spend the money Kårstø would cost, to speed up other research projects and build more renewable energy, which will provide far more CO2 cut and much more technology development than one can get on Kårstø. Let's also get a complete CO2 debate in Stortinget – a strategy debate – so that one avoids this surreptitious one has had around Kårstø, where we ensure that there are clear framework conditions for other projects. La Industriekraft Møre knows what framework conditions they actually meet if they want to build a gas power plant and do not have cleaning from day one. Let's get an explanation why Hammerfest Energia and Sargas were denied their application to build a gas power plant with cleaning from day one. So now you get a refusal if you come up with a proposal to build without cleaning, but you will certainly also get a refusal if you come up with a proposal to build with cleaning. It can't be like that. Let's also have a discussion about the infrastructure for CO2 pipes. How will the coal-fired power plant in Husnes and Haugaland proceed with CO2 cleaning? How is a few to the dimensions of CO2 pipes from Kårstø, so that one actually gets all the other projects? How should a Norwegian environment be involved, which, at the consultation in the Swedish Energy and Environment Committee, said that they did not experience their involvement in the Mongstad process, in contrast to what the Council of State claimed? We must also have a debate on oil fires. Yes, let's rather, says the Progress Party, have a ceiling on oil fire emissions, so that one can actually have the infrastructure in place, and use bio-fire oil, which is produced by several producers, but which is now omitted. Let's have a debate on the quota trading system that makes the industry in Norway have a future. As long as the country only sells the allowances they do not allocate, there is no climate effect if one allocates more to the industry free of charge compared to what is today. Let's get into a policy that works, not just a policy where there is maximum ambition. The Progress Party would like to join in on a climate deal, if there are real negotiations, but then we need to be invited first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e248	The President will point out that it has previously been clubbed for the word ‘hypocrisy’ and that it is an expression that should not be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e251	If the world does not agree on measures that could stop the growth of global climate emissions, we are at risk of climate change coming out of control. It will have disastrous consequences. There is reason to fear that the average earth temperature will increase by five to six degrees over pre-industrial time. This will lead to extensive drought, food shortages, rising sea levels and the spread of diseases. Fortunately, there is still time to act, but it must happen quickly. The Intergovernmental Panel says that global greenhouse gas emissions must reach the peak and start to decline by 2015. It is therefore very important that the Copenhagen climate summit this year be a success. The Council of State presentation is a good description of the current situation and the importance of acting, but it is strongly deficient in its actions and not least the follow-up to our own climate settlement. For the right, it is important that we get measures that enable us to achieve the objectives. The two-degree target must be absolute. Therefore, the response to the financial crisis must provide the basis for new growth, but a green growth that takes the climate challenges seriously. We need to combine action against the financial crisis with a new approach to climate change. There is much we can do both to increase activity and create more jobs in the economy while laying the basis for lower greenhouse gas emissions. This applies, inter alia, to: in the production of new renewable energy. A vital measure to address climate challenges is to move from today's use of fossil energy to a strong increase in the production of renewable energy sources. Norway has some of the world’s largest energy resources per year. built-in in the case of renewable energy. The hydropower has ensured that our power supply today is almost 100 pst. renewable. We have Europe's largest wind power resources along the coast. We have significant opportunities in our forests, which are growing every year, to increase the use of bioenergy. We have wave energy, we have tides, and we even have great expertise in solar energy. We therefore have a significant responsibility to contribute our renewable resources to the energy conversion that needs to come if we are to avoid severe climate change. The government, and even the Council of State, is full of words, but delivers far too few results. Companies like Fred. Olsen Renewables, Hammerfest Energie and the state's own company, Statkraft, chooses to use their renewable energy investment funds in our neighbouring countries rather than in Norway. Of course, this happens because the Norwegian aid schemes are too poor. The Councils of State appear today in the newspaper as one of the leading guardians of double morality. His own statement on Tuesday was made a few minutes after the same council had promoted a case for the Stortinget about Goliath and opening up a completely new sea for oil. The Council of State also makes a serious mistake when he goes to the right because we want to open up Northland VII, Troms II and the whole of Northland VI. ‘The starting point of the Government’s strategy for meeting the climate dilemma in the field of energy is that this is a responsibility that we all have to take and not just producers and exporters of fossil fuels. As a result of Norwegian regulations on emissions to air and water, emissions per unit of energy on Norwegian soil are much lower than the world average. Furthermore, oil and gas activities have established a measure of zero environmentally hazardous emissions at sea. In recent years, oil activities have implemented a number of measures to reduce such emissions. With the strict requirements applicable to Norwegian cap, operational emissions from petroleum activities are not expected to contribute to an increase in pollution levels. As long as demand increases globally, global energy production is not reduced. Climate emissions may increase if Norwegian oil and gas are replaced by more polluting production elsewhere. Exports of Norwegian gas can contribute to the reduction of Europe’s coal consumption and hence climate emissions.’» This is very well said, and it is stated in the Government's own announcement of foreign policy, which I suppose the Council of State has also read – St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, interests, responsibilities and opportunities. The new right-hand programme shows that it is actually possible for Norway to be both a major oil and gas producer while at the same time having an ambitious climate policy. It is not true that oil exploration in North Norway is not possible to reconcile with the goal of stabilising global warming, to reach the two-degree target. The International Energy Agency's global energy demand forecast by 2030 states that although the world's country agrees on measures to stabilise greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that limits global warming to 2 °C, the demand for oil and gas by 2030 will be 3 pst, respectively. and 12 pst. higher than in 2005. Similarly, the Stern report and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have been established. This means that although we succeed in combating climate change, the world’s oil and gas consumption in 20 years will not be much lower than it is today. The question will be where this oil and gas will come from. Norwegian oil and gas production is the world's purest. We're gonna be proud of that. Oil and gas production in the Middle East emits more than 50 pst. CO2 per unit the unit of oil and gas produced than the Norwegian cap, and from Russia the emissions are two to three times as high. The Council of State itself is obviously satisfied with its own efforts to honour those who have intended to vote against the StatoilHydro General Assembly in respect of the oil sand project in Canada. But it happens at the same time that the Council of State's colleague and the entire Government agree to vote yes. The state gets what they want. The state has, as we know, 67 pst. ownership. It is tempting to draw one word into the picture, which the representative Solvik-Olsen also drew out, but which was clubbed, namely the word ‘hyclery’. Norway, as one of the world’s leading exporters of fossil energy, has a responsibility to clean up afterwards and develop a cost-effective technology for the capture and storage of CO2. But the fact is that despite significant rhetoric, there's not going to be any decision to capture as much as one gram of CO2 in this grossing-up period. The decision on the capture and storage of CO2 from the gas power plant on Kårstø, which the Soria Moria Declaration stated was due in 2009, will be taken only in the third quarter of this year, so that the Government can scrape the project after the elections. The size has just unanimously decided to set up a test centre for capture and storage in Mongstad, but all CO2 will be released immediately. It will be almost like when I caught crabs in the summer of my childhood in the South. Right is a technology-optimistic party. We want to do a lot more research and deploy new technologies quickly. The government's decline in research will have consequences not only for Norwegian long-term value creation but also for the environment. LED technology is an excellent example of how technological progress has a major environmental impact. It is incomprehensible that the Government does not follow up on what has previously been a common goal, 3 pst. for research. I also think it is extremely problematic and on the edge of the double moral that today's government does not want to delete the quotas of 13,5 million tonnes of CO2 we have, but wants to use them to get funds to the Norwegian state, which shows how hollow the rhetoric from today's government is actually. In conclusion, I would like to remind the Council of State that, among other things, the climate is not saved. saving Norwegian watercourses. Of course, we're going to have a gentle development of Norwegian watercourses, but it's a double standard that the government wants to protect watercourses at home, while at the same time buying out of the quota obligations by financing the expansion of watercourses in China and developing countries. It is tempting to ask the Council of State, where does he think the watercourses are most gentle? We need to put in climate instruments where they work, where they actually produce the greatest results, and where we get the biggest reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. As of 2013, Norway is likely to be part of the new EU ETS. For the sectors covered, such as oil and gas extraction, most of the industry and energy production, the total emissions are determined by the quota ceiling at EU level. This means that national measures in this area, such as the electrification of the cap and the capture of CO2 in industry, only move emissions within the EU ETS and therefore do not result in a net reduction. Instead, we should increase efforts where they are the most emission-reducing, as for transport. Then we can do what Kristin Halvorsen won't do, that's to use some of our oil billions, as I also said, to delete quotas. We must take action as monks. We can't just drown a lack of will and ability in words. There is therefore a need for a new government and a new environmental policy at the end of the harvest. Let me just finish by saying that this country has a huge renewable resource that screams after being put into use. It is very special that today's government does not see it in an environmental perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e313	The President would point out that an indirect use or a wrapping of the word ‘hypocrisy’ does not mean that the term can be used. On the other hand, the President is in doubt that it must be allowed to use the word 'double moral'.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e318	It's interesting to listen to the Right when they're out of government. They then have some estimates of good environmental policies, including: on CO2 capture, where they are now some with SV. In the election campaign in 2005, they were against this, because it was too expensive. But it's getting exciting when the Right is going to take this climate problem seriously in a government with the Progress Party, because that's what Plan A is, I understand, right now after the National Meeting. There'll be a lot of good environmental policies, I think. Then I want to go to the oil capital. There was the Minister of the Environment and I yesterday and cost us at Elbil-messa, and we were looking at a giant windmill, Hywind. I think that the Environment Minister cost most when he got to drive a little black bubble, an old crowd car that said "Police" on, with blue lights, that four young girls from Bodø had made into an electric car, and that shows how easy it is to switch from fossil to renewable. He smiled wide, the Environment Minister, as he got to drive around in the great bubble. So we were also in Åmøyfjorden and looked at a gigantic windmill. Of course, the climate crisis is very serious, and we need to have some new measures. I mean what one sees when one sees this heavy windmill, is that if one puts in even more measures to bring about new renewables, it becomes a future where we can link the climate crisis and the financial crisis, and where we can actually create a lot of new jobs. At Hydro Karmøy, you tell people because there's no demand. But as the project leader here, Sjur Bratland, said, Hydro Karmøy can quickly be involved in several wind projects nationally, and of course also internationally, when that market comes. So the point of investing in this new industry more than we've done so far is important. And so, as SV is clear - even in today's business today at the time of the signature - we have to use our ownership in a different way to what we are doing today, to create exactly the environmental standards that we want. Therefore, SV believes that Statoil has to stop lobbing in order to expand the Lofoten and the Vesterål. They have to stop buying projects that pollute more, like the oil sand project in Canada. Rather, they must invest more in what we saw yesterday, simply sea windmills, bioenergy, forward-looking energy. I found it regrettable – and it is to the extent that criticism also for my government – that the green certificates did not come into place. SV got multiples with Bondevik II in 2002 for green certificates. Steensnæs and Widvey never managed to bring the green certificates, and neither have we. I thought I should work hard to get to the moment before the summer, and I understand that the Minister of Oil and Energy is doing that. But it should have come before. I think we might need to look at other systems in addition to green certificates. I see that the English are now very good at getting wind/waves, because it gives great support to production. At EVS – Congress of Electric Vehicles – in Stavanger all major car manufacturers are present. They are there because they understand that they now need to convert their production into more environmentally friendly production, where one does not depend on fossil fuels. There is no other SV suggests when we want to ban new purchases in 2015 – things that Arnold Schwarzenegger and California have been carrying for many years, and congressmen now propose the corresponding otherwise in the United States, namely that 50 pst. of the new car dealership in 2012 shall be flexible. This is not very radical, because it is clear that this is what the car manufacturers want. But here, for example, is a shadow. The party of progress escaped, because they are against progress. On the transport front we must take a grip forward. Rogaland SV has been working for 15 years for the lightning train, we think we can move a lot of road and air traffic over on the lightning train if we just build it. I hope that we will be able to open the first lines of lightning trains in Norway at the 2014 anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e344	The Christian People's Party shares Solheim's view that 2009 is a year of destiny for slowing down global warming. Research shows that climate change is happening faster than we thought just a short time ago. The Arctic temperature is rising, the glaciers are melting, and we have more drought, affecting agricultural production and natural diversity. Countries buy up land, land rents agricultural land in other countries in order to feed its population in 2050. Crisis signals are becoming many. Despite this, the Government does not announce any new climate measures in the statement. The financial crisis must be used to start a new, necessary transition towards the low-carbon society. I welcome the fact that the decisions we are making today, including the short-term ones, are crucial for our becoming a low-carbon economy. I thank you for the invitation to new talks about a climate settlement in 2010, although I think it is optimistic to invite on behalf of a red-green government so long after the election. Hopefully, the invitation will go the other way. The climate agreement was important. Christian People's Party, Left and Right managed to drag the Government in the right direction, but it was just the first step, and a new climate settlement must be even more concrete. I do not doubt the commitment of the Minister for the Environment to climate policy. But to me, it seems quite clear that the commitment has not infected the rest of the government in a notable way. Where has the climate exposure become when the oil and energy minister refuses to support a shareholder proposal at the StatoilHydro general meeting that says the company should withdraw from the dirty oil sand industry in Canada? Where is the climate exposure when the Norwegian Government announces the opening of vulnerable areas in the Arctic for oil extraction? And where is the climate exposure when the Government presents a plan for the expansion and operation of the Goliath field in the Barents Sea, which increases the already sky-high greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian Socket? These are three examples drawn from political issues and decisions promoted by the Red-Green Government over the past week. Visions must be followed up in concrete action, unfortunately for the climate, last week's government decisions have been bad decisions for the climate. The Council of State stated in its statement that he fundamentally disagreed with the criticisms made against the Government’s use of aid for climate action. The Christian People's Party is responsible for this criticism, and the Council of State would like to disagree. But I think the government is thinking wrong when it takes money that is intended for food, medicine and schooling for all the world's poor, and spends it on trees and CO2 capture facilities. Can't we afford both? This is the reverse Robin Hood principle: the government takes from the poor, and spends the money to limit the damage of rich countries' greenhouse gas emissions and over-consumption. The climate agreement was important, but the Christian People's Party is not satisfied with the follow-up of the Government. A decade after the conclusion of the agreement, the Government has committed a breach of contract in a number of areas: No renewable energy support system has been submitted that is close to what they wrote in the agreement. No emission-free power plans have been promoted for the petroleum sector, as promised in the agreement. No contingency plan for climate research has been submitted. Nor has an action plan for the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources to heating been presented. – That's how I could keep going. In short, there are many breaches. On this basis, I think the Council of State is quite pompous and easy to see when he finds that Norway with the red-green government has begun to run after many years of climate change. I perceive the situation so that Solheim has started a rhetorical race, while the rest of the government continues the climate decline. They don't know where they are, what they're called, where they're going or what they should be doing. In order to help this, I would suggest that the government parties vote in favour of many of the good representative proposals now under consideration in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. If these are adopted, they will fit well into the Council's climate rhetoric. While we are waiting for the 2020 Climate Action Plan, we can at least take action that we know will work. Or is it that the Government wants to wait most of all? Solvency Horne had taken over the president's seat here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e398	On Tuesday, the Minister for the Environment and Development made progress on climate policy for the Government and the situation. There is little doubt in the distribution that the climate situation on earth is serious, and the important gap is melting at an alarming speed, the danger of sea level rise is greater than we have so far believed, and we are in a hurry to reverse developments. It's said that an accident rarely comes alone, and neither does the climate crisis. We have a food crisis that is going to become more and more serious with explosive population growth. A few days ago, one of Norway's major newspapers wrote that the population of the earth is increasing by 200,000 people per year. day(s) The impact of climate change is affected by this. At the top comes the financial crisis. The climate crisis, the food crisis and the financial crisis are intertwined, and they are influenced by each other. Emissions from the transport sector must be e.g.: down. Biofuels are claimed to be part of the solution, but it does not help if biofuels create another problem, so to speak, by delaying food production, which results in increased food prices. Food production has to rise, but if it occurs in areas where it was previously rainforest, it increases climate crisis. So we need investment in renewable energy, and we need investment to raise food production – but then the financial crisis can dampen these investments. So the crises are linked to each other. The challenge is to turn these relationships from negative to positive spirals, as well as you can. The emphasising of long-term and viable solutions has never been more important. Converting to green working life, green workplaces and green commerce is not only necessary to respond to climate crisis, but can also lead to economic growth. On Tuesday, the Minister stressed that the economy is going back on track — but not back on track. The centre party believes that a green transformation and innovation of all parts of Norwegian business is necessary to achieve the objectives we have seen in climate policy. As a bonus, workplaces and settlements come across the whole country. In Norway, we are unlikely to be rich in natural resources. We have large amounts of unused energy, especially renewable energy. The potential of bioenergy, wind power, water power and other environmentally friendly energy sources is enormous. Here we have to play on layers with nature: we can't house energy without natural interference. The energy systems must have one place to stand, and in order to bring the energy forward, networks and cables are needed. At the same time, we also have valuable natural areas to take care of. The production of renewable energy must be one of Norway's main areas of action in the global green climate challenge. In Norway we have spent good money on petroleum business. Therefore, we also have a moral responsibility to meet the global problems created by the major CO2 emissions. Greenhouse gas emissions affect future food production on earth. Greenhouse gas emissions must be cut. In global climate policy, we need to recognise that it is not possible to produce food entirely without emissions of greenhouse gases. The center party believes that the climate crisis cannot be resolved without finding a solution to the food crisis. Math security is an absolute commitment to closing up with climate policy, because we can't solve climate work without people eating. Today, nearly a billion people in the world do not have that privilege. This recognition must be included in international climate work. In addition to contributing internationally to ensuring a binding climate agreement, contributing with renewable energy, contributing with technology and knowledge, we have a responsibility to intervene in own countries. Today, the Gloppe municipality in Sogn and Fjordane is informed that one of the kindergartens in the municipality is receiving support for energy efficiency measures. A small, small drop in the big sea, but the sea just consists of drops. We must have a right of action and a pragmatic relationship with climate action, concrete measures that show that, as a rich country, we also take responsibility in the work: energy efficiency, renewable energy production, wind, water and bio, transport electrification, electricity to the base, bioenergy for heating, storage of CO2 – all these are drops in Norwegian context, but together we are involved in making a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e425	The climate policy statement that was held in the United Kingdom recently was important. It took into account the greatest challenge of our time and contained a good description of the situation we are facing and the course of development we can calculate with, if not the necessary job is done to reduce emissions. The left had great expectations for the presentation. It is a paradox that it has barely received attention in the public space. «Heavily and slowly in the field of climate policy», wrote the Chairmanship of the Address Paper. Unfortunately, that is a good description. The Council of State presented for one hour what I call a good overview of the climate challenges and changes that are going on. However, despite the seriousness of the matter raised by the Council of State, there was not a single new measure that would correspond to the expectations that could now be set out in the Norwegian environmental policy, which the Council of State described. What emerged as new measures in the presentation was a description of progress in the work on actions already known or actions in the climate agreement. When it could act as new measures, it is because measures that should already have been implemented now have a timetable in place. We have an Environment Minister who has good insight, a great commitment, who is being listened to when he talks about environmental and climate issues internationally, but who does not provide the necessary room for action by the government of which he is part. The seriousness of the challenges we face has increased since we entered into the climate agreement. There is a need to go more offensively to work, but the government does not deliver. That's the main conclusion we can draw from the climate statement. The councils were generous and commended the partners in the Christian People's Party, Left and Right to contribute to bringing about a climate settlement. That's good, and that's right. But the Council of State has also made it an important part of its message that it is the red-green government that has speeded up climate policy work in Norway. This is not related to the close story. When the government presented its climate announcement, it was largely only in the Progress Party it was cheering. The three parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left put forward a list of over 60 actions on which they wanted to get the Government to have a more offensive policy. We were able to wear and pull and keep it going for a long time, so we got the government on a little over 30 of these points. We got a result that at least many believe is a good starting point for doing climate work in Norway. And so the Council of State is able to say that it was the government that made the announcement, which is responsible for a more offensive policy than those that were the partners of the agreement and only got the government on half of the points that we wanted to have them on. This is simply not related, and it is because it is wrong! In addition, the Bondevik II government did a lot that we can absolutely acknowledge. We did not allow emissions at any new gas power plant that was started up, as opposed to today's government. However, I cannot go further on that list, it does not allow time. The left has called for a new climate settlement. It was positive in the statement from the Council of State, and that's good. But I don't understand why we're going to wait until 2010 with a job that we can start with right now. We do not lack insight into what is needed to speed up renewable energy production and what is needed to cut the various sectors where there is great potential for cutting. Moreover, there is a great need for the Government to follow up the points of the climate agreement that have so far not been followed up. Among other things, when it came to electrification and climate action in the petroleum industry, the Council of State stated that it would be included in the OED budget for 2010. In the climate agreement, it is agreed that the overview and the job should have been done in 2008. Unfortunately, there are a number of such points. We have also received input from both Bellona and Abelia who could make a good contribution to bringing about a more offensive climate policy than the Government stands for, and on which the Left now we want a common thank you to meet the major challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e445	I went to this debate with an open mind, because I heard the opposition after my statement saying that it was too weak when there were new measures. Therefore, I thought that I should have an open mind, listen to what the opposition had of proposals for action and see if there are any of them we should implement. I've been disappointed. I've heard a lot of criticism here and there of what the government stands for, and above all because we're doing too little, but I haven't heard a single constructive suggestion from the opposition about what we should do instead, and what more we should do. The next thing we come up with a proposal is that we should delete quotas in the international quota system on which Mr Gitmark was involved. It's a proposal that's very sound, but none of the opposition parties have ever incorporated into their budgets. Maybe it's because it costs so much money, with very little climate effect, that the opposition parties themselves don't think this was a proposal it was necessary to promote? Then came Solvik-Olsen with one proposal in a long list of measures that would drastically increase Norwegian emissions and would therefore completely undermine the climate agreement that the other parties have concluded. But between this he made one constructive, sensible proposal, and there is a much more need for a national wind energy plan in Norway. His own home country, Rogaland, has been pioneering here. They've made a wind power plan for Rogaland. I know that the South Dream Team is close by making the same thing. I think other states also need to make this, so that we can clarify anywhere what is the right location of future wind turbines. We need the same work offshore. Otherwise, I've just heard criticism, no new proposals. So I just have to say, I'm looking forward to the election campaign. For now it has been three years and eight months when the opposition has been completely free in every debate to compare the Government with Jesus Christ, find out that we too are sinful and in this picture not entirely live up to expectations. Now it is time for us to be able to compare two political alternatives to opinion in Norway — not just the government against the ideal demands, but two alternatives of people of flesh and blood. The hearing was thus expeditious. In the next four months, we have to allow ourselves to compare alternatives to the voters. The right turned to the back to be able to cooperate, not with the Left and Christian People's Party, but to be able to initiate cooperation with the Advance Party. It is therefore very clear that the voters in September are faced with a red-green option, which has done a lot in environmental policy and is going to do a lot more, and a blue-grey option, where environmental policy is a foreign word. Let me do some points. At the Court's national meeting, climate and environment were a foreign word. There was no involvement in the case. If a party that is not involved in the climate issue at the main event the party itself has, namely the national meeting, to cooperate with a party that denies the existence of climate change, it is not good to know what kind of policy will come out of it. Solvik-Olsen said when Al Gore got the peace prize, that this would only delight the environmental hysterists in SV. The party's own Vice-Chairman says to win votes to deny climate change. One cannot both make proposals on how to combat climate change and win votes on denying climate change. So in climate policy, we have a red-green alternative to a blue-grey, which will put it back strongly. The right said that nuclear energy would be extracted at its national meeting – once again an adaptation to the Progress Party. The party of progress has at least been so brave that some of its representatives have told us where we should be able to have nuclear power in Norway. Tord Lien has suggested that it should be in Hurricane or in Forest. That's the kind of concrete proposal we need, because if you make it clear where the nuclear power stations are going, it's at least possible for the voters to decide if they want it when you get to the election day. American and Swedish experience suggests that it is simply impossible to build new nuclear power plants anywhere other than where there is one already, simply because no one wants a nuclear power plant at their home. Then we have an alternative, the red-green, where two of the parties have said a clear no to oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Vestral. The third party has said to go through the material thoroughly in this area before taking a final position. So it's an alternative that we're going to go into – not if we're going to have oil drilling, it's all agreed, but where we're going to have oil drilling – that stands up to an alternative from the Right and the Advance Party, which will obviously have as much oil drilling as possible even in the most vulnerable areas as quickly as possible. This is not just about climate, but also about seabirds, fish, tourism and many other things. Let me finally mention protection, which is very important also in the context of climate. While the red-green government has now presented a natural diversity law, we have been protected by Oslomarka, it stands up against an alternative that actively counters protection, almost always in the case of the Progress Party, and a Right that in itself has often been for protection, but now says that water power expansion should be opened up in protected areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e473	State intervention shows the difficulty of discussing the environmental debate in a factual way. Governments listen to what he wants and ignore what he doesn't think is interesting. In my post I took up green certificates. The small point is that there is a concrete measure that will change the government’s policy. I brought up technology-neutral renewable energy support schemes, and included the EEA industry. It will change the government's policy. I wanted to mention the use of tax incentives to make private households invest inincreased measures. It will change the government's policy. I have previously mentioned Albedo Tech's biomembrane with the Government, where one does not want to do an active grip in addition to referring to the Research Council. It's an active grip. I addressed CO2 framework conditions that would improve infrastructure development, which would make other actors, for example. the coal-fired power project at Husnes, the coal-fired power project at Haugalandand the gas power project at Industrikraft Møre, could be involved. Couldn't the Council of States bring it? Is it the dialect of the undersigned who is the problem of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e485	The problem is the total contradictions between the statements made by the representative of Solvik-Olsen. It wouldn't help if he were to speak the language from the very best west. It would be equally confused. For example, the representative Solvik-Olsen starts by saying that he is in favour of technology-neutral support schemes, and then in detail what technologies he personally trusts, which technologies we should invest in, and which technologies we should not invest in. In the questionnaire last week, the representative went so far that he thought I should intervene directly in a single matter to provide support for a very specific technology. Yes, it is a technology I have considerable faith in, but he believes the technology neutral should be waived on the first and best occasion when it suits the representative himself. Such contradictions cannot be based on any policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e492	Let me just first say that there was a significant environmental exposure at the Right National Meeting, but I never registered that the Council of State was present! We also concluded that climate action and the two-degree target are not contrary to the further development of the Norwegian petroleum industry. It is evident that the Council of State is in doubt about both the International Energy Agency, the Stern report and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change when they highlight the importance of Norwegian oil and gas in the future. Let me return to oil sand, because the Council of State shows so clearly that there is a great difference between his own rhetoric and what the Government actually does. The councils go so far as to honour those who have intended to vote no at the General Assembly of StatoilHydro. Why doesn't the Council of State also take a talk with its own colleague, Terje Riis-Johansen, and get the state to vote against StatoilHydro's commitment to oil sand in Canada?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e501	There are significant problems of principle relating to the role of the State as its owner if the State is to enter into individual dispositions of the companies owned by the State. This is why there has been a long tradition in Norway not to do so. It may be that the time has come to discuss that tradition, but a broad majority of the Biggest has stood by it. In addition, I have made it clear what I think almost all the world's environmental protection ministers would think that these are very questionable projects with major local pollution problems and even more with major international problems. It must be possible to maintain both some basic principles of governance and to ameliorate very clear environmental principles. Then I just have to say that I have the confidence in the Norwegian press that when no media was able to bring the environmental exposure to the Right National Meeting, it was due to the fact that it was very absent. What I heard was commitment to was top tax and similar questions. It's allowed to discuss them too, but that's where the engagement in the Right National Meeting was. It was transportation, school and tax – we didn't hear anything about the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e510	Like the government council, I'm looking forward to the election campaign, but I'm going to make a reservation for the school options for a place other than the main hall. The Council of State called for concrete proposals from the opposition. He will receive a very concrete proposal from me, and it is that he is following up his own speech to the SV national meeting, where he just made a balance between the consideration of the principle of ownership management and the consideration of the environment in the case of the oil sand project in Canada. He said, ‘We need to control Statoil more. I know it's controversial, and we have a long tradition of not getting involved in business decisions. I think we need to look at this one more time. It is not acceptable that a nearly state-owned company sees its future in oil sands in Canada, and that such a state-owned company spends so little of its resources turning over to the new renewable energy sources.» At the general meeting of the company, which owns, the Council of State now has an opportunity to do what he said at the SV national meeting. Will he ensure that words become action, or is it such that the internal contradictions are probably as great in SV as they are in other parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e522	I think it's interesting that the Christian People's Party, which I've never known before, has now also begun to reflect around the same thing, namely that there might be reason for the state to consider how to go into and govern companies you're inside. We have a long tradition, for which there has been cross-political agreement in Stortinget, not to operate that kind of management in individual matters. But the time has come to reflect on it, and to find out if you might have to find ways to deal with it in the future that are different than they have been to now. But this is one of the questions we get a lot of opportunity to discuss in the election campaign, and I've made very clear a point of view about the oil sand project in Canada, which I think is shared by almost all of the environmental stakeholders. Let me also finally say that now there are four months left for the election. The government has answered factually questions after point for three years and eight months. We made a factual statement, but now it's also time, in the last four months, for the voters to see clearly the two options up against each other: the red-green environmental option versus the blue-grey anti-environment option.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e529	The Council of State appears to be the reigning Norwegian master of double communication. He is strongly critical of the oil sand plans of Statoil, but will not do anything to stop them. He is very enthusiastic about sea mills and renewable energy production, but Norway has one of the worst support systems in Europe, so that projects travel abroad. He wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, but promotes regular proposals that will increase them, including: Goliath expansion. There are errors that the Council of State says, that in the debate that has taken place today, no proposals have been made to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The left will provide a long list of such measures that we have previously presented to the Government, but not included in it, and some new measures. Many of them I am also convinced that we will join the Christian People's Party and the Right. Is the Government prepared to start a climate settlement II arrangement now, if presented to them by the contracting parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e536	This was a statement on how the Government – I would say point by point – implements the climate agreement that a large majority of the population has joined in. On most points, 100 pst is performed. or 110 pst. So there's some points where we're getting a little bit shorter than we would like. I have presented this openly, and then people can judge it, but I think the overall conclusion is that the government has come very far in implementing what we would like to do together. Then we have to look forward, because I think Kvassheim and I will agree in a moment that this is not enough, we need new and much stronger measures. All the parties should present it in the election campaign, so that the voters have a chance to know what the parties will do in the next four years. The work on Climate Change 2020 provides a scientific basis where we get all the material on the table and get a good and state decision in 2010. So it is not climate change 2020, as was said here, it is Climate change 2009 – that is, the measures that the autumn of 2009 believes are right for the period up to 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e541	Realising the debate is a challenge. Jørgen Randers, head of the Low-Emission Committee, has said the opposite of what Erik Solheim says here, namely, that the government does not deliver the climate agreement point by point, but we can leave that debate behind. The Council of State considered that the Progress Party has a self-contradictory policy. The Progress Party will have technology-neutral renewable energy support schemes – commercial projects. The fact that we say that there is likely to be more hydropower than wind power does not mean that the Progress Party prefers it, but it is just a consequence of how the market works and what the costs are. On the other hand, it is said that within R & D you have to choose a project, because you do not have a general support scheme that says that everyone who comes up with a project will get it. There's no inconsistency in this. The Council of State cannot understand the fact that it is actually possible to have a commercial approach in which all technologies are treated equally on green certificates, while at the same time saying that R & D must have some fields of activity. I would like to remind you that the State Council itself has started the CO2 project without conferences with professionals. He's said he's going to bet on windmills, but it's wrong to say he's going to bet on... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e554	The difference is that this government says very clearly that in some areas, active cooperation with industry is necessary to promote specific technologies. I believe that the whole idea of carbon capture and storage is such an example. The state takes the most important part of the costs in cooperation with Norwegian industry. You could think of similar bets in another area. I believe that the future can show that wind turbines are such an area in which we can combine the expertise built up by the oil industry, which we have in a wide range of maritime sectors in Norway – with wind turbines and a large area of investment. But this requires an active industrial policy and a strong state commitment. What I heard from Solvik-Olsen, who is not in touch, is the constant fact that you should be technology neutral, and that everyone should get equal support, but at the same time he deviates from this principle every time there appears a single thing where Solvik-Olsen thinks he can win voters. Let me just say in the end that when it comes to green certificates, there's a point that we're also sorry about. We would have liked to get to that point. It should have happened before. We have not been given the talks with the Swedes that we would like to have, but the Minister of Oil and Energy will deliver this by 1 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e563	The President would point out that ‘hanging in touch’ is not a parliamentary expression. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e568	In its presentation, the Minister for the Environment spent a lot of time on the big picture. It's important because our efforts, the means we use and the resources we use depend on us having a proper understanding of what we're facing. It is becoming a mantra now, but we must not stop saying it anyway: climate change threatens our security and well-being in a much more fundamental way than the threat of terror or a financial crisis can ever do. We know all about extreme weather, floods and droughts, but we may not know to what extent this is already happening. There are more people fleeing from climate change than from war and armed conflicts. I would like to say a little bit about biodiversity, since Stortinget now has a great right to treatment. Traditionally, there has been over-taxation and sequestration of habitats that have been a direct threat to our species. Now the UN says 20-30 pst. species of the world are indirectly threatened by climate change. That means ecosystems will collapse. That means that nature will begin to behave differently from what we're used to. It is clear that it is serious in itself, but there is still a lack of understanding of how much economic and human costs it will entail. In such a picture, it's clear that the verdict will always be that we're doing too little. We're never going to get there that we can say that we've done enough. But it should be said that a lot has happened in a very short time. There are probably many who have the same experience of the autumn of 2006 as me. Then one came into being if not sacred, so at least very powerful Trinity between Al Gore, the United Nations Climate Panel and the weather. It turned the international agenda around, and it also turned the agenda at home. The understanding became a different one. Climate became a valid and heavy argument in any political discussion. It hasn't always been like that – to express something carefully. It's not just with the understanding it's going forward. There is also a way forward with the instruments and with the solutions. Road traffic, said the Minister, is one of our greatest challenges. It is 25 pst. of our emissions. We can't clean every car. In the last few days, I have used to join the Viking Rally, a car race from Oslo to Stavanger with zero-emission cars. It marked the opening of the hydrogen road, which means you can now run on hydrogen from Oslo to Stavanger. It's important. That's one more piece we're there that we can mass-manufacture that type of car. But before you can produce mass, you have to know that the technology works. You have to get some cars out on the roads. You have to test the technology. It requires infrastructure. Therefore, the Norwegian HyNor project brings international attention. For example, Mazda has now brought several of his cars to test them out on our hydrogen path. It is clear that there are fires that have driven this project, but political support has also been important. The hydrogen station that now opened on Monday at the Desert in Oslo, there had not been any of it without the money that came through the last revision. So the team from the Workers' Party unfortunately couldn't win Viking Rally, but we're very pleased that we managed to beat Henning Solberg. Now a lot of the race went on in ideal time, so I think that's part of the explanation. But the most important experience was really the absurd feeling I got when, after three days in a zero-emission hydrogen car, we were going to get into a regular petrol car and know it was completely unnecessary. We know how to do it differently. Evolution is much faster than we might think. I'm pretty sure there won't be many decades until we all think it was really quite absurd that we had an entire fleet going on fossil fuel. Marine wind is another area of activity that can contribute to enormous emission reductions, not just in Norway. Almost everyone has become fascinated and enthusiastic about the potential that lies here. Fortunately, most of us are more impatient than the Solvik-Olsen representative. Clearly, this is a nine-hour job. There are major technological challenges. We're working on getting legislation in place. But now the first full-scale sea windmill is set up outside of Karmøy. The rotor blades are installed today, while we're sitting here, if I understand correctly. It could mark the start of a new energy standard. Pure force is becoming more and more valuable, with rising carbon prices, and not least the level of ambition of the EU renewable directive will contribute to it. It is clear that Norway will be covered by that Directive. December and Copenhagen are crucial for global climate change. I myself am cautiously optimistic. Of course, the role of the United States is crucial. Everyone has said it will take time with the United States. Everyone has said that they are not going to be ready for Copenhagen. Maybe they're not, but Obama's been surprised by the pace of her climate work. The United States is already playing a fundamentally different role than what they've done now. Norway is also important. The Norwegian funding proposal was very well received in Poznan. There's a serious discussion. It's an important contribution to getting text on the table and actually discuss something concrete. The main challenge in these negotiations is the fundamental distrust between North and South. Once again, it is clear that the US's position on this is important. But the Norwegian rain forest project is about to become what we want it to be. First of all, it is about large emission reductions, but equally important I think it is that this is a project that builds trust and shows willingness to pay, because we actually have to pay. I believe that the rainforest bet is definitely the most important thing that has come out of the climate agreement. When the climate agreement was concluded, there was a cross-political agreement that it was a start, that it had to be further worked with both objectives and instruments. Everyone said that. The climate agreement was not to be a sleeping cushion. That is why we have submitted evaluations along the way. There will be new knowledge – we already know – that will require us to revise our objectives. We know, for example. that the United Nations Climate Panel is now working on a new report that will probably produce even more frightening scenarios than what we have seen now, including: shall calculate the effect of self-strengthening effects. You haven't done that now. With the Klimakurkur and the job that SFT is doing now, we get a completely new assessment of the instruments – how effective they are and how much they will cost. They shall have a period of 1 November. It will give a new growth a very good starting point for building on the climate deal. There is a very important discussion going on about the balance between action at home and outside. Clearly, we need market-based instruments. Allowances as a tool are great for finding and channeling money into the cheapest projects. That's necessary, because we're going to have big cuts fast. But in these times of financial crisis, many people have talked about the market not being able to fix everything. The market has never managed innovation particularly well. That's no news. This is, of course, precisely for the same reason that it is so good to provide cost-effectiveness. For technology development is not cheap – on the contrary, it is very expensive. The CCS project is a very good example, I think, of a technology development project, a national measure, that takes place outside the framework of market-based instruments. We need both. So the reason for doing national action is very often about sweeping at your own door and about morals. High morals are fine, but I'm not so very concerned about it -- the last thing was maybe a little poorly formulated, President. But this is largely about our own business development, about giving ourselves incentives, the motivation to develop the technology that actually survives in a global market where the carbon price is rising and the climate-friendly solutions are becoming more and more sought after. Then there is a need for political breaking, discussion, to get the good solutions and to be able to keep interest and focus up. The worst thing that can happen in a political area is that you drown in an ant of goodwill, that everyone is in favour, everyone thinks it is fine – and everyone is totally uninterested. So you could say that the Progress Party has a kind of a role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e605	Clean air, clean seas and a balanced nature are among the basic common resources of men. We cannot leave to the market and free competition to take care of these common goods. Climate problems are the greatest environmental challenge of our time. At the same time, environmental problems are linked to the fight against poverty. I take it for granted that there are no political parties in Norway today that still do not believe that climate change is mostly man-made. What is worrying is that climate problems are easily becoming a non-issue in these financial crisis times, and it is easy to understand that many people have enough to do their own everyday life and have no resources left to think about climate problems and climate action. I fully agree with Councillor Erik Solheim that the deployment of President Obama has already given the United States a whole new impetus in American climate policy. The future will tell us that we so absolutely need the United States on the team, and the meeting in Copenhagen towards Christmas will hopefully give us good ambitious agreements. Global climate change is becoming more and more dramatic in the Arctic than elsewhere, and it is not possible to explain that the average temperature there has increased twice as much as in the rest of the world in the last ten years. It goes without saying that the consequences will worsen if greenhouse gas emissions are not drastically reduced. But – it's urgent. Norway shall cut global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst by 2020. of Norway’s 1990 emissions, and in 2030, we aim to be carbon-neutral. This is an ambitious goal. All parties, except the Advance Party, have committed themselves, and this government believes that Norway should achieve the objectives of the Climate Change Agreement. As we know, there are many measures involved. Whether to use many different solutions or to use a few, yes, the actors dispute. What everyone can agree on is the need for renewable energy production. It may, together with energy efficiency improvement, reduce the use of fossil fuels. But it is only to acknowledge that fossil energy sources will nevertheless play a major role in the world's energy supply for many, many years to come. Unfortunately, for many years to come, we will also have CO2 emissions. We need to focus more on reduction measures on what we call point emissions. This is what we find in the mainland industry, and not least in energy production on the oil platforms. The industry in Norway is important. Therefore, it is a good thing that Enova has granted a grant of 175 million. to Finnfjord melting plants for environmental action. This company has an environmental project that, once both phases have been completed, can restore more than 300 GWh and be CO2 free. It equals a two-thirds Alta power plant. That's how it's going to be done – good people and a powerful government. The potential of the industry is great. But the Norwegian industry has been doing good environmental work in its businesses for many years. In fact, the first climate agreement was concluded in 1997 with then Environment Minister Thorbjørn Berntsen. As a result, the specific greenhouse gas emissions from the aluminium industry were reduced by 62 pst. With regard to emissions on the socket, it is important that the polluting energy production on the platforms is replaced by environmentally friendly electricity from land. This must be a requirement for new installations where power is available. Accessibility needs to be increased along the whole coast of Norway. I am pleased with this government's commitment to developing wind turbines, which is part of the climate agreement, and that we get a billing proposal during the spring/summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e637	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e640	In my time in Stortinget, I have been in some climate debates. This I've listened to, and as usual it's been a bit of a humorous, fun, enjoyable debate with lots of big words that most people don't mean anything. At least that is what past experience shows. I remember a debate in 1989, and I remember what the various parties at that time had of goals. The objective of the Labour Party Government in 1989 was to reduce the growth of CO2 emissions in order to stabilise them during the 1990s and at the latest in 2000. The government expected emissions to be reduced after that. The right was aimed at stabilising CO2 emissions at 1989 levels by 2000. The working party supported this target in its configuration. The aim of the centre batch was to halve the CO2 emissions by the year 2000. SV had the aim of halving CO2 emissions by 2025, so they still have little time left, but it should have been lower than it was in 1990, and it has grown all the time since 1990. The Christian People's Party aimed at stabilising fossil fuel consumption by 1995. The left was lucky, they weren't in the Storting, but I know them right, also the left had dramaticly high targets. These parties have had a majority in the Grand Duchy since 1989. Developments have shown a huge difference between the objectives and the lack of concrete actions and the naming of actions. This debate has also been a big word about major actions and ‘action’, as Tore Nordtun called it, that major and significant ‘action’ must be done nationally, but to say what is to be done, concretely, only Ketil Solvik-Olsen has actually done. It would be interesting to hear the explanations from the Workers' Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party on why they have not been close to pursuing a policy that could lead to the goals they had in the old days. The growth in CO2 emissions has been steady despite the fact that several people thought that we should have achieved the targets of halting and partial decline in the year 2000, which is now nine years ago. When these parties have had a majority, why have they not been reached, and why should we believe in what these parties have said today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e666	I'm happy to be yellow – not red, not green, not blue, not gray – I'm happy to be yellow! The installation to the Solheim State Council clearly shows that we have a State Council of 50 p.m. State Council. For there can be no other reason why the Council of State has not received all the representative proposals that have been promoted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in recent years. Let me just remind the council of some. In the Committee we now have a proposal for a master plan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It shall be dealt with on 9 June of this year. We have a case that involves introducing an environmental car premium of NOK 25 000 for new cars, a proposal with which the Swedes have had good success. It shall be dealt with on 9 June of this year. We have proposed a comprehensive review of our waste policy, as the entire waste industry wanted. No, the government says, but tomorrow we'll know what the government wants with the deposit order to be imposed in six weeks' time. Six weeks the industry will be converted as a result of the landfill ban. We have proposed a plastic bag ban. We have made proposals on bulbs. It has been from yes to no to yes, but I am pleased that the Council of State is now listening and noting what proposals we have made. In the change of line between the Council of State and Høybrätten, where Høybrätten challenged the Council of State whether he would be involved and work for the Government to pull StatoilHydro out of the oil sand project at the General Assembly, the Council of State replied that this would be ample opportunity to discuss in the election campaign. The general meeting is on 19 May. So it's not in four months, it's May 19, and that's when the government has to use the power of ownership. So the Council of State finds it exciting that the Christian People's Party makes such proposals. The Christian People's Party, with its signature, challenged both the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for the Environment in October 2007. The Council of State made a concrete promise that on 1 October the Minister for Oil and Energy would deliver green certificates. But what is delivered? Is that the framework? Is that a deal? Or is it a scheme for green certificates? It doesn't say anything about the state council, nor does history tell anything about it. The challenge is that we need to get green certificates in place. We need to get the setup in place, not the framework agreement, which is what it looks like we're getting presented on 1 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e679	Let me just first comment on what was said by the Christian People's Party. The proposal on the master plan presented is for all practical purposes identical to our proposal on Climate Change, except that our climate action proposal is a proposal that will have a thorough review and underpinning through scientific processes and that all bodies in the Norwegian community are involved – in other words, a much better proposal. The proposal for a major scrapping of Norwegian cars one or two years before the electric car and plug-in hybrid cars enter the market, for a country that does not have its own car industry, is an environmentally poor proposal. This is a good proposal for economics and economics in countries that have a large car industry, like Germany, which they want to introduce, but it is a very bad environmental proposal one or two years before all the cars that we quickly enter the market arrive. It would tie people up to the crazy technologies now rather than wait a few years. Then I'm glad for Carl I. Hagen's contributions, because that finally gives us the opportunity to get the real contradictions of Norwegian politics up. It's true, as Carl I. Hagen says, that the 1990s, and especially the Bush period, were a lost period in international politics. That's exactly what Obama is now saying that not only is he going to get on the road with new measures, but he is going to compensate for eight years with faulty Bush policies, which the Progress Party agreed on point-by-point. We were in a long environmental hibernation, as I said in my presentation. All parties are responsible for it, but some parties have much more responsibility for that environmental downfall than others. When the red-green government came, we began to move forward quickly. Carl I. Hagen himself said in 1997 – I’ve prepared for these debates, because I’m looking forward to them in the election campaign – that in 10–15 years the fear and hysteria around the greenhouse effect will be a closed stage. We fear it much more now than we did when Carl I. Hagen said this. Al Gore is a «bluffmaker» and a «Christian foundationist», said Per Sandberg. I don't know why «Christian Foundationist» is a shell word – it's not necessarily for me, but it's obviously for the Advancement Party. ‘The only thing Al Gore does’ – and Al Gore is the individual who most of all has put these questions on a global agenda – ‘with his visit is to delight the environmental hysterists in SV,’ said Ketil Solvik-Olsen. And Per Sandberg has repeatedly announced that he will travel country and beach around, built for the countryside, town by city in Norway and win voters against the existence of climate debris. So yes, we've all done too little, but someone has actively worked so that we would do too little in that period, and first of all in that queue is the Progress Party, which ran after Bush. Every time Bush said "hopp," the Progress Party said, "We're jumping."
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e690	The President would point out that individual characteristics are not parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e693	It was as expected from Carl I. Hagen, when he now took the word and ridiculed all the parties in this room behind the climate agreement – that is what he did. But that's exactly what's the proof from Carl I. Hagen, the reason they're not in the climate deal, because they say no to the fact that there are man-made challenges we're facing. Then I have to ask: where is now the will of the Progress Party to pursue the most important policy forward in time, in the next major period, when the Progress Party is now actually standing firmly outside, after the inauguration of Carl I. Hagen? Then Carl I. Hagen says there were so many ‘big words’ on the pulpit. I assume that he is looking, among other things. to me, who spent a lot of my post on the international perspective of this case. So to make a concrete point, we've labeled 300 million. SEK for research, we have established Climate 21, we have doubled the allocations to Enova, almost NOK 3 billion, we have put money into a crisis package, into a series of environmental measures, we have established 5,000 new stations for electric cars, we have put in more stringent building regulations, we are now creating a law for offshore windmills, we have since the greatest investment in CO2 management and the Mongstad project. Are these just empty words? There are concrete measures by this government, among other things. No, this is nonsense, says Carl I. Hagen, there's nothing that works at all, this is just nonsense. It says emphatically where the Progress Party stands in the international and national climate debate. I must also make a little visit to the Chief Speaker of the Progress Party in this matter, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who had a nervousness about how bad things were with absolutely everything. But Ketil Solvik-Olsen said nothing about the big tax concessions the Progress Party is in favour of, and here they're going to go in with a huge subsidization all over the line. I would like to welcome that debate when we get it concrete in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e705	The President records that there is a heated debate here, and will ask the representatives to avoid using some words that might be perceived as unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e709	One should not be surprised that some people get excited when they are revealed as just talking. And what Carl I. Hagen said in his post, was not about taking up a scientific debate, it was about pointing out the other people's breach of promises. It should have been brought by the representative Nordtun and the Council of State. I would also ask the Council of State to find the quote where he claims Per Sandberg says that the Progress Party will use the election campaign to deny climate change. That's not the case. What Per Sandberg has said in the NRK is that the Progress Party will use the election campaign to profile a different climate policy. But that climate policy is, of course, the one that has been promoted in Stortinget. The fact that a journalist editorial has done something about his formation is something quite different from what Per Sandberg said. Find the live interview with Per Sandberg and show it to me, and I'll believe the council, but he's wrong. That is the claim of the Council of State on the Progress Party and nuclear power. The party party party does not say that the state should build nuclear power. It is therefore entirely pointless to claim that the Progress Party will decide where to build it in Norway. If the Council of State had been factual, and were interested in understanding what is actually being discussed, he would have realized that it is research and development, resource use, we are concerned about nuclear power, not building it in Norway. The Norwegian power market does not need nuclear power. Then I miss around this with international agreements. The Progress Party wants to establish an international agreement, but it must be better than the Kyoto agreement, where only 36 countries have restrictions on their emissions and can therefore only move their emissions to the 136 countries that have signed the agreement but do not have a single restriction. And I fear that the approach of the Council of State in Copenhagen – but now it is not he who represents us there – what he wants would result in a copy of Kyoto. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is more important to reach a broad agreement where the United States and China are involved than to get the most ambitious agreement where no one else can afford to follow what SV can afford. We need to ensure that we have harmonised framework conditions and do not solve national obligations to move. It is an advantage for Norwegian shipping and aviation if one manages to get a global framework for emissions from those sectors, but it is not in our industry's interest to get a curious thing done on this. So I'll finally deal with this with more people here trying to use Obama for their benefit. Look at the kind of policy Obama is launching. He wants safe nuclear power. It's against the Council of State. He wants to build a gas pipeline from Alaska down to the 48 consecutive states. It's a policy the Council of State is against. He wants increased extraction of his own oil and gas. And he's going to fight for quota trading as his main instrument, which the state council is now saying is a foundation of climate policy, but when SV stood alone, they were against quota trading. It's also worth noting that Obama, just like the Progress Party, is talking about energy and CO2, he's not talking about climate. He has three main instruments to bet on, and it's education, health and energy, and where his approach to energy and climate as part of the energy question, which is the way to approach this if you're going to solve it, is not the approach that we've seen from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e725	It could have been nice to reflect a little bit on where we had been today, we hadn't set ambitious goals in earlier times. From a historical perspective, it could be correct and important to carry out such an actual analysis. Yes, even though the goals were set in 1989, and although they might have been a little ambitious, I think there is little doubt that they have had their effect, and that the situation today would be much worse if we hadn't had a large collection of ambitious goals. Another parallel one can draw, for example, is the situation around emissions of pollutants other than necessarily CO2. there was a high level of local pollution. Significant improvements have been made. Strict requirements have been imposed on industry and emissions. Agreements have been made with the industry. Overall, therefore, the ambitious targets have continued Norway. We've got an industry that's already leading technology, at least in many areas, in relation to the image we see in the world today. And without these ambitious goals, Norway would certainly not have been where we are. When Carl I. Hagen somehow tries to present the Progress Party as a witness to the truth that one has set ambitious goals, one could have asked questions about where one would have been today if we had followed what has been the points and decisions of the Progress Party relating to the environment, climate, etc. We had at least not had a leading industry, and we had not been leading in dealing with local pollution and emissions. Yes, the situation had been much worse. Setting ambitious goals, working to fulfill them, is bold, because one can be taken in retrospect, but these ambitious goals have brought us on, and that's what's important. That reflection completely omits Hagen in its perspective and its rolling over goals that are set, and of which they themselves have not been part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e739	I am aware that former President Bush is a relatively negative guy with SV's eyes, but former President Bush is not responsible for the fact that all other parties in the Norwegian Storing have not implemented the necessary Norwegian measures to reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions, in accordance with the not'very ambitious', it is too mild, but the totally unrealistic dream goals set by the other parties in 1989. It cannot be said to be the responsibility of former President Bush. The Norwegian pottery and all the other parties have been free to implement the national Norwegian measures that would be necessary to achieve the objectives that I mentioned and that have been set out by the Swedish Research Department of Storting, based on Innst. S. No 273 for 1988-1989 and the debate in 1989. So it's absolutely right that I was a little over-optimistic in 1997. I said that in 10-15 years, more people would also discover the hysterical nature of this. But I still have a few years to go on, since I said 15 years. And at least there are over 20,000 scientists with a technical-natural background – not economically, as Stern is, not at all natural science – who have also come up with some things. After all, there are not so many technical-natural backgrounds that are included in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, not the Intergovernmental Panel, but the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. But I have something to do with it, and it's more than 20,000 scientists who have signed up to both the UN and others with the same points of view, that there are enormous exaggerations in this respect with man-made CO2. But there will be the future. I've allowed myself to say later that what I'm going to miss when I get out of the Storting is that I can't participate in that debate, if any, where the majority has to show that there were great exaggerations here, and not what you believed in the 1990s and the 2000s. Electric cars have been a lot ahead of us. Yeah, think if we all started driving an electric car. Where do we get the power from? Well, I guess we have to import coal power. And since there were power supply problems in the West, the sitting government would have a very highly polluting mobile power plant to secure electricity. It is not that electric car is automatically clean energy. It depends on where that energy is produced, and it might come from coal power.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e754	This debate on the climate policy presentation should have been a debate on how we can set bolder goals, how we can intensify the use of instruments in order to achieve the emission targets we have set ourselves. The government's strategy has been that when one is confronted with emissions rising in Norway, despite the government saying they're going to go down, one has used the political escape route to attack the Right and the Advance Party. It is clearly much easier for the Government to attack such a constellation than to defend its own climate policy and its lack of ambition. Now it is the case that the Right has said that they want the Advance Party and the Right in government if such a constellation should have a majority. That I don't believe or hope it will. That would be a bad solution for climate policy. Erna Solberg said after the Right National Meeting that the most natural constellation she thought was the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The left is disappointed with the direction that the Right National Assembly took in environmental issues, but we have good experience of cooperation between the Right Christian People's Party and the Left. The majority know that these parties recently together put forward a much more ambitious approach to climate policy than the government put forward to the Storting. So it's possible to imagine alternatives that are more ambitious in climate policy than today's government is. What is at least certain is that these questions are at the top of the Left's agenda. What Carl I. Hagen has pointed out is that there is no agreement between what the parties say is the goal, and what they put at the top of the political agenda. Since the 1970s, the left has put environmental and climate issues at the top of the political agenda. The first proposals, from Hans Hammond Rossbach in the 1970s, were ridiculed. We have had a number of proposals that have been voted down and that would contribute to a different development than the one we have seen. I also record in the debate that the Government does not want to start negotiations on a new climate settlement, an intensified climate settlement, until 2010, because one should wait for a recommendation from the SFT on what to do. There is good evidence of possible and effective measures that could have saved one year from the government’s plans. This may be an example of an urgent need for international work, but too much time at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e765	Let me start by saying to Gunnar Kvassheim that the SV and Left have perhaps historically been the two parties that have been most in agreement with climate policy and environmental policy, but it has turned out to be full now that the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have managed to implement jointly, is tremendous in relation to what left hand drive when they were in alliance with Right. There are two different worlds, although we often agree on individual matters. Let me get to Carl I. Hagen that at one point I agree. I also want to miss Carl I. Hagen in Stortinget – very rarely miss the points of view, but very often miss the freshness, cowardice, and directness of the debate that lives up to the Stortinget, which makes it a forum that most people listen to and that brings us out of often some bureaucratic debates. So if this is the last chance to thank for it directly, I'd like to do it. So take Carl I. Hagen as the usual mistake in most of what he says. In the case of electric cars, for example, the Americans have calculated that they can leave 70 million electric cars at night just because the power consumption is much lower at night than in the daytime. And most people want to leave their electric car at night. So they don't have to build up any power to charge 70 million electric cars. Cars are a potential way to deal with just the fluctuations in the wiring on which Carl I. Hagen is concerned about, because electric cars can load into the grid, they can take the power out when there's a lot of power on the grid, and they can charge power into the grid when it's small, in what Americans call a smart network. So these problems we should be looking forward to -- we'll be able to solve them -- instead, as usual, blackmailing and seeing all the difficulties. But then to the most important core of the matter. Carl I. Hagen made a contribution to the Storting in December last year where he sowed doubts as to whether there are man-made climate change, yes, more than that: the whole thing is that there are no man-made climate change, it's just natural climate change. This is at the heart of it, because if there are no man-made climate change, it is an absolutely unimaginable contempt for the Norwegian people to take action against it. It is a limitless disregard for people most, for people in Norway, to think that they are all wrong – all those who observe in their daily lives, different aspects of climate change. We get a lot of enquiries from them. So they're all wrong! The Progress Party knows it: it's just natural climate change. Everyone – not just in Norway but all over the world – is wrong. But more than that, what in the world are we going to do with sea moths if they're not man-made climate change? Every doctor has to start with a diagnosis of the patient before he prints out the medicine. And the feeling of contempt for the population: telling the Norwegian population that there is a need for great sacrifices, we need to develop a lot of technologies – but we don't know if the problem exists! It's only if the problem is big it makes sense to spend billions of dollars on carbon cleaning or on windmills. Therefore, the very core is to start with a diagnosis of the patient. The patient is very ill, and the Advance Party takes a false look at the common man and woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e778	I think the seriousness of the matter might suggest that the State Council of Solheim should dampen the rhetoric a little. He should probably not forget that it was actually the Progress Party that was the only political party here in Norway that embraced the Ministry of the Environment's climate report when it came, but perhaps have it in mind in the further debate – a debate that I think bears the mark that we are now at a level where attack is the best defence. It is not certain that this debate will benefit the most. I had probably also, like the representative Kvassheim, believed that the statement – which I think in many ways was good and rich – had been more a review of what kind of result we have achieved so far in this period, which is now approaching the end, and which is definitely not as the Council of State describes in its dealings with facts about climate policy. He defines it as that the climate policy of the SV – and the Left, which he takes with him – belongs to a completely different world than the world that, among other things. The right is in. We're still in the real world. And in the real world, climate change emissions have risen nationally in this period. They didn't do that in the last period. What happened when SV's environmental policy spokespersons asked the Right for help to move climate policy in the right direction? If you're concerned with national results, you have to find another rhetoric, and then I think you'll stand by maybe working more concretely with measures. Unfortunately, the representative of Solvik-Olsen is quite right in saying that climate policy and the production of new renewable energy must go hand in hand. Here, State Council Solheim should spend a lot more time delivering results, as it is now demonstrable that Norway is nearing a full stop in this area. I hope this is not going to be a debate that is now turning to the Home of the Progress Party, because that is what the Progress Party wants. But it's not quite obvious that that's what the challenges will serve for the future. In any case, there is time for action and time for achievement. At the end of the day, I want to say that in the future, we need to focus on the time after Kyoto, what kind of content we are going to have in a climate agreement. I would also like to warn against the old-fashioned checkbook diplomacy that is now being thrown into the rainforest. At least you have to keep the whole Storting with you before you move on, in order to have robust arrangements through the UN and the World Bank that can... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e791	It is often not very productive to quote from debates in 1989, but the Progress Party chose to do so. I became involved in politics right back then, and then it was climate, distribution and environment that was kind of the big issues that aroused a young heart. There is one quote that is left from the climate debate in 1989, and it was from Øystein Hedstrom. I don't know if I remember correctly, but I think he said he wasn't worried about the greenhouse effect, because there weren't so many greenhouses in Eastfold. I think we can beat each other in the head with a lot of different quotations – and good intentions – from that debate, and I don't know who has the most to be ashamed of. I am not ashamed that the Central Party has had high ambitious goals and has been part of the green parties in Norway that have had clear and clear goals over time in energy and environmental policy. Now, at noon, something has happened related to the climate. Enova has published a list —the 400 million allocated to an additional measure in the context of the action package. It has been promised that 650 different public buildings around Norway will have new windows installed, after-insulated, few doors – a lot of concrete climate action will be taken. That's what I think is so good about this government. It does not only have ambitious objectives, but it takes concrete, practical action. Some of the problem in the climate and environmental debate has been that you have had a lot of big words, worried mines and a little too little practical solutions. At present, practical solutions are being launched in over 600 buildings in Norway thanks to the package of measures presented by the Government in winter. What I think is one of the most positive things about the package of measures presented is that in a financial crisis one could not just build on the problems of traditional economic growth. It was also necessary to take the environment and climate challenges seriously, including: by granting 400 million. kr more for an additional measure to beimplemented in these days, right now. That's very good. One can become quite optimistic on behalf of the climate when one sees what people are willing to do, just one adds to it. In the case of source sorting in my own county, people sort seven-eight products in every possible box and are very happy to do so. That's what politics is all about. It's about thinking globally, but acting locally. If we set up a practical environmental policy, I'm sure we'll get it done. That's what the government is doing. That's why I agree that we don't increase the wreckage now, because the technology will be there in a few years. If we then make a charging system, create incentive schemes when technology is there, people are going to buy the environmentally friendly cars, because people will act environmentally friendly if they can. People take the climate problems seriously. We're going to make it easier, and we're going to do it, among other things. At the moment, giving a lot of money to an increase in public buildings around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e802	I am very happy that I got the post to the Vice President of the Center Party, who is concerned that an increase in the wreckage will lead to so many new cars on Norwegian roads. On the contrary, State Council Solheim points out in its reply to the Committee that there are so few cars over 20 years old that that proposal has no purpose – so there is clearly a disagreement. Solheim believes that there are few cars, and Vedum believes that this will apply to many cars. It's probably symptomatic of the government's somewhat daunting ambitions in some of these questions. State Council Solheim ridicules the Progress Party that we sometimes dare to question it to the extent that the blind approach I feel some of the government's speakers have in this matter. You might wonder how many years the temperature in the world is going to go down before Solheim opens up a debate about science. I am glad that the Progress Party was not as bad as it was with those who first claimed that the earth was round – at least I have not yet experienced any threats of violence. There are many reasons for both changing the consumption pattern and reducing the use of fossil energies. A beautiful spring day, in any case, is that part of the fossil energy sources are gone. Many of us are going to experience that. As of today, we are not prepared for it, and therefore it is important that Norway, as a nation, prepares for a situation where fossil fuels can no longer be what we generate our revenues from, or what we run our industry and our cars with. As far as the oil sand project in Canada is concerned, hopefully it will stop once. At least I hope you can find other ways of producing energy that are cheaper and better. Then we have a situation in that part of the country called Middle Norway. I want to take it up, because there is no lack of vision. There's a lot of talk. Erik Solheim and the rest of the Government seem to want primarily to convince the Progress Party that they have a good climate policy. Perhaps you should have spent more energy telling those who are going to produce renewable energy in Norway that you have a good climate policy. Those who produce renewable energy in Norway are not convinced that the government’s climate policy is actually working.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e813	I'm taking the floor because I'm a little surprised that Carl I. Hagen is so upset that you haven't managed to achieve the ambitious goals you set in the 1980s, to reduce CO2 emissions. When he believes that it was based on hysteria, he should be glad that sufficient action has not been successfully implemented — because some measures have been taken — that there has been no use of resources to implement adequate measures against this ‘hysteria’. If it is that Carl I. Hagen still believes – as he has now confirmed – that the increase in warming is man-made, why does the Progress Party have as a policy that they will also cut emissions? Why, then, do you want to spend taxpayers' money on subsidising measures such as sea windmills or other good measures to bring in new, renewable industries? So here I wonder if it's Carl I. Hagen's analysis that applies in the Progress Party, or whether Carl I. Hagen is out of date with his own party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e823	This debate is becoming quite interesting, also for those of us who were not here in 1989. In a way, it is good to get Carl I. Hagen's confirmation that he still believes that those who are concerned about the climate problem, those who take the UN Climate Panel seriously, are hysterics. And not enough: he goes a long way in insinuating that the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are not scientifically based. The representative Hagen mentioned economist Stern. It may be good to know that he is not a member of the climate panel – he has never been, and he has never claimed that he has been – but he has made his own report where he has calculated how much the different scenarios in terms of temperature increase will cost. And not so very surprising, he found that it would be much more expensive to wait to pay for the changes than to prevent them from happening. So everyone who has spent some time getting involved in the climate debate knows that there are different opinions. Researchers have different approaches, some disagree with the United Nations Climate Panel – of course, this is science. There were also a lot of researchers at one time who could tell us that smoking was not dangerous – and without coming up with too many insinuations it might be worth reflecting a little about who essentially financed the researchers. So I'm not saying that there are no independent researchers who doubt the climate panel's conclusions, but when Hagen is quite inconceivably accusing the climate panel of being unscientific, he goes far too far. I suggest that the representative Hagen walk – that is climate friendly – the few kilometers up to the Meteorological Institute and talk to, for example. our scientists on ice who work there and who have contributed to the United Nations Climate Panel. Then he can then make an opinion about what they're doing there, is science or not. In science, there will always be room for doubt – that's what science is, that's the essence of science. That is why it is very powerful when the world's top researchers are as united as they are on the conclusions of the last report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e838	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e842	It was then violent to react to the posts of my little three-minute post. I just pointed out what the other parties that have had a majority since 1989 had of objectives in 1989, and why the parties that have had this majority have not implemented the policies they stand for. But I'm not upset. I am very pleased that the ambitious goals are not near being achieved, for they would have been really strong, negative measures for ordinary people in this country. So I'm happy about it, but I'm not upset, as Svein Roald Hansen thought. But – and I have to make it clear – I am not speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of Advancement, that is what Ketil Solvik-Olsen is doing. I speak on behalf of myself as an abducted politician. However, I do respect large-scale, international agreements, and once the majority have ratified the Kyoto agreement, I and the Progress Party also feel an obligation to implement the majority to which Norway has committed itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e847	I think this is an important debate. The fact that climate is one of the most important challenges for the country is clearly evident when we are dealing with the perspective message and the long-term challenges for the country later on. I think it's very eel-yielding and liberating – quivering great, almost – to hear Carl I. Hagen say and think exactly what he's doing, because it's been the line of the Progress Party ever since. For Carl I. Hagen says: I am very pleased that we have not reached the targets, because it would have been an accident for Norway – it would have been very costly and very negative. It is quite right that both Marianne Marthinsen and several others are concerned that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is not 100 pst. safe – they are between 90 and 95 pst. ensuring that climate change is man-made. And when you talk about being 90-95 pst. Sure of something, then I'll make a comparison: there's ice on the Oslo soil, and you're standing on one side and considering whether to go over to the Nesodden. If you're 90-95 pst. sure that the ice is holding, it is not certain that you would have sent your kids over that ice, because it could have happened – it is actually 5 pst. chance – that the ice is broken. And that doubt is essential to focus on, for 90-95 pst. is so much that if you don't take that into account, you're pretty shortsighted. I heard Tord Lien say that the government parties led a blind climate debate. Well, the Progress Party has for a number of years made this its mantra: First, the Advance Party said it, then everyone else comes after it. Let's say that in this case, the Progress Party is not so high. You're actually not out saying, we've been saying this all along, and now all of the things show that we were right. On the contrary, there is more and more evidence that the Progress Party has always been wrong. The choice for the harvest is between the Right Party and the Advance Party on one side and the Government Parties on the other. We're sure that if we're going to do something about the biggest challenges, we have to do something about the largest emissions from Norwegian, i.e. from transport, car transport. We know that the Progress Party is against tolls to sponsor public transport – a success story for Oslo, where there are fewer toll passages and many more people who choose public transport. So it is the Progress Party against it. This would be an important step towards solving the problem of climate change emissions from Norway. We know that the Progress Party is an unconditional supporter of all oil extraction. On the SV side, we have been very clear that we say no to drilling in Lofoten and the West Sea, both for the sake of fishing resources there and for the sake of the climate. The progress is clear that resources and climate are being given the bluff. Here you just want to have a tune and run in the economy. It's an accident for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e860	I got the impression that Carl I. Hagen was both a little happy and flattered and a little surprised that his posts were getting great – what to say – enthusiasm in this room. This is because there is no more blatant example of how the Progress Party has been wrong all along. In some other cases, the Progress Party has been a bit right and was a little wrong, but here you have been wrong – you have only been wrong. The 1989 debate was mentioned. I was relatively central to Carl I. Perhaps Hagen's leading opponents in the climate debate that time. Then the Progress Party said that this with climate was something that SV had found on to win votes in the election campaign. It would pass. It wasn't just in 1997 that Carl I. Hagen said this would go over. As early as 1989, he said that climate would change. There was something SV had come up with as a smart trick to win votes in the election campaign. Now there is not one head of state in the world of any format that does not agree with SV's diagnosis in this area. One might argue about what are the right measures, but everyone agrees with what SV said in 1989, that this is a huge problem for humanity. No one can rule out Siv Jensen becoming prime minister. That's what's serious about the situation. A prime minister from a party that has been wrong every day and every hour for 20 years in the greatest contemporary question, will travel to Copenhagen and perhaps meet Barack Obama, President Hu, Merkel, Sarkozy, Gordon Brown, Manmohan Singh – I don't know. All prime ministers from all over the world, whether they're from the right, from the centre or from the left, will all come there with one theme: what do you do with this huge problem for humanity? And then Norway was going to send a prime minister who said, hey, I'm not sure if we have a problem. My party has not managed to agree if we have a problem. Some people in my party, like Solvik-Olsen, probably think we have a problem, but others, like Sandberg and Carl I. Hagen, think we don't have a problem, so we haven't been able to jump the cards and even figure out before Copenhagen if we have a problem. It would be very awkward for Norway. I think quite a few of us would need political asylum, for example. in the United States, in such a situation. That's what we're trying to avoid. That is why we need to get this clearly up and down in the election campaign, so that the voters can choose whether they want Jens Stoltenberg or Siv Jensen to represent Norway in Copenhagen. Let me finally say, yes, I'm going to miss Carl I. Hagen. He's been a favorite opponent. I'm saying that now, because I don't know if we're going to participate in any joint debate before the end of the Great Britain. He's been a favorite opponent for many years. We've had a lot of fresh impacts. I think that kind of clash is helping to make the debate more interesting. If we don't continue the argument here, I would like to accept an invitation to Spain to continue the argument there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e871	At the risk of being accused of being one of them in the Progress Party who is working with Carl I. Hagen, as the Council of State said, I would like to say a little bit about the IPCC, because there has been a lot of talk about them clearly, with 95 pst. probability, is right. Ten years ago they said there's going to be significant temperature changes presumptuously in the rising direction. I think we can agree that if you look at weather statistics around the world, they were wrong. Then it is probably also that there is at least one head of state who has not concluded as strongly as Erik Solheim, the president of the Czech Republic. But the members of the position just read what they want to read from what comes both from the IPCC and from the IEA. Both conclude that the major problem is coal, while nuclear power is part of the solution. Oil and gas are another part of the solution. It is almost a little sweet when Heikki Holmås with fire and bram proclaims that SV is the guarantor that there will not be oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Vesterålen. It has not been many years since, if it has been years since, SV with the same size of findings stated that at least there is no oil drilling near the coast of Finnmark – I assume that SV will vote against what the Government has now submitted on the expansion of the Goliath field. So how credible SV is in terms of oil and gas issues, I don't know. But I know that IEA and IPCC place great emphasis on the need to phase out coal in Europe. An important way to do this is to export more gas from Norway. So for hysteria. In the case of species diversity, I have also read a little. It also had the representative Marthinsen. She said 30 pst. the species would be eradicated by the temperature change she outlined. Where does that information come from? Where's that quote from? The quote from the IPCC that I've read is that 30 pst. the species will have a more challenging situation than today. So in that hierarchy, which may not be so relevant in the climate debate, there are six categories – one of them is not threatened, and for the other there is a need for monitoring. So it's not like 30 pst. the species will be eradicated. It's the way we have to take better care of these species. Then to Mid-Norway. In central Norway, a wide range of renewable energy projects have been fully potable since 2005. The only thing the government has done in Central Norway to correct the energy situation is to build three temporary gas power plants. Where is the credibility of the Government in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e891	Gunnar Kvassheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e894	The Minister for the Environment has used the day to say no to the Left's invitation to engage in climate negotiations earlier than 2010. He has also failed to open up new measures to reduce emissions. On the contrary, the government to which he belongs has recently submitted proposals to the Stortinget which will increase emissions, among others. through Goliath expansion. It hears that SV is the only party in this room that had a program formulation that they were against all the oil activity in the northern regions. To overshadow this, he has chosen to attack the Progress Party, which is on the sideline of Norwegian climate policy. It has not brought climate action in Norway one millimetre ahead. One has thus abused the opportunity to have more offensive environmental policies and climate policies along with good co-players in Stortinget. It has meant that this debate, instead of bringing this work forward, has sidetracked it, and it is emotive that it was clearly the strategy of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e904	I have no strong desire to extend the debate. But I have been listening to the whole debate today, and I must say I am surprised at the form of debate chosen by the Minister for the Environment. I have great respect for the Council's environmental exposure, which I have also followed for many years, but the attempt to get an enemy who has no reality over it, I find very wonderful. In this way, I agree with Gunnar Kvassheim that the whole environmental debate is being sidetracked. The right has made it very clear that we perceive the climate agreement as a minimum, not as a maximum. Any government in Norway has to deal with a large majority. That means that if the picture that the council tried to draw had any reality, the Progress Party had to have a purely majority in this house. The right has always made it clear that we see the climate agreement as a minimum solution. We helped push the red-green government to pursue a more offensive environmental policy, and we are at any time ready to sit down and discuss solutions that could mean that Norway is pursuing a more offensive environmental policy. So I want to ask myself the way in which the Council of State is trying to stamp Right, in environmental policy. We are engaged in offensive environmental policies, and we are at any time ready to discuss concrete solutions, not just rhetorical exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e911	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e914	Those who wish to see the overall climate policy of the Advance Party must read Document No. 8:97 for 2006-2007. The points of view of the Party shall be set out, as the party stands behind it in its entirety. The Progress Party takes climate policy seriously, but we distance ourselves from the political correctness imposed in the debate, among other things. by the Council of State. Our expressed scepticism for some of the blatant doomsday prophecies of environmental protection does not mean that we deny the issue. We see that CO2 is a greenhouse gas, but it must be allowed to point out the disagreement about the size of the temperature effects that we get by increasing the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. There is considerable debate here. It is not that we stress that CO2 does not have a climate effect, but it is the temperature effects we believe one has to work more with. That's what we've been talking about in the past. At the same time, we have a leading precautionary attitude, because the warnings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are so strict and because the consequences can be so extensive. That is why, in the Progress Party, we had the long list of actions that we believe should be put in place, both now and research in the future. One must be able to see the combination of both debate on science and debate on action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e932	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e948	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e957	There is a cross-political consensus on investing in the quality and safety of our health services. Patients must feel safe and secure to be treated in Norwegian hospitals. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. It refers complaints to Norwegian patient damages, and, even more seriously, there are great darknesses. A number of unfortunate events are never reported. Most people who have been in hospitals can tell about experiences that they should not have had, for example. patients who get infection in the wound after surgery, X-rays that get confused, medication errors, etc. Probably unfortunate events hit as many as 10 pst. by patients in Norwegian hospitals. It's probably not going to be less in the future. New medical advances help to improve treatment and treat more and more. At the same time, this requires that health services are professionally updated and that routines and guidelines are developed, so that best treatment is provided to all. Until 2005, women with ovaries had twice the risk of death if, for example, they had: was operated on at the worst local hospital and not at the Radium hospital. The proposal from the Right is therefore an important one, and I am pleased that the Right has put this on the agenda. An overall committee sees the need to strengthen work on quality and safety within and outside hospitals. The majority of the Committee, consisting of members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, supports the proposal that the Government develop a new, comprehensive quality strategy for hospitals. The minority suggests that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol, on the grounds that quality and safety work is already under way by the Government and that continuous work is needed on the measures taken. I will examine some of the specific proposals in the case. Proposals are made for the establishment of a quality certification system for all Norwegian hospitals and health establishments. These are systems implemented in some hospitals in Norway. Several countries have introduced it in their health services. According to a report from the National Health Knowledge Centre, we lack a knowledge base to assess the effectiveness of ISO certification and accreditation. It is also proposed to develop and publish several quality indicators, including mortality indicators and the patient’s function before, during and after treatment. It is proposed to draw up and publish reports comparing quality between hospitals, health businesses and regions, that quality information should form the basis for the division of tasks between hospitals in order to ensure that patients receive the best possible treatment and, finally, that more professional guidance is developed to ensure the best possible quality treatment. In its letter to the Committee on the subject, the Council of State stresses that the development of health records and national quality records is essential for the development of quality indicators. From my point of view, I would like to clarify that the development and use of quality records in order to develop quality indicators must take place without prejudice to privacy. The goal does not conjure up the means, no matter how noble the goal is. With this, I recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e983	Better quality in hospitals and health services in general is very important given the daily treatment provided in the various hospitals and institutions throughout our country. The proposal made by the representatives is important in view of how to find different measures to further improve the quality of the various areas. Today, considerable efforts are being made to improve the quality of the country’s hospital, including in the five areas of intervention mentioned by the proposers in their proposal, and not least by the case-rapporteur mentioned here. Health undertakings are currently carrying out a lot of good work in putting new quality assurance and certification systems in place. It is important that a person acquires both knowledge and experience of what is currently being tested before any national certification system is established. It is important that a quality strategy for the whole healthcare system is based on a non-exhaustive approach. Health records are necessary as a basis for indicators and guidelines and functional distribution. The Government has already decided in the spring of 2008 to set up a pre-project for a national health registry project. The aim of the project is to facilitate better exploitation and safer handling of data for the purposes of the various registers. Quality improvement of healthcare and patient treatment, research, health monitoring, prevention, administration and management of healthcare are some of these areas to be highlighted. I believe that the letter from the Minister of Health and Health provides a very good and complementary answer to the questions raised. In addition, the notified wholesale communication on interactions in healthcare will contribute to improving the quality of specialist healthcare and primary health services. Today, we have good experiences, including: with the Register of Cancer. The quality of that register is very good and contributes to good treatment through experience data related to disease progression and treatment. The register is person-identifiable, without consent. The data quality is good and includes all of them. In order to further improve the quality of health services, it is important that we establish even more registers of the same quality, which will significantly improve treatment in different areas and disease groups. It is important that other disease groups receive the same follow-up, for this register has shown that the research carried out and the treatment carried out have become better and more accurate through such a register. At the same time, it is important that the register be of good quality, given that it is person-identifiable, so that the person who does not have anything to do in the register does not have access to it. I am pleased that the Government and the Council of State have taken the initiative to establish new registers, which will provide even better health care quality, and which can benefit all patients. I therefore refer to the proposal of the minority in the Committee that document No. 8:29 on better hospital quality is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1000	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1003	The representatives of the Right address very important issues in their proposal. I believe that all the political parties in this room want a health service and a hospital service of the highest quality possible. It's important. What you might disagree about is what means you're going to use to achieve the goal that we've all set ourselves. The Progress Party agrees with what is contained in the document from the representatives. It also has its background in the fact that the Progress Party in Document No. 8:103 for 2006-2007 proposed public quality indicators for Norwegian hospitals. The background to that proposal was that if a patient, among other things, should be able to benefit from free hospital choice, it is very important for a boat to know what a person chooses from, and what a person chooses to do. Information is important. After this proposal was discussed, some quality indicators have actually been put in place, but unfortunately they have not gone far enough. More quality indicators are needed, and I hope that the Council of State will continue the work of the Knowledge Centre on precisely developing indicators to maximise the knowledge of the individual in healthcare. It's not going to get away from the fact that it's just within the hospital and the health care we're most vulnerable. That's also where we are incredibly dependent on the quality of the service provided. It goes on medicine management, it goes on clean-up, in something as simple as washing your hands properly, it goes on patient safety in hospitals – there are a number of different things that are very important. I think the posts of the representative Jorodd Asphjell were very good. The only thing that was not as good was the conclusion – yes, we agree with what the proposal says, yes, we believe this is important, but no, we will not vote for it; we will attach that protocol. It's a little sad, because it could have a unanimous growth behind it with quality systems, what it has to do with being able to follow up these things to do, would be very important and would also give the Council of State all the backing that the Council of State could actually ask for. I hope, however, that this work goes on, because that is absolutely necessary. We're going to have to get better at quality. It actually shows the figures from Norwegian patients' compensation, which the rapporteur was referring to. Reports of near-incidents and adverse events in hospitals are also still available. This is an organization that is under constant pressure. It's about getting patients through a patient procedure quickly, because it's expensive to have the patient in a hospital. It is also important to have good health records in place, but I probably do not agree with the representative Jorodd Asphjell that it is important to put in place the maximum number of registers that are not consent-based. Privacy is important and privacy has been put under pressure in more and more areas. It's very important that we think about health too. I think that if we asked the population what information you're most afraid of getting to know others, most people would say that my health information is for me the most important thing. And that's what we're going to take over. So, of course, the Cancer Register has been an unconditional success. That's why it might be important to keep working on that particular piece, because you've just asked for sub-registration to be created, so that you can get even more knowledge about the individual types of cancer. I hope that the Council of State will intervene, so that we can get it in place. There is also a need for some resources and a permanent organisation of this register. The Party also wishes to introduce a system of quality certification for all Norwegian hospitals and health establishments. It is important that we keep this measure in focus. It's important to think about quality assurance, because this is so infinitely important for our citizens. It's important that you have that security when you get to the hospital, that you get the help you need, that you know what's going to happen around you, that you know that the hand hygiene is taken care of, and that you know that you're being followed throughout the patient's course. On this basis, I would like to refer to proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right, which is included in the vote, and looks forward to the debate further and hopes that we can all agree on one thing, and that is that no matter what we do, the quality should be further raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1022	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1025	An overall committee writes in its opinion that there is a clear need to strengthen work on quality and safety. It should have also, in my opinion, led to the full agreement and dissolution of all parts of the proposal for a representative that we have promoted. I am pleased that there is broad support from a majority in the Committee to all parts, minus one, which is contained in the recently referred proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, which only has the Progress Party and the Right as proposers, and which goes directly to the introduction of an accreditation and certification system. When there is full agreement that there is a clear need to strengthen the work on quality and safety, and the Health Authority repeatedly in its reports notes that there is a lack of follow-up in correcting the errors pointed out by the Health Authority, it is difficult for me to understand that it is so cool and reserved for proposals that are just about to create systems, because we agree that there is a lot of good work, undoubtedly, in Norwegian hospitals to improve quality, but what is missing is systems that ensure that this is prioritised at the top. We also agree, as the other parties in the committee state in the vote, that when it comes to the issue, this is a management responsibility – of course – and it is a management responsibility at all levels of the specialist health service. But the problem is that leaders come and go — in health as in all other businesses. If you are not to make this personal dependent, you need to have security systems that, regardless of who is currently in charge of one level or another, ensure that quality work is given top priority. The reason why, in our proposal, we place considerable emphasis on just this with certification, is that we believe that experience from other social sectors and the experience of many types of private activities shows that such systems based on standardised quality requirements, which measure the activity permanently against these defined quality standards, are the safest tool over time to ensure that the system does not desalinate with regard to the vigilance of precise safety and quality in the treatment of patients. Let me also add that an important aspect of this is that hospitals are also responsible for the training of all future health professionals. These are the rotational arrangements and the practical arrangements for medical students and for nursing students. We know that today the quality follow-up is not good enough there either. It should be quite obvious that that part of the hospital's activities are really quality assurance. Finally, let me also express my wonder at the Council's letter of reply to the committee. That wonder goes on two things. Firstly, it is said that the Council of State sees no reason to draw up a coherent national strategy. This «preliminary» I am stunning over – what in the world does that mean? How long does the Council of State think you can wait to start that work? The second is the excessive emphasis placed on health records in the letters of the Council of State. Bombastic claims are made that there is an absolute premise of the existence of successful health records — mention is also made of drug treatment and psychiatry — which should be person-identifiable and should not be consent-based at all costs. That is, the patient shouldn't have a word in the team. It is possible to do quality assurance work if you have it. I hope, almost said, that the Council of State has not read through the letter that someone has written before he put his name under.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1042	Of course, the quality of hospital services is very important. That is why it is important that a continuous focus is on quality, which is something that this representative proposal supports. I know that hospitals are busy with quality, but I believe that the effort and the work are too little systematic. As some people know, I have some experience in it. Better systems need to be created, but not least better cultures need to be created. I think the systems are important, but also the culture of those added is incredibly important. We have seen that the Medical Association has just asked for a system to describe the quality of the hospitals. The unit points out that quality data is not returned to the organisation, so that they can learn from success, possibly from unwanted events. A joint committee has pointed out that hospitals need to become learning organisations and that it is important that hospitals learn from each other. But as I and Left see it, it is very important that the level of leadership takes on quality, and that – as I said – there must be a strong culture of all personnel at all levels that have seen the quality of the high seat. The hospital is perhaps one of the most complex and lacking organisations, all of which – and the interaction between all – are important. It is also critical of good quality. I have to say that I am disappointed that the Council of State is so strongly connecting the quality of hospitals to the believer in a person-identifiable health register, as he does in this letter, as others have mentioned. This message has been attached to the setting. The importance of privacy is not mentioned in one word. Instead, the Swedish and Danish state councils, which have patient registers that are not based on consent, pay tribute to Sweden and Denmark. The left is both the surprise and the drawer of the Council of State's appetite for new identity-identifiable health records. But as we heard from the representative Jorod Asphjell – at least there is a register fan club in the Labour Party. I must say I am also very concerned about that. That is why, at the end of the day, I would like to ask the Council of State: Is the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy not important to the Council of Health Ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1053	For me, it is important to start by saying that we have two national quality strategies to help patients and users get services of good quality, regardless of the level at which they seek help for their health problems. The first is the national strategy for quality improvement in social and health services for 2005–2015, which came in 2005. National health plan also has its own strategy for quality, patient safety and priority. Good quality is very much about doing the right actions at the right level at the right time. Today there is too much pressure on the specialist health service. In order to meet the needs of the future for health care, we need to focus much more on community health services and ensure that more are offered outside hospitals. I therefore still believe that there is no need for a new quality strategy for hospitals. It is important to strengthen work on quality and safety both inside and outside hospitals, based on the measures already in place. The Committee draws up four elements which it considers must be part of a quality strategy. I would like to comment on the status of these. First a few words about quality indicators. Sweden and Denmark have, as many have said, long had identity-identifiable patient records and quality records. It means, in my opinion, that our two neighbouring countries have a knowledge base for research and quality development that Norway does not have. We only have two person-identifiable records. It's the Norwegian Patient Register and the Cancer Register. The fact that we have the Cancer Register has, to those degrees, strengthened the quality of cancer work in Norway. I believe that, yes, I take the privacy challenges very seriously, and so far – as far as I know – there is not one example of privacy being affected by the fact that we have the Cancer Register. There is no contradiction between good data protection and good quality records, such as the Kreftregister. We are also working on various changes to the Health Care Act – with which we will get to Stortinget, of course – with the aim that health information can be used for quality assurance and health care management, and not just for research, as today. For quality indicators, such as mortality, sufficient information on patients must be available to e.g.: to be able to adjust for the patient composition. Quality assurance is one of the purposes of the Norwegian patient register, but we do not believe that it is per. Today, there is a sufficient basis for providing the necessary data to obtain a proper picture of the quality of the treatment. That's why we have to keep working on it. During the summer of 2009, the Health Directorate will present all the national quality indicators on its own website, which can be compared with hospitals and healthcare companies, and show developments over time. The new website will probably be angled primarily against professionals, but it will be open to everyone. We aim to ensure that the more patient-oriented quality indicators continue to be published through the free choice of hospitals website. We have given regional health businesses an explicit mandate to make good use of good quality in the allocation of tasks. We are working intensively to develop several professional guidelines. In 2008, four national guidelines and more than 20 national guides were published. Now we are working on over 40 new guidelines and guides in a wide range of areas. I agree with the Committee and the proposers that this is an important contribution. So I think it's good and nice to experience that we agree that we have a job to do in terms of quality. Norwegian hospitals are good, but can get better. We are in the middle of implementing important strategies. We think we need some evidence to do that job well enough, but there shouldn't be any rest cushions, and that's why we're going to work intensively on it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1072	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1076	I really want to ask the Council of State two questions. Question 1 addresses the joyous information provided by the Council of State that a website related to the quality of hospitals and quality indicators will be available from the summer. It is then important that the content of the indicators is also such that people actually understand what it says, as this is primarily meant for professionals. There must be simple and straightforward solutions, and – not least – a direct link to the site related to free hospital choice. I hope the Council of State can confirm that there will be a direct link, so that these things hang together. Question 2 concerns the register. I, the undersigned, believe the Register of Cancer is a very good register. It has resulted in a lot of positive results, and it has been handled in a good way, even though some exceptions have been made there as well. My question to the Council of State is: The Council of State has announced that there will be a matter of a heart and profession register for the Stortinget in ours. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1085	On the first question, getting a link between the new website in the Health Directorate and the free choice of hospitals website, I think it's unproblematic. At least I take it with me as a wish from the representative Nesvik, and I think it sounds like a good idea personally. To the second question, when there is a matter of a heart and registry: Although the reputation is certain that we in the Government are fully responsive to the workload that the Stortingen is now facing, that is not true. That's why the government and I have seen that we have now delivered many cases to Stortinget, some demanding cases. I have assessed it so that we can wait until the autumn until the matter of heart and registry. Therefore, we will not promote that matter during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1092	I also have two questions for the Council of State. First, reference is made to the National Health Plan 2007-2010, and it states — it is also quoted in the State Council's letter to the Committee — that ‘accreditation/certification as a national quality instrument should be assessed’. When will this assessment be completed and when will the Storting be informed of the outcome of the assessment? The second is the register question. I mentioned in my post that the Council of State's letter places great emphasis on the need for records to be identity-identifiable, and that they must not be largely consent-based, even in sensitive areas such as psychiatry and drug problems. Why is it vital that patients themselves should not have a word in their mind on the question of which personal data should be stored about patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1099	To the first question, I have to say that I have a basic attitude to that question, which I think is very similar to the attitude of the representative of the payroll. If I become convinced that certification is a way to get better quality in hospitals, I will be very positive about it. That is why we asked the Health Directorate, who in turn asked the Knowledge Centre if there is any documented knowledge that certified hospitals have a better quality than uncertified hospitals. So far, the answers we get show that there's no evidence of such a relationship. Then there is a risk that certification means a lot of permes and paper and not better quality, and I would rather not spend the time in Norwegian hospitals. We're going to spend time getting better quality, not more pears and paper. The day we see a clearer relationship between certification and better quality, I will also be for it. Unfortunately, I did not have time to answer the second question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1106	I would like to ask the Council of State two questions. One goes almost the same as the representative in front of me. Why does the Council of State consider that health records with person-identifiable non-consent-based information are ‘a prerequisite for the quality indicator work’, as he writes in the letter? My second question is, when as many as 10 pst. of patients in Norwegian hospitals per month. Today, it is felt to be affected by unfortunate events, how long will the Council of State wait when he says that a new overall quality strategy is not yet relevant in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1113	The answer to the last question must be the day I feel that the strategies we have are not fruitful compared to working with the challenges we have. But I still believe that the strategies we have are relevant to the challenges we face. Then we need to spend time solving the challenges, not making new plans, as long as the plans we have are relevant. To the second question, I would like to say: the cancer register is a person-identifiable register. Everyone's going to end up there -- we're getting a knowledge of all the patients' pathways. As far as I know, there is no reference to one example where privacy interests related to the Cancer Register are abused. Now, of course, I'm aware that I'm getting the questions, but rhetorically, I could have thought of asking a question back: haven't we had great pleasure in the Cancer Register, exactly the way it worked? Yeah, everybody means that. Should we not then build on the experience of other serious challenges facing this healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1122	I also want to talk a little bit about the register. I know at least that if we're going to benefit from the register, it's so that what comes out of the register depends on what you get in. If a patient is to be trusted with firmness, it is important that patients know that they can be reliable with their decision-maker and do not risk completely sensitive information being compromised. That it comes down to error, I definitely think we have to admit, there's no system that's perfect. After all, we have had a number of promises in recent years, and we are making some proposals in our committee. It is watering down the tea requirement, and it is watering down the privacy concerns. Privacy still has to give up. My question is simple: Is not the Council of State concerned about this watering down of the obligations of the tea and privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1129	I very much disagree that we are diluting professional secrecy and privacy interests. I believe that this is a wrong description of reality. I believe that we should combine two ambitions, both good quality records that improve the health care system, as we have done in connection with the Cancer Register, and strict protection of privacy interests. As I said, I believe that I have good documentation through the person-identifiable quality records we have in Norway, that it is possible to achieve both objectives. The cancer register has not weakened privacy in Norway, but it has improved cancer treatment in Norway. I will now take this experience further, mainly to a heart and heart registry, as I believe that very many Norwegian patients are being treated too poorly, especially in connection with brain bleeding. I want to use the same methodology that we have in connection with the Cancer Register, to get the same quality lift in the heart/car area that we have received in the cancer field, through the same good type of personal protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1136	I would like to take the opportunity to continue the conversation we started instead, but it was interrupted by the clock. One of my questions is: Should I understand the Council's answers so that he believes that the assessment promised in the 2007-2010 National Health Plan is complete and that the conclusion – the negative conclusion – is the final conclusion of the Council of State? Or is there an assessment of the experience gained in Norway by hospitals that have introduced this on their own initiative? The second is the crucial point in the discussion about registers, which I have the feeling that the Council of State is missing, namely, the question: why is it vital that the patient should not have any words in the team, but that it is the system that is going to paternally override the patient's right to then say to own his own health information?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1145	The answer to the first question is: No, the conclusion that has been drawn is that I will not now recommend the certification of all Norwegian hospitals, is not a final, eternal position. It is not an ideological point of view, it is a practical point of view. If Norwegian hospitals that have tried certification, through their experience, can show that this will lead to better quality, better procedures for quality work, I think we absolutely need to listen to it. Then it may well be that the government can come back on its own to Stortinget with some suggestions about it. And next time the Right promotes such a proposal, I think we should be for it. To the second question, the important thing about this type of registry is that just all patient stories are included. I feel that the Cancer Register emphasizes very strongly that it is important that we have the whole of all patient history in the registry to learn from it. And as I said, so far no one has been able to point out privacy conflicts related to the Cancer Register.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1154	This means that the cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1172	Excuse me, President! At the beginning of the proceedings, case No. 2 it was said that it would also give rise to three-minute posts. This went so fast that it was not possible to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1177	I'm assuming that those who wanted the word would have drawn. No more speakers. So the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1180	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1185	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate on the Perspectives Communication be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and three lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1197	Sir. – I was saying County, but I'm getting it straight to President! Internationally, we are now facing the most serious economic crisis in a very long time. No one can be sure what time the situation will improve. Then, of course, it's imperative to discuss the long-term development, when we don't know what will happen in the next six months. Nevertheless, it is important and useful, even in times of crisis, to raise our eyes and analyse the challenges we face. Few would disagree that globalisation and the growth of international trade have had much to say for economic growth and better living standards in many countries. At the same time, closer integration makes us more vulnerable to tensions and unrest in other countries and in different markets. The financial crisis clearly shows this. The economic policies of the large countries will greatly affect developments in other nations. The latest experience has been unparalleled. Increased international competition provides cheaper products for consumers. In turn, it may unfortunately lead to the exploitation of weak groups and to the outsourcing of local production in poor areas. There are no simple solutions to these problems. But protectionism and less international consensual I don't think is the way to go. In this setting, the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left claim that the Government celebrates the market and market mechanisms. It's a little bit of an observation. The Labour Party has never seen free markets as an end in itself. Market mechanisms, on the other hand, can be an effective means of achieving the goals we see, whether they are better and more meaningful lives or lower emissions of greenhouse gases. Often, there are conditions that cause the mechanisms to fail to function perfectly. Political action and regulation are then absolutely necessary. A current example is found in the crisis that affects large parts of the financial market internationally. One lesson that we can draw from the financial crisis is that these markets must be governed. They cannot have free games. For the political right hand side, this lesson may have been painful. The Norwegian community is characterised by comprehensive, co-financed welfare schemes and even distribution of income. Nevertheless, in recent years we have seen a tendency that income growth has been strongest for groups with particularly high incomes. There is reason to believe that the main explanation is to find in increments in the registered investment income of the most prosperous. This trend must be counteracted. Public expenditure has increased as part of the value creation, and they now make up 51 pst. of GDP of mainland Norway. At least that was the picture for 2007. With a gradual increase in life expectancy, there will gradually be a large number of people who accept age-related social benefits. At the same time, resource use in the healthcare sector will increase sharply in the future as a result of the greatest increase in the older population. If we continue the current welfare arrangements and the existing level of taxation, we will subsequently face an increasing need for public funding. The development and development of public welfare schemes in line with higher income levels elsewhere in society is likely to be necessary in order to take care of the Norwegian welfare model. Even with optimistic price estimates, financing needs will have to be met. I note that the Progress Party finds the objective of strengthening welfare arrangements designed. The government clearly points out that, in the future, it is not possible to maintain current welfare arrangements without measures limiting public expenditure or increasing revenue. This is a reality and a political challenge that can be met in several ways. I'm taking a clear distance from constructing the goal. On the other hand, there is an important element in the further development of both the Norwegian and Nordic models. The solution to the Progress Party seems to be tax-free. The theory is that the dynamic effects are so strong that the reduction in the level of taxation is lifted or even increased in the long term. In my view, this reasoning is not a threat. As an argument, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left indicate that total tax revenue has increased substantially over the last three to four years, even though the tax level until 2005 has been reduced to stimulate growth. I remind you that this period was marked by a sharp upturn both internationally and here to countries. Increases in tax revenue came primarily as a result of the strong growth in activity, not because of tax relief under the bourgeois rule of this country. The adopted pension reform is important, but we do not know how much it will mean for the provision of work. In Norway, the proportion of the working-age population receiving health-related benefits is very high in an international context. A key challenge is to limit early retirement and early retirement from work through health-related social security systems. The regulatory framework for these schemes should be designed in such a way as to pay off at work. It must be justified by professional activity where possible. Employers have to look at their attitudes to employ people with reduced working capacity. The political choices we make today will undoubtedly have much to say about developments in important areas in the decades to come. If we base an annual growth in labour productivity of 2 pst., which is realistic, value creation and income per person. the population becomes more than double towards 2060. Such a development will lead to a much higher material wealth than we now experience. At the same time, projections show that we are facing major challenges related to the resilience of public welfare systems and to environmentally harmful emissions. Projections made by the Statistical Centre show that the proportion of the population aged over 67 will double towards 2060. This will have major economic implications for the expenditure on the State budget if current standards are to be followed. The perspective message assumes, on an uncertain basis, that the oil price will stay at a historically high level towards 2060. High petroleum revenues are likely to increase rapidly in the capital of the fund over the next few years. Nevertheless, the economic challenges for the state will be great. There will be an increasing discovery need in public finances. The working party does not consider tax credits to be useful or current. On the other hand, we will continue to place strong emphasis on Community solutions. Here we clearly stand out from the right side of Norwegian policy. In the setting, they often point to tax havens as an important tool in their political work. When the Storting four years ago dealt with the previous perspective message, the current government party wrote a joint note that outlined an alternative to the social developments that Bondevik's government wanted. A range of policy areas were mentioned. The current opposition party does not have the power or wish to do the same during the processing of the message that we are now debating. The comments in the settings tell a lot about the political landscape. Firstly, there is a dividing line between the Progress Party and all the other political parties. While the other parties have gathered on some common assessments of key driving forces and challenges, the Progress Party is consistently standing outside. This fact speaks its clear language. At the same time, there is a dividing line between the Advance Party and the Right on one side and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the other. Only a few places can be found in common notes from the opposition section. Journalist Kjetil Alstadheim has made his observations on the position of the Financial Committee in Today's Business for 8 May. He claims that the opposition party could have given a common answer to the red-green message that the election is about community or tax havens: ‘It would be possible to obtain if there was a will. But the will does not exist. So whoever's looking for traces of bourgeois collection in the setting will fail." That's the essence of the birthright of the political commentator in today's business. I definitely don't need to distance myself from Alstadheim's observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1241	The representative Sandal started by saying that it's important to avoid protectionism in the phase we're in now, and that it's important that world trade works as open as possible. That is good, and so is the Progress Party. Free world trade, free market economy, has caused millions of poverty in both Asia, Africa and South America, and that is the best way to get poor out of poverty. But then the representative Sandal comes to the conclusion that the market has to be regulated. I don't know which parts of the market to regulate, but I'd like to get a little bit deeper: how to regulate the market? Which part of the market is it to be regulated? And how is it to be done without going beyond world trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1248	I am very happy to answer that question. I think it is relatively sensational that the representative Hagesetter needs a guide on what it is in our time that shows that there is a need for regulation. I think the most striking example is the enormous problems that the international financial crisis has brought on us. There is now a recognition, even in the more conservative American environments, that market regulation is necessary. In fact, I also believed that an experienced parliamentarian like Hageseter, representing the Progress Party, had realized that there was a need, both internationally and in our own country. My point was that the latest experience has shown us that those who have believed in the free forces, who are supposed to be free in the market, have a difficult time now. That is the clearest example. It is necessary to govern and regulate, including: like we've done here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1257	We have heard a lot from the chairman of the committee about the challenges ahead of us. We have heard a lot about how wrong what the opposition thinks in the setting is, and we have heard very little about the Workers' Party's own solutions, but with one exception. In the setting, the Workers' Party states that they agree with the view that ‘there is likely to be a high potential for efficiency in the public sector’. It is an important area. The central bank manager mentioned it today, he mentioned it last year. It is a pity that the Workers' Party and the Chairman of the Committee have spent four years discovering that there is such a potential. There have been three strong years in the Norwegian economy where something could be done about this. What is the reason why there has been a political change in the direction of modernising the public sector, when it is considered that there is a significant potential for efficiency improvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1264	I mean that the agent Fleet was injured in drawing a picture of my and the Workers' Party's opinions that are not covering. We stand firm that there is an efficiency potential in the public sector. I actually think it's in state action, I think it's in state administration, and it's probably also in most municipalities. So we're going to stick to that goal. But it is important to be aware that during the period we are now behind, we have been busy strengthening the welfare supply in the municipal sector significantly when it concerns the development of kindergartens and the supply of older people. It has also been necessary to strengthen the well-being of the hospital sector. This has cost money. We haven't been able to go loose on hard-handed shavings that would collide with these heavy welfare tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1272	In his speech, the representative Sandal presented a real challenge, namely the increase in the number of older people, who would require more of the service provision, not least at municipal level. Regarding the need for increased public effort, the Communication states that there is also a need to look at user payments: ‘Increasing the element of user payment reduces the need for public funding on a given scale of services. User payments may also contribute to a better understanding of the underlying needs of the demand for services than if the use of an offer is free or near free of charge.’;» My question to the representative Sandal is: In what areas does the representative Sandal think it is necessary to increase user payments?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1284	The question is a rental – I will still answer it. In the settings and also in the message provided by the Government, user payment is problematic. We have user payments to some extent today, which the representative Syversen is well aware of. What's the main signal from the Labour Party and the government party in the setting is that we're critical to increase the amount of user payment because it could hit people and groups in society who don't have the financial ability to do well. My main answer is therefore that we signal that we will generally not increase the user payment. Therefore I have no group to specify, as the representative Syversen invited to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1291	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1294	First of all, I just want to point out that the Progress Party will later have a separate article in the hall that goes on energy, the environment and the climate. So to those who are going to attack me because I don't bring it up: it's going to be taken up later. I'm sorry to have to say that, but the perspective message is obviously not a document the government has chosen to spend a lot of time on. And that's a shame, because correct long-term economic forecasts and demographic developments are the very foundation of the policy that needs to be pursued. The Perspective Communication describes a trend that is in stark contrast to that policy, and not least the rhetoric, the Government is leading. The notification is initially a tribute to the market economy and increased global trade. The Communication highlights the ability of the market economy to create material prosperity and points out that global trade has brought millions of people out of poverty. The government further writes that international trade has been primarily an opportunity to get more back for its own efforts, and is not a threat to employment and living standards. These are the words of Adam Smith, and they are in stark contrast to the rhetoric of the Minister of Finance relating to the ongoing financial crisis, in which she proclaims the downfall of capitalism and the collapse of the market economy. The communication of perspectives is a good mix of political concessions, contradictions, paradoxes and unrealistic projections. It gives a precise description of the past, but is a very poor analysis of societal developments in the future. The main objective of the Communication of Perspectives shall be to present key analyses as a basis for economic policy in the future. The analysis of the notification extends until the year 2060. The aim is to point to some long-term challenges and the choices we have. The message shows that the Government's vision is to be able to leave to the next generation "something more valuable" than what our generation took over. Some cryptic ambition, in other words. According to the Government, the main objectives are work for all, sustainable development, a more ‘fair distribution’ and the strengthening of welfare systems. In other words, four slogans have been taken from previous election campaigns and tried to translate them into practical policies. Unfortunately, the government has failed very well. The Communication of Perspectives reveals major challenges for Norway in the coming years. Despite the Government's claims that the Norwegian economy is characterised by high levels of professional participation and good adaptability, the Government in its next breath mentions challenges that make the same claims in its heels and not least make the main objectives of the Government very difficult to achieve. A number of analyses show that current economic policies are unsustainable. In the introduction on page 8, it says: «Long-term projections show that there is a need for measures limiting public expenditure or increasing revenue in the future, even if the quality and extent of public services should not be increased beyond the current level». In other words, the Government will be forced over time to reduce public expenditure or increase tax burden in order to achieve the same welfare offer as today, and the main objective of strengthening welfare schemes seems to be distant. When this is combined with the analysis on the same page 8 that ‘the possibilities for a general increase in an already high level of taxation are limited’, it goes into the range of inconsistencies in the notification. The Progress Party shares the Government’s view that the Norwegian tax level is high, but it is in stark contrast to the previous statements made by the Minister of Finance that Norway has a moderate level of taxation and that the challenges in the welfare sector could result in increased taxes in the future. Actually, it's not related. Furthermore, the Perspective Communication states that high labour input is important for the well-being of the future. In addition, it says: ‘We must organise ourselves so that those with a working capacity consider increased efforts in paid working life to be the most natural way of raising their own standard of living’. More specifically, admitting that current policies make it easy to live on public transfers is difficult to get there. Perhaps that's how interesting it is to use the government's vocabulary. Obviously, there are no requirements here. It may almost seem as if the Government assumes that another government will take over and solve the challenges. The Party of Progress is at its disposal! No one disagrees that work for everyone should be a natural political objective. It would appear that some launched the slogan ‘Work to Half’. The best measurement barometer to find out if government policy is actually approaching the goal of working for everyone is to get into the statistics. Norway has a low recorded unemployment rate, even among the lowest in Europe. That's basically good. At the same time, Norway has one of the highest numbers of people living on social security or other public transfers. In total, this represents approx. 630 000 people or about 630 000 people. 25 pst. of all employed persons, aged between 18 and 65. Under the red-green government, this number has been increasing, and despite the good economic times we've put behind us. These developments have been despite the growing safety and security of Norwegian workers, better organised work stations, longer vacations, better leave arrangements and shorter working hours. In fact, it would have been a long way to go if many of those currently in social security statistics had rather been in the statistics on the unemployed and had therefore been actively looking for work. But of course it would have destroyed the Prime Minister’s electoral campaign rhetoric that Norway should be the country in Europe with the least unemployed. From the past, we know that the government has removed prison queues by releasing prisoners before the sentence has been passed, and so it can at least be concluded that the Government’s use of figures and statistics is consistent. I would like to admit that there are no simple solutions to the challenges associated with the relationship between social security and work. But that the challenge is one of the most central in society, is raised above any doubt. The Norwegian economy may continue to bear the financial burdens of such social security payments. Much more serious is that we are getting a two-thirds society, where the last third is permanently out of work. The prospective notification shall provide analyses up to the year 2060. Then it is worrying that the government almost overlooks this development. Should work for all become a reality, it is obvious that we politicians collectively must be willing to think new. Working for everyone is something quite different than money for everyone. Work gives dignity and gives life an important dimension, and no welfare schemes can ever replace it. Work gives self-confidence and a sense of mastery. Work is a manifestation that others need something you can contribute to. But in order to achieve a goal of work for all, there are several conditions that need to be put in place. In today's tearing technological development, we depend entirely on competent and knowledgeable workers. To achieve this, we need to re-establish an educational system that demands the individual and at the same time rewards those who are willing to acquire knowledge. Knowledge does not come of itself. Knowledge is acquired through hard work, and it again requires classrooms without noise. If we want knowledge-rich students, we also need to create a knowledge-thirst in the students. To achieve this, we need to make it clear to the students that there is a clear link between good school results and later careers. The school shall not be a place of residence but a learning venue that stimulates curiosity and intellectual activity. However, if the students are to learn more, we need more and more skilled educators in school. We must therefore give teachers the opportunity to increase their skills and their ability to communicate. The Progress Party therefore believes that the introduction of a five-year teacher training and increased admission requirements for teacher training will increase the competence of teachers and not least the status of teachers. Furthermore, performance-based salaries should be introduced for teachers, as recommended by the OECD, which will provide a good incentive for the individual teacher, while leading to fewer teachers leaving the school. A revitalised primary school education with knowledge-enhancing pupils and motivated teachers will provide the basis for a hard-to-reach grant in higher education and research. The Progress Party therefore wants a strong strengthening of the commitment to knowledge and research across society. If we seriously want to lay the groundwork for work for all, and not just talk about it, both relevant basic research and industrial research need to be strengthened considerably. At the same time, through the annual budgets, we must give tax incentives to businesses, so that they find it appropriate to give priority to technological development rather than short-term sales and profits. A step in such a direction will include, for example: the elimination of the special orphan wealth tax, which captivates the enterprises for equity. In order to create jobs, we need business owners and employers, we need private capital, and we need incentives that reward people who take risks and are innovative. We need incentive systems that reward more people who contribute to their labour force. In other words, we need incentives that stimulate value creation and economic growth. A significant contribution to creating this growth will be to provide tax incentives to increase the supply of labour. Tax reductions have a dynamic effect while giving a clear signal to the individual worker that the authorities value the contribution of individuals to society’s value creation. In his answer to one of the written questions of the Advance Party on the matter, the Minister of Finance said the following: «Changes in tax and pension schemes that increase the financial gain for individuals by working are important to motivate them to work.» These will be measures that will motivate people to ‘select work rather than social security’! Yes, if this is the minister's conviction, then what is she reluctant to do? The perspective communication is naturally based on a number of statistical forecasts and population projections that have implications for Norway’s fiscal space in the future. This applies, inter alia, to: life expectancy and immigration. A general conclusion is that the proportion of older people in the population will increase. This will involve increased pension costs and increased expenditure on health and care services. This combined with the population’s expectations of standard improvements will mean that private solutions will push ahead. The analysis carried out in relation to demographic challenges related to population projections is very poor. Despite the fact that in all other contexts the Government chooses to distinguish between so-called immigrants and other immigrants – which I suppose should not work – the Government chooses this time to treat all immigrants as a whole. This is obviously made quite conscious, so that the welfare costs of immigration from certain countries cannot be identified but, on the contrary, compensated against the net contribution of immigrants to the community. The Perspective Communication presents three alternative scenarios for future migration to Norway. For unexplained reasons, the Communication states that the increase in the number of immigrants we have experienced in the last 30 years will end in the current year — in the 2009 election year — and that immigration to Norway will be halved by 2020. As the Government chooses to equalise migration from Western and non-Western countries, it is close to believing that the decline in the number of immigrants is explained by the impact of the financial crisis on the Norwegian labour market and that in 2010 Norway will have fewer workers from EEA countries. There's no reason to claim this. All statistics and empirical evidence shows that immigration to Norway is exponential. This is particularly true of immigration from countries in Asia and Africa, as is the case among others. is due to the liberal immigration policy of Norway. Last week, the Central Statistical Office provided real figures for immigration to Norway in 2008. They showed a record high immigration rate of 67,000 people, 5,000 more than in the record year 2007. The 2009 forecasts show the same trend. At the same time, the Government is promoting a document claiming that immigration to Norway will be 40 000 persons in 2009 and that it will be halved to 20 000 persons by 2020 at the same time is simply driving the Norwegian people behind the light. The cost of non-Western migration has been estimated by the Central Bureau to be much higher than the income generated by immigration, and the net cost is particularly high for immigrants coming from the countries of Norway receiving most of the immigrants. In particular, it is worrying that second-generation immigrants do not increase their professional participation to a particular extent, while receiving social security and using social security schemes. It is alarming that such crucial information is omitted in a message to analyse the long-term challenges and options of the Norwegian economy. The government's attempt to sweep the demographic and economic realities under the carpet makes the perspective message less relevant and braves the Government for credibility. Finally, I would like to report that the Progress Party supports the two proposals promoted by the Right and Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1382	The Progress Party is committed to distinguish between labour and immigration for the rest – as was also evident in the introduction of the Tybring-Gjedde representative now – and to providing the real costs and impacts of immigration. Reference is then made to calculations by Professor Kjetil Storsletten, which show that the contribution of immigrants to the Norwegian economy is negative. However, as the financing contribution is calculated by Storsletten, an average Nordmann will also have a negative contribution to public finances. This is because we initially receive more services and transfers from the government than we pay in taxes and taxes. We'll take the interval as known from the oil revenue. What does the representative Tybring-Gjedde suggest that we do with this, because it is not as easy to get rid of an average Northman?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1387	To the representative of Health, there is no doubt that immigrants from non-Western countries incur a higher cost than ethnic averages. If the representative Sund doubts it, if she doubts the statistics, she can investigate what the cost of social security, social security schemes, crisis centres, child protection. With her experience from the municipalities, she knows very well who causes the most wear and tear on the public services in this country. Immigrants, especially from non-Western countries, are overrepresented in absolutely all areas. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to limit non-Western immigration in order to reduce these costs. In this perspective message, at least you have to describe the reality, and not pretend it doesn't happen at all. The most likely number of immigrants in 2020 is closer to 100,000 than the 20 000 estimated by the Government, and then we get real challenges for the welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1392	We know that tax havens are a good place to stick away dishonestly earned money, and the red-green government has done a lot to combat this kind of economic crime, among other things. by working to open up tax havens. However, Gjermund Hageseter of the Progress Party believes: «Tax paradises create a healthy tax competition We should therefore pay tribute to the tax havens.» [[...]] He says this to the Evening Post in February 2008. The perspective message is about raising our eyes a little bit and seeing what kind of government alternatives we can face, and even if there's a lot of difference in the perspective message, it's probably not surprising that the Progress Party can be part of a government either. Then it might be interesting to know if Gjermund Hagesetter's comment on the Evening Post is still the Policy of the Advance Party. Has e.g. The party of progress, if they come into government, is going to put a dead end to the work of the Government against hidden assets in the tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1406	Tax competition is healthy. Economic crime is crime and must be combated. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1411	It is in many ways clarifying to listen to the representative Tybring-Gjedde. The Progress Party is built on a maritime-regulating market economy, dynamic tax policies and minimised public interference with the economy. But now there is also work for everyone. Work is not difficult to find, but income for their work, such as the employee or the seafarer, in order to pay the Norwegian level of costs, is different. The Progress Party is against country-wide tariff agreements, against cooperative turnover in the primary industries balancing the buyer and seller’s interests – a systematic policy that implies greater differences. The work of the Progress Party to all therefore means, through lower incomes, wages, for those who have little power in the labour and business life, even less agility in economic conditions in Norway — that is, Difference Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1418	It sounded more like a kind of appell than a line or a question. The Progress Party believes that people will be paid according to what they produce, and we believe that it may be different. Even if you are in the same industry, one enterprise can, for example, a furniture manufacturer, be forward-looking, produce and earn money. Another furniture manufacturer may not be equally farsighted and does not make money. We don't necessarily believe that all the workers in both companies deserve the same salary, as the representative Lundtigen thinks. We believe that you should be paid after work and pay after what you produce, and since we live in a market economy, the market will reward those who actually produce the goods you need – and then we will take care of those who might fall outside such a system. That is what the Progress Party believes. If you think you can decide here in Stortinget that everyone should have equal pay through a general wage increase, then the representative Lundtigen should go in order that everyone should have equal pay regardless of industry – that would be fair. It's quite the same -- it's perfectly fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1427	The communication provides a good basis for discussing the long-term challenges. I want to focus on the two main challenges that are also highlighted in the perspective communication. The first relates to how we are going to finance the welfare society after 2020 when oil revenue goes down and the cost of pensions, health and care is rising sharply. As the perspective statement points out, by the year 2060 we will have almost doubled the number of people over 67. It'll give us some very special challenges. The second main challenge — how to limit the global temperature increase to two degrees — will require global greenhouse gas emissions to fall after 2015 and to be halved towards 2050. This will require a quantum leap in environmental policy over the next decade. While we are dealing with this perspective message, both Norway and the rest of the world are affected by the financial crisis. I guess it's not an exaggeration to say that we also have to deal with an environmental crisis. Paradoxically, the two crises we are in – the environmental crisis and the financial crisis – can trigger a necessary policy mix that can provide us with a better and more sustainable foundation for our welfare society. In environmental policy, there is a striking gap between the political recognition of the rather dramatic consequences of global warming and the objectives and instruments implemented, both nationally and internationally. Environmental policy continues to be marked by a long-standing wait-and-see attitude. Although concrete action is being taken in Norway and concrete action is being taken by other countries, it is by no means sufficient — or close to being sufficient — to deal with the rather dramatic consequences we can face. Now I'm not going to go into the debate that was held here earlier today, in the industry. But also it was characterized by a lot of rhetoric and description of dramatic consequences and less of which policy complications are needed. I'll limit myself to pointing to three. One is the need for more renewable energy, the need for new and more powerful instruments to trigger more renewable energy in Norway. The second is the importance of investing far more in research and development. When you look at TV advertisements – now there are probably not so many of them in these days, but if we go back a year, it is a paradox that Toyota could advertise that they spent up to 20 billion kroner a year to produce an environmentally friendly car, while in Norway we often argue that we should grant 100 million. SEK or 200 million. kr for various research projects. However, once Toyota has chosen to do this, it's because they recognize that they will succeed in competition in the future, they have to produce cars that people want. Politicians are expected to impose stricter requirements and consumers are expected to demand more environmentally friendly cars. The third is that we must have instruments that play even more with the market and not with the market. This applies to both individuals and businesses. Private individuals should not only find it more beneficial to choose collectively but also to buy more environmentally friendly cars. I believe that the most important challenge is to motivate and stimulate companies to produce products that generate lower greenhouse gas emissions, and that packaging that through its production involves lower greenhouse gas emissions is also used. We will only succeed when companies see that those who will succeed in competition and who will make money in the future are those who produce the most environmentally friendly products. I'm not afraid if Norway takes any steps forward in that development. I think that will help Norway to gain competitive advantage and safer and more sustainable jobs. Another issue relates to how to use the economic space we have ahead of 2020, so that we can ensure well-being after 2020. We are lucky to have a great oil and gas wealth in Norway – I would like to stress that it is an oil and gas wealth. I think it doesn't matter how we use oil money compared to how we use other tax revenues to the state. While other tax revenue comes from work and consumption, oil income comes from a wealth. That's why I think it's absolutely vital that we have more ambitions for how we spend that money than for how we spend other taxes. When the so-called action rule was adopted, it was agreed that the money would be used to invest in research and development, in transport, infrastructure and tax relief to create better framework conditions for businesses. I am absolutely sure that if the same environmental challenges were seen at the time of what we see now, a fourth objective would be added, namely investment in environmentally friendly technology, investments that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why the Right, together with the Left, is promoting a proposal on this, and we understand that the Progress Party supports it. It could trigger extra tens of billions of dollars for environmental investments in the coming years. That's what the Right considers necessary. We are committed to using the action space towards 2020 to provide a basis for our well-being society. It's about investing more in knowledge and school. It is totally unacceptable that there is still one in five who leaves primary school without being able to read and write properly. It's totally unacceptable that almost one in three falls off during high school. We need to have higher ambitions for our school policy. If we are to build the knowledge society, create strong knowledge-based enterprises that are at the top of the world in their field, we must show both the will to implement policies and the will to give priority to knowledge and school policies. The same applies to transport, where it now seems to be a broader recognition in all political camps that we cannot be familiar with having Europe's worst road network. We have to make sure that we build more roads, that we build faster roads and that we focus more on infrastructure in the years to come. The latter is linked to better business framework conditions. We need to make it easier both to start and to run small and medium-sized enterprises. I feel quite certain that it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that will be involved and withdraw Norway from the economic crisis we are in, but then they also need to be subject to framework conditions. In addition, a different tax policy is needed. It must be profitable to work, to invest, to save money — it is to build up under societal values, and it must also help to stimulate fiscal policies. I would also like to stress the importance of resuming public sector modernisation efforts. There is a significant potential in the state, and not least in the municipal sector, where I believe that greater and more robust municipalities need to be provided with better welfare and better interaction between the public and private sectors, both in road construction and service production, and, as the bourgeois parties stress, create a greater room for voluntary organisations and civil society. The space for action we have in the state economy towards 2020 is underlined both in the perspective announcement and in a report from Erling Holmøy in the Statistical Central Bureau. He writes in Economic Analysis No. 4 for 2008: ‘Although the real price of oil does not stay higher than in 2006, there is scope for significant tax relief and improvements to current public welfare schemes up to approx. 2020.’» That's the decade we have to make sure that we get a priority of actions that can strengthen value creation and provide a better basis for our welfare society. And that's the decade we have to make sure that we get to a completely necessary quantum leap in environmental policy, so that we create a more sustainable society. With that I will address the suggestions that the Right and Left promote in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1480	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1485	Now I could tell the representative, Mr. Sanner, who said to me in the last debate we had here in the Chamber, that he must be tired, that was an empty post. But I'm not going to say that, on the contrary, I'm going to say that it was a surprising positive and constructive post, which I think stands by the message we're dealing with today, the perspective message. The representative Sanner was afraid of the economic development after oil time in Norway, and we are all. That's why it's very good that the New York Times now refers to Norway and the finance minister. The representative also said that he hoped that the environmental crisis and the economic crisis would lead to a total change in policy. We remember the election campaign four years ago, when we traveled around and there was a risk of school closures, old-age homes, etc., so I want to ask when the Right is going to change its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1494	Our policies are on track. We are committed to using fiscal policies to ensure both well-being and to provide a basis for safe jobs. We did that in the last period, and so do we now. Let me also say that I've read that article in the New York Times. I always think it's nice that Norwegians and Norwegian policies are boasted, but with all due respect: the boast that lies there, is essentially about politics that SV at least before was against, because it's about the Petroleum Fund, it's about the rule of action, and it's about investing in shares. I am very pleased that the finance minister, from SV, is now investing in shares, I believe that is also reasonable. I am pleased that Norway is boasting, and I believe that there is justifiable boast that is in that article. We want to build on the rule of action and a reasonable use of oil money, as I explained in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1501	In view of the upcoming elections and possible government constellations, we have seen that the Right at its last national meeting opened the gate high and wide to the Progress Party. It will then be exciting to follow the ambitions of Sanner on how oil money will be used in any cooperation with the Progress Party. Enough about that. On my line to Tybring-Gjedde from the Advance Party he replied that they would fight financial crime – it would be just a lack. But he had no comment on what they would do with tax havens, nor on Gjermund Hagesetter's previous statements in that regard. Gardensets say that tax havens create a healthy tax competition. I'm familiar with what the current government is doing in terms of tax havens. Will the representative Sanner and Right follow up on the work of the current government to resolve tax havens or will they follow the lines of the Progress Party and pay tribute to the tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1508	I am not quite sure whether the representative Gjermund Hagesetter has formulated itself as it is now referred to. I also believe that tax competition can be healthy, but I am opposed to tax havens, and I fully agree with everything that is done in terms of international cooperation to wind up the tax havens. They do not bring anything good with them – on the contrary, I believe that we should avoid this. But healthy international tax competition must be tolerated. Otherwise, the Right has been crystal clear that the bourgeois majority must give a bourgeois government. This is because we believe there is a need for a new course and policy in Norway to secure jobs and to create a better basis for value creation. The representative will be able to see from the idea that civil parties agree in many areas, both in terms of knowledge and transport, and in terms of greater space for civil society and cooperation with private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1515	As the financial crisis develops, the consequences in the real economy are becoming the most demanding, not least in relation to our competitive business. We are facing an enormous transformation. We are in line with the Center Party's assessment of a shift towards longer value chains to process our natural resources. We are facing transition in terms of shifts in technology, less energy-intensive processes and a maritime transition to renewable energy. This transition requires a lot of long-term, risky and reasonable capital. The Central Party has made its proposals on this, where the development of Innovation Norway to become a powerful state bank in these energy areas can be a complement. What is the Right Civilian option in obtaining the necessary capital for this conversion in today's and the market that we see close in front of us, which is very private-dried?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1522	Lundtigen pointed to an important issue related in particular to the short-term perspective, where we see that banks have now almost normalised their lending to individuals, and that families can enjoy very cheap loans, while they are still tightening up towards businesses. I believe that I raise a question as to whether these bank packages work as intended. I believe that we need to continue to discuss further measures to make the banking system work in a more satisfactory way vis-à-vis the companies. In addition, we believe that there is a need for other instruments vis-à-vis businesses, including: we have proposed to lower the employer's fee. It will reduce the cost of having people working in businesses. In addition, we will step down the wealth tax, which will free up more private capital. I believe that private capital and private ownership are the main challenge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1531	We are still early in the debate. If we look back at the debate four years ago, I remember we were driving and muttering and building what was the traveling work for what is our red-green government project. We had written together in notes, we had written together in suggestions, we had shown in which direction we would go, we had shown what kind of other tax policy we would pursue, and we had shown that we would bet on well-being and a different policy for Norway than the right-hand side was heading for at that time. It's not like that today. To put it very simply, I can't see any opposition standing together and making the travel agency a new government project from the right. On the contrary, it's completely broken. To a certain extent, you have a relationship between the old Bondeviks, which are still happy with each other, and you have the Progress Party, which just says, "We don't want to be on the main weight of what the others stand for, we want to lead our own line." At least there is no clear ‘driving’ that shows a clear direction for an alternative. But it's clear, seriously. It's okay that the opposition doesn't use this chance to show that here they have an alternative to the government that sits and that has clear visions for the future. It's okay, but it's like an opportunity loss on the right hand side and a good opportunity for us to show that we and our alternative point to the future in a common way. But let me focus on the two major areas that make the perspective message important for the future. I am reasonably sure that this will be a basis for the further forecasts and the further debates, along with some of the other investigations we have recently received. Let me talk about environment and climate. We have had a climate debate here earlier today, where some of us from the Finance Committee also participated in the debate. There is no doubt that the climate challenge is the greatest challenge we face in the years ahead. We know that there is a broad majority of people who believe that setting ambitious international goals and being able to live up to them through the climate agreement is crucial. But if the climate is really the most important thing, and if you see the outlines of possible government cooperation – the clearest government cooperation, as I see it – between the Right and the Advance Party, there are at least no elderly solutions we see for the climate in the time to come. Firstly, we do not even agree on the extent of this problem. The Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen showed very clearly that on the climate front there is still full internal division in the Progress Party between people who believe that yes, this may be something we have to do with, and people who say that well, we have some international agreements we've made, so we're going to deal with it at least, as Carl I. Hagen said. But there is no doubt that among the peoples of the Progress Party who were on the platform, it was clear that the scepticism that climate problems are so real was so great. It was even called the government's view of this to be blind. We were 'blind' when it came to the climate policy we were pursuing, because we had an important climate policy. But look at the climate challenges. There's the Right and the Advance Party clock ready. If one is to choose between public transport and road traffic development in the time to come, it is very clear that a dark blue majority is going to be a disaster. The progress party even says in its comments that they are going to build motorways between all the big cities in the country. There is no use for motorways. It's a huge, hard, wasted investment that's going to turn more goods onto trucks and lead to more fatal accidents on the roads. And it's clearly going to be negative for the climate instead of getting both passenger traffic and more of freight traffic onto the railway. Nuclear power is agreed upon. It is now time to develop nuclear power in Norway. It is like the great environmental concept to be done from the Right and the Advance Party – to start with nuclear power. There is agreement between the dark blue right parties to start building sheltered watercourses. There is a clear consensus that oil drilling should be done in Lofoten and the West Pole. There are two of the parties in the government that are perfectly clear that this is what we are against. The S.B. and the Center Party are on the clock. Then we have the Workers' Party, which we've been told in this period that we're going to leave it. I have an ambition that we'll be able to do it in the next period. When it comes to climate, it's just a dark reading of what it's like if the right-hand side gets through. No good action will be taken to reduce climate change emissions. In all the important things, the right-hand side selects the constant and consistent wrong line. The second piece is community and distribution. There is no doubt that if you look at how the right side, that is, the Advance Party and the Right, speaks about the distribution and report of the Distribution Committee, with Ådne Cappelen at the top – a unanimous report, which also NHO agreed to say what is important in order to distribute in Norway – you can see from the Right that you were fundamentally skeptical, and Jan Tore Sanner was fundamentally skeptical, so that someone would get worse for others to get better. Right and Jan Tore Sanner were, in other words, skeptical for good, old-fashioned distribution policy, among other things. through taxes. The progress party, both Tybring-Gjedde and Ulf Leirstein, was aware that it is actually not an independent goal that there should be an even distribution in Norway. Tybrung-Gjedde has just said that there should be greater differences in wages between people doing the same type of work and jobs within the same industry. I would say that the fact that we have had equal pay within industries has made Norway have a resilient economy. It's just looking at the United States. That's where the median income, that's the average income, has stood still in the last ten years. This is the Dream Society of the Advance Party – it is the United States. I am sure that Christian Tybring-Gjedde will swear on any book that he agrees with. But if you look at the developments that have occurred in the United States, it has been negative for ordinary workers, so you are interested in implementing the same type of system in Norway. I'd like to hear from the Right if you agree with that line. Should differences be increased in order to take account of the labour market constraints imposed by the Progress Party, or will it be ensured that what is the welfare state and developments in Norway? But let me take the other thing that's important for distribution, because it was also Jan Tore Sanner in his post, namely the drop-out in high school and the differences that lie just in that there are a good number of people who don't get high school, or the education that is necessary. There I think you see very clear differences in it, we should say, the penal school that the Right Party and the Advance Party add up to, and the knowledge school that our government adds up to, and says is important. Once again, it's the distribution committee that makes a recommendation, and says, let's gradually phase out the cash support, let's give people free core time in the kindergartens, because that's what will make sure that the differences are erased, that you get less difference, and that people will succeed in school. Research-based results show that kindergarten bets are good for children. Research-based results show that food at school will provide better learning for students. Research-based results show that more physical activity will be good for children in school. Nevertheless, the Right and Advance Party will say no to this and rather bring their own dark blue experiments on level differentiation from first class and grades much earlier in school. This is in a way the options that stand up to each other, and which I believe are crucial perspectives that are important to discuss when looking at what kind of line to choose further in time to come. We are now in a situation where unemployment is increasing. We've had the lowest unemployment, people have been in work. Good action has been taken to prevent the differences, in relation to strengthening housing support, in relation to providing a more social housing policy, in relation to raising the smallest social security benefits — all the interventions are important to ensure that there are fewer people living on low income in Norway. But if we look at the world of work, there is a huge difference between the policies that have been pursued under our government, and the one that was led under the previous one, which I think there is reason to fear will be brought back again if you get a new majority on the Storting where the Right and the Advance Party are at the head. Because we have a very clear choice: are we going to do what the right-hand side did last time, do we have to cut cash in order to force people into work, or are we going to make sure to invest in skills and more labour market measures, as our government has done? Are we going to work to balance the differences in wages between women and men, or are we going to do what the right-hand side strongly argues for, no world thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1568	The representative had very few perspectives on his own behalf when it was about climate, but he had many opinions about the Progress Party and climate. But it was a black-and-white vision he presented, and black-and-white images are little suitable for providing perspective. It is obvious that the Progress Party is to further develop the oil industry in Norway. At the same time, we know that SV, if they protest for all the world, is still involved in and supporting the expansion of Goliath, as the Government itself says, is an important first step in relation to further petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. Minister for the Environment Solheim is opposed to oil activities in Norway, but is cheering when Norway joins and finances the oil industry in Ghana. From a long-term perspective, it is therefore interesting to know what the representative Holmås thinks about the government's own policy, when today tens of millions of dollars are spent on financing projects in developing countries to ensure that the oil sector gets started and produces, and thus has the opportunity to grow in the long term as an important energy producer in those countries. Is that reasonable, or is it too bad in relation to SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1573	I think it makes a lot of sense, and I'm very positive, as we've seen, and as Norway contributes when we're out in other countries, that the money benefits the whole people when countries decide to invest in oil. If you look at both Latin America and Ghana, which you're drawing up here, we're going through the Development Program Oil to make sure you get transparent, transparent, systems that make people understand how the oil money is developing, who gets the contracts, to avoid corruption, and to make sure that this money benefits the whole people. I think that's good. I mean, for example. that some of the things that have been super from the Norwegian side are that we have provided a high level of oil taxation. We have 78 pst. oil taxes, and in addition, we have the state's direct holdings. All these things make oil development in Norway beneficial to the whole community and to the whole people. If the Progress Party had achieved the impact of its tax haven on the oil industry, Norway would probably lose thousands of billions. [[The President clubs.]] But Ketil Solvik-Olsen knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1578	The President will remember that all posts should be directed to the President, and that when the red lamp ceases to light, the mouth should also stop moving.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1581	I note that the right in this debate has increased speaking time. First I spoke 10 minutes about the Right, and then the representative Heikki Holmås chose to speak 10 minutes about the Right. It's okay to get in election mode, but I think the representative Heikki Holmås will notice that the voters are quite tired of politicians talking about just shit about other parties – excuse the expression, President! But I don't think Holmås will get very uplifted through the campaign by laying down on such a level. I think you're talking a little bit more about your own policy. I would therefore challenge the representative Heikki Holmås on a note that SV has been in, where it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, notes that productivity has been very high in Norway in the last decade compared to other OECD countries. There are several factors involved, among others market deregulation and good welfare arrangements. [[...]] This is the Nordic welfare model. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1591	The President will draw attention to the fact that the expression ‘talking shit’ is not a parliamentary expression despite the subsequent lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1594	I think Jan Tore Sanner knows very well what he is talking about when it comes to running that kind of campaign, that is, a 'third' campaign – which it is not allowed to say. I fully agree that productivity development is essential to ensure that we have a positive development of the welfare state. Just to bet on knowledge, as we do, to bet on knowledge being made available to the maximum possible, precisely by doing what I say and mean – and which I also mentioned in my post – is crucial in terms of school investment, in relation to a knowledge school where we have more focus on learning, where we have more support for the individual student, where we have the introduction of free core time and free pre-school for students who go to kindergarten, and who are approaching school age. All these measures, the knowledge effort, having a good labour market, are the most important steps to boost productivity in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1601	SV and Left agree that there should be no oil and gas activity outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. The left has gone so far as to say – for this is also important, perhaps one important area where we are completely consistent – that we cannot sit in any government and manage oil and gas activity outside the Lofoten. And everyone who wants to cooperate with us must know. There's been a lot of discussion about SV saying the same thing. Today, the representative Holmås used the concept that we have an “ambitious” to achieve it, but he knows well that it can happen that the Great Brother Workers' Party in the next period, when the management plan is available, decides to go for it. And this is really the long-term perspective Norway has to avoid. Then I experienced from my point of view that the SV at his country meeting had a dynamic that went very far in the direction where the Left's position is. Can the representative Heikki Holmås confirm that even SV can in reality not sit in any government if there is oil and gas activity outside the Lofoten and the Vesterål?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1610	Now we are in a government that has already been able to stop the oil extraction beyond the Lofoten and the Vestral, and it is our goal that we should do so in the next period as well: sit in a government that does not expand oil activity in the Lofoten and the West Pole. And we're making this one of our main issues in the campaign, precisely because we're serious. But starting a debate on such an important question by asking the ultimatum of the public I don't think is the right way to hold a debate for government parties. Then I also think a lot of people in the Workers' Party, who could well have thought to put the ultimatum the other way, had got water on the mill, and then I think we have it going. Now Lars Sponheim has been very clear that he will not sit in any government with the Progress Party at all. But I think that Lars Sponheim much rather wants a government – he gets the opportunity later – which consists of SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1617	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1621	There is a noble goal The government is presenting in the introduction to the perspective message. There is almost a rewrite of the pawn's credo: “Our vision is that we can leave to the next generation something more valuable than what we took over.” So the question is, is there an increase in the well-being of the individual, or is there an increase in the quality of life of the individual to whom it is aimed? Nothing specific is supported in the notification. It might be interesting if the council said something about it. In many ways, the message of perspective points to our challenges as a society. And I don't think there's much disagreement in this room about what's the biggest challenge. I see that the Progress Party does not agree with part of the joint comments that the rest of the Committee has, but if I am going to add the goodwill, then the Progress Party is at least one of the same in its particular comment. What is certain, as is also stated in the Communication, is that the world economy has had a development over the past 10–15 years that a perspective announcement 10–15 years ago might not have seen. Many – and that is positive – are promised out of poverty, many have had a much better life around the world. Then we're going to hope that the phase we're in now, with the financial crisis, doesn't make the setback too big, not least for those countries that need to be lifted the most – that this doesn't go too far on them. We had a climate debate before today. And I am very pleased that the three former government parties – or the Bondevik parties – that I realized Heikki Holmås renamed them – are united on some clear challenges in the years to come, both in terms of the environment, and also in other areas, which show that there is an ideological community, and I stress it, between the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and which, in our opinion, constitutes an alternative that can very well take over the governance of this country when the time comes – and it comes. The three parties have focused on increasing investment in knowledge and infrastructure and improving the framework conditions for businesses to secure jobs and ensure well-being. And it's a paradox, since there were several people who took on higher education in this debate, that they have come so 'on the verge' in this period that they have in terms of research and higher education. It is a great paradox for me that the three parties that went so high on the track also in the previous perspective announcement have delivered so weakly in that area – an area that is just about to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of our nation. We also agree to improve the framework conditions for businesses. From the Christian People's Party it means that the tax relief we give priority to is precisely on the business side and to volunteering. We also agree on increasing investment in infrastructure. I was in the field of environmental policy. I don't have to repeat that. So it's very important for me and for the Christian People's Party to look at the consensus that the three parties have in securing a diverse society that respects the freedom of choice of families and the space for the voluntary sector. We often talk about a welfare state. That's half a truth. It's a welfare society we're talking about in Norway, and it has a sector that's incredibly important, that's the civil sector. Here, these three parties stand together to stress the importance of this sector, also in terms of the development of the welfare society in the future. As far as family policy is concerned, we have clear dividing lines. It also underlined the representative Holmås before me. After all, it is a paradox that, according to the last report, cash support, which he attacks so hard, actually works in a balanced way in economic policy towards the families. But that's not interesting anymore. It was supposed to be fun to spend a lot of time, but we'd rather make sure that the election results would give us more speaking time at the next crossroads. But, as I said, it's an alternative that emerges in this setting, and it's an alternative that we give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1653	In a note, the Right Christian People's Party and the Left say that the Bondevik II government used ‘nearly 9 out of 10 extra ‘oil crowns’ in increased room for action on investments in the future’. In comparison, the red-green government shall have used 20 pst. of the increased scope of action for forward-looking investments. It has been part of the Christian People's Party to say. I don't know where these numbers come from, but I'm assuming that these statements are based on an calculation made by the NHO, which has a number of weaknesses. A simpler and more correct comparison will be to look directly at how much the red-green government has allocated to infrastructure, education and research. Why doesn't one do that? Is it because the result then might have been something different than what you want, namely that today's government has granted more to these areas, which at least other numbrators have been able to show?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1660	Well, this government, when we look at the expenditures on the state budget, has had $200 billion more to go with. And then, of course, you can subtract some economic stabilizers and yet you're left with about 100 billion dollars more than what the previous government had at its end. In fact, it would just be missing if not all areas were to receive more or less increased appropriations. But the question is whether one has prioritised right within the increased opportunity to choose some areas in which one would specifically bet. Then it's my reverential claim to, for example, in the field of research and education, and not least higher education, the results are so weak that they have become a resting point throughout this period. Then we'll hope that it might be slightly fixed up when we get revised tomorrow. But so far, this has been an incredibly weak point for this government, a point on which it should really be put much more into, not least when we're talking about a perspective message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1667	The Christian People's Party reads the report of the Distribution Committee, which the hell reads the Bible. So that's how Hans Olav Syversen said that in the short term, cash support works as a transfer of money to families with children. But in the long term – they are very clear – it weakens the opportunities for children to go to kindergarten and to participate in kindergarten. And keeping children away from kindergarten is especially bad for the most vulnerable children. The way cash support works today, it is especially the parents of the most vulnerable children, those who have the greatest benefit from going to kindergarten, who choose the cash support to a greater extent than others. While all other groups of the population are falling into the use of cash support, among other things, have minority parents an increase in the use of cash support. Then my question is: doesn't the Christian People's Party see that the system that initially seems to be a completely right family policy system, now actually works especially negatively for the most vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1674	I must actually say that the form of stigmatisation that is embedded in the question from the representative Holmås regarding who chooses cash support, I will in no way sign. It is also not shared by one of SV's government partners – fortunately. In the case of cash support, it is an instrument for families with children to have more time together, and it is also a question of more justice. I can, of course, rhetorically ask back: Is it fair that high-income families should be subsidized by 150 000 kroner a year – which is actually the case in the case of kindergarten – or is there another use that it could have been relevant to discuss, among other things. to strengthen poor - able families? Our point is that the children who need help will get it, whether they're in a family that uses cash support, or whether they're in a family that chooses kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1681	Now I get the opportunity to answer that, that's great! The question asked by Hans Olav Syversen is, of course, a question of the very core of the welfare state. So it's like spending just as much money on people who have good advice, as on people who have bad advice, when we all give a free school offer – a free higher education offer, free high school, free elderly care, etc. I've never heard anyone from the Christian People's Party argue that this is something negative. On the contrary, I have seen the Christian People's Party as an ally in relation to just this. For those who are vulnerable: if we look at students with a minority background, they are more likely to fall out of high school, among others. because when they start high school they do not have enough Norwegian knowledge. Our money spent in Groruddalen to provide free core time is good. Getting kindergarten is good. Cash support's stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1692	I think I have a big task ahead of me if I were to convince the representative Holmås regarding the excellence of the cash support. My point about subsidisation was to show that here you choose to spend a lot of money on a well-being that we also agree with. Then you also have to consider the possibility that there are families who choose a different solution and that it may well be worth making a public contribution. We would like to have a debate on, for example: Child protection and kindergartens, for I am sure that the representative Holmås knows that there are almost no child protection issues reported from kindergartens, if that is what he was concerned about. My point is that no matter what are you in, vulnerable children should be helped. Whether they are in the family, whether they are to be helped through kindergarten or other child-restraint relief measures, is up to those who have access to it. But to turn the cash support into something that means that you are out of society and are at risk of becoming an outcast – I just don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1704	The Perspective Communication allows the Storting to discuss future challenges as a whole. Through an overview of the global situation of our country, we can discuss the question through this debate: What do we want with Norway? The main areas of society, social areas where it needs to be newly built or restored — in order to use the language of a practical carpenter. Internationally, we have three interplaying crises; the financial, climate and food crises, which, unfortunately, will no doubt lead to an increase in differences between economically rich and economically poor countries. During my stay at the United Nations major development conference in Doha, Qatar last December, I got the live demonstration. It will require more of Norway in international solidarity. These three interplaying international crises must lead to system changes in the way international institutions are organised and the advice they give to their national governments. I would like to highlight three areas: The position of the Stiglitz Commission, which is now to be dealt with in the bodies of the United Nations to provide the basis for a new financial regulation, is very important. Here, the financial sector needs to be addressed to the real economy, not the construction itself, which strong power environments have believed and worked towards the financial crisis. The work of the UN on climate change is very important. It is essential to move from storage energy to renewable energy, to saving storage energy. The UN Food Organisation, FAO, has strong recommendations for investing in and investing in food production. One must use the earth under different conditions, one must ensure fertility, one must invest, one must research, one must give income to those who work with soil and food. Norway is like a country and people in a privileged international situation when discussing the future situation of the country because we have a surplus on both the trade balance and the state budget — that is, freedom of action. For the Central Party, it is central to use the whole country, to decentralize power, labour and capital. A central part of the Norwegian tradition where political choices can create jealous relationships between people and districts is central to us – i.e., not equal relationships, but embarrassing relationships. We have important challenges related to hard-to-earth work for all those with a working capacity, either on a full-time or part-time basis. It is very central that one in these times has a special focus on those who have the ability to work part-time. We need to strengthen the focus on education – adapted to education, given the need for major reforms in primary school, with more practical education. Vocational, vocational, university and university education has been stimulated and must be further stimulated, for education is one of our most important investments. Infrastructure is the third area: it must be shrinked, we must reduce transport and we must save energy in transport. Digital rights for all are a key keyword so that, through supply-driven fibre deployment, we can ensure a broadband expansion that allows travel to work to be radically reduced. With regard to environmental challenges, which have been discussed in depth here today – from storage energy to renewable energy: it is the exhaust gas that is the problem, not natural digestion processes. Finally, challenges related to foreign policy: we must now avoid going from the Countess' free movement of people and capital to non-internationally regulated and balanced protectionism. A new mandate is needed in the Bretton Woods institutions. We must strengthen the role of the United Nations. It is central to a conversion of Norwegian business. At the same time as the changeover, we need to improve the opportunities for new self-employed workers, ensure the self-employed who are currently the founders of Norwegian business. We need to ensure the conversion of corner stone companies; we need to get longer value chains to further develop our natural resources. There is a central question that needs to be put on a broad front, whether it be oil, gas, fish or timber. Furthermore, the distribution of income is central to ensuring community unity. We need to ensure agility, balance power relationships between the buyer and the seller either in terms of goods and services or in terms of the labour market. We need to ensure taxes based on ability through enhanced efforts to cushion income through income taxes. We need to ensure welfare systems that are such that both employees and maritime operators can have the necessary security. It would be natural for a self-employed person to consider increased social security contributions in order to ensure better conditions. Finally, the Perspective Communication operates with welfare societies, welfare orders, welfare services, welfare model — all linked to the ability of the nation-state to secure it. The prerequisite for achieving that community is a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1740	The Communication states that Norway has reaped huge profits by participating in international trade, that increased international trade has been primarily an opportunity to get more back for its own efforts, and not a threat to employment and living standards, as the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party sometimes give the impression. I therefore think it is good that this is now accepted. Furthermore, high levels of labour participation and job and business creation are important for exploiting opportunities in the future in increasing globalisation. International studies show, however, that the competitiveness of Norwegian industry has deteriorated every year during this government, including the United Kingdom. because companies have to pay more in taxes. And now that the world has become more globalized, we're not going beyond global tax competition. We have repeatedly seen examples of individuals and companies moving from Norway because of high tax pressures. Even the whole state company Statkraft moved to Brussels a few months ago to save taxes. Why will Lundtigen not reduce the tax burden on Norwegian industry in order to improve competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1749	First to trade. The centre party is maritime for trade, but we're not swallowing everything about Ricardo's theories on labour value services. We can find a lot of lessons in Erik Reinert's book on why poor countries become poorer and richer countries become richer. A greater nuance is needed at that point. As far as business taxation is concerned, the Centre Party has a pragmatic view of it. We've shown that through a number of settings. We are totally dependent on having a level of corporate taxation in Norway that is such that we can ensure that our businesses can compete in the international markets that are, and we put that up through practical policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1756	Discussing the perspective message provides a rare opportunity to discuss the direction you want for society. I assume that the representative Lundtigen is involved in the policy because he wants to implement that direction and the things he believes. In that perspective, it must be difficult for the representative Lundtigen to be involved in the red-green project. It must be difficult for a central party representative to be involved in weakening property rights, weakening self-government and weakening the possibility of Freedom Norway to be free and diverse. The representative Lundtigen himself has said in the Chamber here that he does not want to participate in weakening the volunteer. The Central Party national meeting has also said that you do not want to participate in weakening your volunteer. What will the representative Lundtigen do to follow up the Central Party’s national meeting decision – to implement VAT exemptions for the voluntary sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1763	The center part is most comfortable as part of a red-green alliance. We find the greatest community there, as Norwegian policy now appears. We have achieved results in important areas for us. When it comes to the weakening of property rights, I have my experience in the past government, both with the law of the land and with coniferous forest protection, which was not very exemplary from the Right. In the case of voluntary activities, the Centre Party has a clear national decision in favour of a refund scheme for VAT paid to strengthen voluntary Norway. We're working on that, and we have the ambition to make a proposal over the current period, based on that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1772	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1775	This has been a debate that has been as much about polemics as about perspectives, to which this debate invites, namely to invite representatives at the end of a growing period to see — in a long perspective — the challenges facing the nation. I'll try to do that. I want to stop at the two major challenges that the message also draws up, and that we in the Left are concerned about. Because it is precisely the composition of our population, the demographic changes – the very large proportion of older people, the vast majority of people outside the labour market, with high demands for welfare benefits – which is one of the major challenges we need to find solutions to, and which I dare say neither the message nor we know how to meet. Maybe that's some of the most important thing. I would say that in this simplified, polemic time where it's about community or tax relief – and the Left is very too common, we need that in order to solve these welfare challenges that are coming – the community needs to be very much changed in order to be able to meet these challenges. I remember the Governor's statements at the hearing on the credit notification, especially last year, when he said that now the productivity growth in the public sector has stopped. And if it doesn't start again soon, at least we won't be able to take care of the community and solve the welfare challenges, with an increasingly older population. Therefore, in this setting, the Left calls for and points to the need for significant changes we need in the public sector – we need to organise the public sector differently, do more tasks locally. Local authorities need to grow to tackle more welfare tasks, not least in the care of the elderly and the health of the elderly, which are, of course, among the major challenges we face. That's the one. The second is that a society that has so many older people with so much need for welfare benefits is going to demand a business that is super-profitable, to pay for it. So we're going to combine a new, different, smarter and big public sector with a business that's going to pay these huge welfare costs we're facing. So we're talking about a super-profit business that's going to be able to pay this. The way to this super-wage business, I believe, is certainly the way to new technology, more knowledge and more research – it is the safest thing we can do today to ensure that we have a super-wage business to pay for the enormous welfare costs and meet the challenges we face. The second major challenge is the climate challenge. There is a lot to say about, but the important key for the Left in that context is that we need, with the perspectives we are now seeing, a transition to a greener economic policy, a greener tax regime - to praise the inputs in such a way that we get a greener society in every way. There's been a number game for many, many years here in the hall. It's also going to be an important issue for us in the future. We depend entirely on the economy to send the right price signals for the environment and the climate in the future. There are two good examples of that. One is that CO2 emissions must have a cost, and the world is fambling in the future. Norway was in the early stages, including: with CO2 charging on the base, which has been an important contribution to sending important price signals to this industry to reduce and work to eliminate CO2 emissions. Now we're going about an international quota system that's famous at first, but hopefully we'll get there that we get a real and high price of CO2 emissions that forces new technologies and new solutions. The second is renewable energy and the debate on e.g. Green certificates in Norway, which are about praising renewable energy in such a way that it is the one we are receiving and which provide it with competitiveness at the expense of non-pure energy. The last important thing for the climate challenges in this perspective is that this year we will succeed in implementing a Copenhagen conference and a new Kyoto period, which is capable of bringing us significant steps forward. The most important optimism and hope in this regard is that the great United States has been given a new leader, which there may be hope of bringing the United States into these international commitments, which will be absolutely crucial to solving these challenges. Whether high welfare, which requires high incomes, and a green economy can be combined, we need a business policy that is capable of providing us with a green business but is also super-profitable. It's a pretty demanding combination. It requires an enormous amount of new technology and knowledge that we don't have today. What can bind these big perspectives together is to put an enormous amount of effort into research and new knowledge. It's just what can solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1812	First, I would like to say that I share with the representative Sponheim's hope that the role of the United States in the fight for the environment will now be better than it has ever been. We must never let go of that hope. I guess it's never been as close as it is now, with Obama at the rudder. In the case of a completely different case, the Left, together with the Advance Party and the Right, has written in the statement that the total tax revenue has increased significantly over the last three to four years, although the tax level was reduced until 2005. From this point of view, the three batches conclude that taxiles function dynamically. For the sake of order, I would like to remind you that the period 2003-2007 was the strongest growth period since the 1960s. The world economy was in the midst of a boom, and cheap imports, among other things. from India and China, helped to keep inflation down. Interest rates were also low, and labour immigration was high. Has the representative Sponheim assessed whether the increased tax intake can be due to economic recession, or does he think this was a random coincidence? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1819	The President will remind you that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1822	The starting point and description of the representative Sund are quite correct. Important tax relief was provided under the previous government, not least for business. The investment fee was removed, a cost of NOK 6 billion. There's no doubt that there was a lot of investment in that period, investments that we can currently reap increased revenues from. The companies invested more as they dropped the investment fee of 10 pst. Investments yield returns, and the returns are now collected in the form of increased tax revenues. Then it is quite clear that there are other factors in addition to the increase in tax revenue – there is no doubt about it – low unemployment, there are many people to tax, and businesses are going with great profits. But the counter-question to this is: no one is able to demonstrate through this that there is no dynamism in fiscal policy that results in increased tax revenue. There's a lot of evidence that it is, but there's also other relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1829	‘I am not opening the door to my office to discuss a draft budget on which SV has been involved,’ said the representative Sponheim for a short time. Of course, in SV we respect the representative Sponheim's right to open the door to whoever he wants. But what I'm jumping over is that with this statement there is no justification for the rejection of SV. Maybe we can get it now. What about SV's influence on the budget that gives the representative Sponheim red, itchy extinction? Is it our pressure to get more measures to combat the climate crisis, SV's pressure to increase funding for climate change purposes? Is there SV's bet on kindergartens? Is there SV's fight for higher social benefits? SV's fight to combat poverty, a more social housing policy? Maybe there's SV's job to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of aided gross domestic product? Or is it SV's work for real redistribution? I would like to ask myself, on the basis of the statements of the representative Sponheim, that the Left does not share the SV's objectives in these questions. [[The President clubs.]] Or is it that Sponheim believes that SV's government participation weakens these items in the budget? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1837	The President once again allows himself to remember that the speaking time in the change of line is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1840	The answer I gave to the question of SV and today's government and budgetary cooperation was linked to the fact that these parties last time put to elections as a majority government. This time they go to elections and try to continue that majority, but with great probability — at least all gallupes with great margins on it — they will lose it. Should they be so “frequent” and only continue in minorities and believe that there will be a basis for a minority government to seek solutions towards the centre and opposition, with a party that is on the far left, with, at my discretion, ideological slag that is completely unacceptable – I refer to SV’s national meeting and view, for example. schools and, in general, their view of equalization – it is quite clear: SV is in government, at my discretion, because they are part of a majority who want them to be with them. The day it is no longer like this, SV must be out of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1845	I understand that Lars Sponheim is deeply concerned about the “challenge” – which I hope is what he means – me and my peers will be in the future when he spoke about the aging wave coming. I'd like to get Lars Sponheim to confirm that people in my age group are a challenge, not a problem. Because we don't want to go around and feel like a problem for the rest of society. But that it can be a challenge when we need help for care and care, I fully accept. Does Lars Sponheim agree with me – when we know that to have full health care coverage there are 12 000-14 000 sick homes missing – that now is actually a good opportunity for a dramatic escalation of the construction of new hospitals? It must be better for some construction workers to build new hospitals than to increase unemployment. Would Sponheim agree that here we might find a joint initiative to bring about a dramatic escalation of health home building, in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1850	I very much agree with Carl I. Hagen that the challenge facing the nation is that so many people get the joy and the opportunity to live for a long time – which we all hope for, and I think many of us are looking forward to enjoying their otium – and that as a nation in the national economy, we are facing a challenge to get all these older people a good life, both when they are healthy and when they need the help of society, this is a long way to go. In the view of the Left, there is a need for a welfare reform and a municipal reform that enables municipalities to grow bigger and stronger and to build many more hospitals. We believe there is a need for reinforced hospitals in the municipalities, with superiors and specialists in the diseases of the elderly, in order not to use the State's specialist health service. So yes, I agree, we need more hospitals. The left is in favour of any proposal that can help to strengthen the municipal sector and enable municipalities to make their lives right for the many older people who, fortunately, will live in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1857	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1860	Let me start where the representative Sponheim and the representative Hagen left off, with one of the challenges described in the perspective message. I fully agree with Carl I. Hagen that we are going to call it a challenge what the population composition in Norway is going to be like in 2060, that is, that we are going to experience a significant increase in older people in Norway. It may not be the number of older people over 67 that is the most interesting, but maybe the number of older people over 80, because we know that our need for services and social assistance is increasing as age increases. After all, we have all been concerned about discussing how pensions and pension rights affect the scope of action we have in the economy in the future. But what Carl I. Hagen invited at the end here, namely the discussion about services and the level of them, is also a significant challenge in how to build the welfare society in the future. Then there are different presentations in the perspective notification that are interesting. There is a rather significant difference between improving today's service standards for the elderly, or just continuing the standard in the future. The important choice we will then face, and which is a challenge to the opposition, is that if we want to improve the standard – more hospitals, more home workers, more people to make sure that the services of the elderly get better when they become more – there is no room for tax relief. Then we have to use every penny we have to make sure that we have a good public sector that can provide these services. What the perspective statement also shows is that at the time we left the assumptions for the forecasting, we had a certain space of action up to 2020 that could be temporarily used for tax relief or infrastructure investment, etc., but if we take from estimates now related to the situation in relation to the results of the financial crisis so far, that space of action is also considerably tightened. One of the important perspectives of the Perspective Communication is to underline the strength of the Nordic welfare model – the strength of jointly addressing tasks, the strength of having a widely publicly funded welfare sector. It is also important for productivity and value creation in a society, and it is very important to take care of it further. Anyone who wants more public welfare must choose it over tax havens. You don't get a bag and a bag here. A different perspective is the climate challenges. The estimates for climate emissions in the perspective notification are actually a little lower than when we made the climate notification. But it's still a huge challenge, and then we have to think in many ways. One is what Lars Sponheim has to say: the most effective way to deal with climate change is a comprehensive new international climate agreement. That's what can set a price on emissions. That's what can set a limit, so that we can distribute the emissions to the Earth's population. That is what can give us an opportunity to bring poor countries, if we also have good funding arrangements for those who have not contributed to climate change – those who live in poor countries but who are taking the greatest burdens. But we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. We also need to ensure that we have regulation when necessary, regulation to ensure that new markets are brought up, regulation that ensures that the new technological developments that now have to come have a primary focus on saving energy and finding more environmentally efficient solutions. Much of the market that the package of measures is now drawing up is just a market to achieve that kind of production and conversion. Within Enova, there are now many municipalities as well as many companies that are undergoing significant efficiency work on the energy front, and this helps to develop it further. Then there's research and development, where our government exceeds the efforts of the previous government in terms of research. The Bondevik government has invested SEK 2.2 billion more in research in the last year than in the first year. We have invested SEK 3.2 billion more in research in the last year than in the first year. But in this area, we must continue to have high ambitions, not only in terms of volume, but also in terms of the quality of the research that is. I fully agree that it must be linked to the development needs we have, in particular with regard to new renewable energy, because in this area Norway has a very great opportunity to use the knowledge we first had in the hydropower sector and then gained in the oil sector, which now needs to be transformed into new renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1880	Last week, the Statistical Centre provided figures showing that net immigration to Norway was at a record 67 000 in 2008, 5,000 more than in the previous record year, which was 2007. In the perspective Communication, the Government claims that immigration to Norway in the current year will be 40 000 people and will be halved, i.e. to 20 000 people, in 2020. It's both really crazy numbers and a completely unrealistic forecast for the future. The truth is that immigration will increase with current immigration policies. All reports show that the immigration population uses social benefits, social security, child protection, crisis centres, etc. to a far greater extent than others. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen insists that immigration to Norway in 2009 will be around 40,000 people, and that it will be halved to 20,000 people in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1889	This is a completely misunderstood way of reading the perspective message. The question of immigration is just one of the parameters used to assess the different estimates in the future. You have an estimate that's in the middle, which is what Tybring-Gjedde is starting from. Then you have one that's lower and one that's higher. This is because there is considerable uncertainty about immigration. It's hard to read about what this is going to look like in the future, also based on what's happening today. Not least in recent years, the high level of labour migration from new countries in the EEA area has shown that this is an area of very high uncertainty. What the perspective message shows, and which is emphasised there, is that in our society we have a significant benefit of labour immigration, because it comes from externally educated workers who contribute significantly to the creation of value in us. But then it turns out that it's a short-term economic effect, because as people from Poland or elsewhere settle down in Norway, they become more and more like us, and then most of us get more of the welfare state than what we contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1896	The President reminds us again of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1899	First of all, let me just say that the Minister of Finance's claim about the relationship between tax relief and welfare is a political rather than a professional claim. On the contrary, we find evidence in our close history, under the centre-right rule, that it is possible to combine tax relief with the strengthening of well-being, and that there is rather a link between good framework conditions around businesses, value creation and well-being. My question, however, relates to the question I asked to Heikki Holmås, which he obviously did not like, for he let alone answer it. In the comments, the majority, including SV, writes that an important prerequisite for the productivity growth we have had in Norway is the liberalisation of markets and good welfare arrangements. Is it true that SV believes what it says that liberalisation of markets has been an important prerequisite for productivity growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1907	I am not quite sure which markets or liberalisations it points to in that note. It's perfectly obvious that in a lot of ways it's doing things as efficiently as possible, including for us. But it is not like we have agreed on the new energy law or other liberalisations that have led to the relocation of power from elected assemblies and into the markets. What is very important to underline, and as right-wing people usually reject, is how incredibly important it is to have a well-functioning welfare state. I am very surprised by the comments from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, for example. how to assess the type of investment that contributes to growth in society and to include NHO analysis and make it their own, without even a source of reference. That, I think, is a very strange discussion about the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1914	I want to go back to the welfare challenge, the demographic composition, etc., which is a very important and crucial part of this perspective communication. Kristin Halvorsen has been Minister of Finance for almost four years. In a large part of that period, and I know that this was the case in the period before that, the growth in hospital costs has been one of the major problems to deal with for the Government in terms of looking ahead. In a few years the hospital costs have doubled, and they are now up to NOK 100 billion. Everyone has to see that it can't go on, but it's going to go on if you don't grab it. Therefore, the interaction reform announced is very important. I also think that you have to think more than that, that you have to make sure that the municipalities are able to carry out a larger part of the health challenges, especially for the elderly. I think it also provides a qualitatively better offer, because one gets a different kind of health challenges when one gets older. Then the challenges aren't the specialised things, but there are much more complex challenges. Do the Councils agree that we are facing some of the major challenges here? And is the Council of State alien so that changes in the municipal structure may be necessary to achieve this, as we have seen in, for example. Finland and Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1923	I fully agree with the representative Sponheim that one of the really big challenges facing us is to have patients treated in the right place, and that a very important part of the driving forces behind the costs of health care companies is that primary health care does not work well enough. And then I'm incredibly concerned about the prevention perspective, that's to get kids and young people to move and eat healthy. All of these things are far too low in focus in relation to the cost to society in the long term. With regard to how we are going to organise this turnaround operation locally, as the interaction reform really is, I have to say that the municipalities in which I have been in, which are coerced, are engaged in very little constructive discussions about municipal centres 10–20–30 years later. I think that's wasted on effort, resources and thinking power. I therefore believe that any changes to the municipal structure should be on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1930	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1933	I want to start my post by commenting on the line from the representative Carl I. Hagen. Because I was actually moved by hearing the representative ask for himself, that he should not be a burden on the future society when he retires. So it's the man who's been shooting at lone mothers! It's the man who peeled the lats out of Finnmark! It is the man who wants an immigrant account to see how much it costs to have immigrants in Norway! In fact, if we are now using the thinking of the Advancement Party, I do not know of one immigrant who has been a greater burden on Norwegian society than Carl I. Hagen. Even mulla crickets have to come out cheap in that account, if we put it up. So let me go over to what I was really going to say, but I felt the need to say this, because I think there must be limits to the gift of rudeness also in the Norwegian National Assembly. If we don't manage to create sustainable development in the future, the historical judgment will be harsh. The fight against war and hunger, the distribution of resources, climate change, soil and water are the most important challenges we face internationally. We solve them with other countries – or we don't solve them at all. But we can also do a lot of nationally. Historically, there has been a strong link between human activity, that is, production and consumption, on the one hand, and the pressures on the environment on the other. Earth's population is growing, and for large groups economic growth will be a prerequisite for a better life. The challenge of our time is how we can continue to create wealth growth while reducing the negative effects on the environment. In order to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees from pre-industrial levels, the reduction in global emissions must start by 2015 and emissions must be more than halved from the current level by 2050. This presupposes urgent action in all countries. Negotiations on a new international climate agreement will be concluded in Copenhagen in 2009. We want an ambitious agreement covering all countries and all sectors, which can enter into force in 2012. We want Norway to meet its international obligations. Projections based on current use show that emissions in 2020 are clearly higher than the targets set by the Storting. Further action in climate policy may therefore be needed. Strong and targeted public support for research and development of new climate technologies is necessary. A lot of the opposition parties write in their comments, it's easy to agree. All that Jan Tore Sanner said earlier today is also easy to agree with. I mean, for example. that the members of the Progress Party and the Right are right when writing that much more effort should be made to improve energy efficiency, as this results in the greatest environmental impact per year. krone invested. I notice otherwise that the opposition parties seem to have different solutions to the climate problem. While the Right Party and the Advance Party point to aid schemes and tax reliefs in the form of deductions and favourable depreciation rules, the Left wants more tax on environmentally hostile behaviour. Furthermore, the Progress Party and the Right are concerned that we should have a long-term strategy to develop our petroleum industry and stimulate oil companies to invest in Norway, while the Left is in favour of gradually reducing the extraction of oil and gas in favour of a stronger commitment to renewable energy. When we say that Norway has been an environmental driver for many years, it is a truth without reservation. In the last hundred years, in the Western world, and especially in Norway, we have had a staggering growth in consumption, and it cannot continue. I will nevertheless distance myself from those who claim that this is due to unilateral economic growth, because it does not. I remember, for example. well when forced renovation was introduced in my municipality. People used to throw the trash in the creek, or they burned it. Today we hardly see trash in nature. There was strong opposition to the introduction of forced renovation, but it created economic growth. The same applies to many cleaning requirements imposed on holdings. It turns out that when the requirements are set, a person usually comes up with systems to live with, yes, schemes that actually often lead to economic growth. What the government is now doing at Mongstad in terms of managing CO2 emissions also leads to economic growth. Politicians are therefore an important factor in driving social development. Therefore, this message is important. Here we warn that we want offensive environmental policies into the future, and in this context it is very important to relate to the reality we are in. The challenge is to have a forward-looking and renewable society. That it leads to economic growth is very fine. In a capitalist society, we believe in the Workers' Party that it is a reality we must relate to. At the same time, politicians are set to steer developments wherever we want. In the Workers' Party, we therefore distance ourselves from the Progress Party's position that it is just to move forward. If that party had been overthrown, I don't think it would have been forced renovation yet – with the consequences it would bring. The stance of the Progress Party on climate policy is also serious and, in our opinion, reactionary. It doesn't belong to the reality we're in internationally. Norway is an energy nation. We have many years ahead of us with the use and value creation of non-renewable resources. That is what we need to exploit to create a sustainable society. Today, for example, we are sending. gas equivalent to several hundred gas plants out of the country, without requirements for the cleaning of climate emissions. Nevertheless, it is actually good for the environment because it replaces alternative energy sources that are more polluting where they use the gas. But we have a duty to develop a sustainable energy industry. Especially Norway, which has been guided by non-renewable resources, has a responsibility to address climate challenges. That is why I am pleased that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party decided that we should be in the driving seat with regard to CO2 management of gas power plants – which is coming. The future gas power plant will be a power plant with CO2 management, but the challenge is simultaneously to prevent situations in which industry and private power customers are falling due to high electricity billing. We're technology optimists. It should all be because the option is that we can't handle the biggest environmental challenge we're facing. I can recommend it, too – because it gives hope for the future, increased realism in the political everyday life and overall a positive life. But the technology doesn't come of itself. Only through political action and a business life that is at stake will we do this. In the political world in which we live, it is quite right that four years ago the opposition parties gathered on this perspective message. I think it's a cross of thought now to see that those who wanted a different course, don't manage to gather better than what we see here today. That's something we take note of. I also look forward to the election campaign, where the results of our policy will be presented. Then the others get the idea that they will have longer working days, cut into the local economy and less into school and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1995	The President would point out that the term ‘greedy gift’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e1998	The previous speaker talked about the opposition not being able to gather. It probably doesn't do the position in very many areas either. Especially in the energy and environmental fields and in climate issues, we see that one thing is what one writes in the settings, and another thing is what one protests against in the lawn. That's why I don't take it very heavy. But in this debate, I lack more emphasis on what will become our important economic pathways in the future. When we look at the projections of the state's revenues and the perspectives that emerge there, one can only conclude that the Government actually assumes that an oil business should be opened up in the Lofoten and the West Sea too – unless a non-economic link is made. So much extra oil extraction is not possible for existing fields. I want to focus on the perspective of Norway as an energy nation. It's central to the Norwegian economy. It will also be central to meeting the CO2 cut and the CO2 targets that many have set here. I would also like to stress that President Obama, who causes most red-green politicians to become hot in their pants, is placing more emphasis on energy than he is on climate. He has three main areas – health, education and energy. By solving the energy problem, you can solve the climate problem. The global energy picture we have in front of us, as the IEA gives us, is that the US is dependent on energy imports, the EU is dependent on energy imports. How are they going to solve this? – Yes, by developing renewable energy, find more oil fields and by investing in nuclear energy. A German Minister of State for the Environment, who spoke at Lillestrøm last year, was asked if he would be involved in subsidising Norwegian sea wind power to meet Germany's needs for imported energy. He just laughed back and said that if Germany is going to spend money on subsidising a new industry, they're subsidizing the new German industry. That is something we must bear in mind when we discuss Norwegian energy policy. The Progress Party believes that we need to invest in the petroleum industry in the future, simply because the International Energy Agency says that even in a two-degree perspective, the consumption of gas will rise globally, the consumption of oil will be almost stable, and it is coal that has to be put to life. It is therefore important that we ensure the petroleum industry in Norway. Then there's a paradox of dimensions when SV, at the latest in the line change after Heikki Holmås' posts, talks about that oil in Norway is bad stuff, but as long as we can develop oil in other countries and ensure fair distribution, it's completely unproblematic in a climate perspective. It just shows the hypocrisy of the whole debate. The Progress Party will focus on renewable energy. All the games say they will. The problem is that aid schemes, framework conditions, predictability do not allow anyone to invest in this today. When one is going to put a perspective on the next 50 years, one has to make sure that those who are going to invest hundreds of millions of dollars, typically billions of dollars, know that the framework conditions we're talking about today are actually going to be fixed. In the last three years, the wind power industry has been dealing with three different support systems. That's not the way to trigger investment. The small power industry had 27 investments when the Bondevik II government went off – they had one completion last year. It shows that those who are now talking about the large renewable energy perspectives have the ability to stop all wind power in Norway, and they have suffocated the small-scale energy deployment in Norway. It does not promise good for future efforts in this area. The Progress Party will put a great deal of emphasis on research and development in environmentally friendly energy technologies. But there is no automatic way that research and development means economic growth, as the representative of Klungland almost assumed. That a person spends money on a CO2 development project in Mongstad doesn't mean an automatic earner makes money on it. The way in which you develop this project, and the results you get, is the criterion for success. If we in Mongstad do this as quickly as some in the government have wanted – that 2014 is more important than the content of the technology – we can be sure that then we lose money on it. Then we are developing a product that is capable of cleaning this point emission at best, but no country will buy the product. Then one has not created values, then one has lost values. At the same time, it is possible to do this in a profitable way, but let's make sure that engineers get the perspectives they need to develop a good product, not that politicians set time limits when they have to have something done. Minister for the Environment Solheim spoke so nicely that we have to put sea windmills in place as soon as possible. If we had started commercialization today, Erik Solheim's vision on a small scale would cost Norwegian taxpayers $2 billion a year in subsidies. That's not the way you create good energy projects in a long-term perspective. We must also ensure that energy benefits Norwegian industry so that it can further develop its environmentally friendly production methods. Then we have a perspective on the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2026	The perspective statement, on which we have spent some time today, gives many descriptions, but also they call facts about how Norway is likely to develop and look forward to the next 50 years. I think several have given good descriptions of reality: that one and perhaps the biggest challenge is the climate and environmental problems, which must be addressed nationally, but not least in the global arena. The second challenge that is described very clearly is the ageing population we will experience. There I must say that I agree with both Carl I. Hagen, for once, and other speakers, who say that we get an older population and that people get old, is a gift to Norway. It is a resource and not a problem, but it is also a major national challenge. As a young gentleman, I will still try to do my job and contribute to the national effort to provide more people who can take care of our elderly in the future. I believe that globalisation, which is also addressed in the perspective communication, is both good and desirable, but it is also very demanding. In many ways, globalisation and the climate and environmental crisis are a related community. We have to take responsibility for our local emissions and what we're dropping out of crap and other shit here in Norway. I don't know if 'third' in this context is unparliamentary, President, in that case I apologize, but I think it's going to work. The answer, no matter how we turn around and turn around, is a large, comprehensive climate agreement, where the first option is now in Copenhagen in December. When we have seen how an international globalised economy is going, which is now on the brink of bankruptcy because it has been free to play – the structures, regulations, control and governance have been built down over time, while globalisation has taken off – I do not think we are going to miss the fact that we also need to steer the globalised development in the direction we want, in order to achieve the climate and environmental obligations facing both Norway and the world. Because emissions in a globalised world, or the reduction of emissions in a country, are only likely to be moved to another place if the instruments are not in place. In addition, in a globalised world, we face challenges with high transport costs, which also push climate emissions. I believe that there is reason to say that the globalisation that is also described in the perspective communication has revolutionised the pattern of production and consumption worldwide. Western countries have in many ways moved their production capacity, their factories, to China and other low-cost countries that have entered world trade. With those factories also come the factory pipes and the emissions. The production we have traditionally had in the Western world is not shut down, rather on the contrary. It has moved elsewhere, often to parts of the world that are not covered by a climate agreement and that emit at least as much as before. I think, for example: the simple fact, I've often used that picture, that if you go to a construction trade today and buy slates to decorate the garden with – it's stone animals, or it's not stone animals anymore, but it's at least very heavy – it's now cheaper in Norway to buy Indian slates from an Indian quarry, which is transported half the world on a ship that is also not part of an international climate agreement, than it is to buy Norwegian slate. I'm not saying this because I'm busy limiting competition in the world, but I think it's a clear point that the climate cost of transporting e.g. Skies around the world are not part of the math when people are going to make up which type of products to choose. We have to put in place an international agreement that largely takes this into account. That is why we need to do our part in the perspective messages of the years that are coming – changing our consumption pattern, creating a greener growth, which will once again form the basis for paying for all the commitments we have towards future generations, and putting in place an international climate agreement. In conclusion, I just want to say that I agree with those who say that they are surprised that the opposition does not use this opportunity to raise a picture of what the real option of the red-green government will be after the fall elections. It must be that they call the facts clear to everyone who sits down and reads the perspective message. We are faced with a fundamental choice, even in the future – whether there are tax concessions, a permanent deterioration in the state's Community income in the tens of billions class, or whether we are going to spend the large resources on the important tasks in the community. I do not think we have received a clear answer here. I do not agree with those who believe that they will not be able to find together on the civil side – we have seen that before, and I think we will see it again. But I'm surprised it doesn't get any clearer here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2045	However, the President must point out that the term'murder and other shit' is not a parliamentary term. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Carl I. Hagen reinstated here the president's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2054	The President will point out that Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure states that: ‘For the President as a representative to take part in the debate on a matter, except for brief observations, it must be left to the other President or a Vice-President to direct the further consideration of the meeting on the matter in question.’ The President had a short line, and there is some doubt as to whether there is a brief remark or participation in the debate. But the President intends to hold the meeting until noon. 16, if there are no objections from the hall. – No objection has been raised, and it is then deemed to have been accepted. The President shall try to be impartial!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2064	The Perspective Communication describes the framework within which we are going to pursue policies in the future, how society should be governed further, and what kind of societal development we are going to have. Reading the message itself is very informative and something I would recommend to most people who are interested in politics and want to learn a little about the framework of a society that the Norwegian community should be governed by. I also believe that if one message were to be chosen during the four-year period that one should prioritize reading, it should be. It is also in itself a recommendation for all the representatives of big business to spend time on this very message, because it is very useful and provides a lot of knowledge for everyone. But in the debate, of course, there is a focus on challenges, because that is what politicians are set to do. There's a lot we agree on, all the parties point at and at that, but that's what we disagree about, and that's challenges, that set the tone. There may be challenges and problems — no matter what you may call them — that have arisen, either in the environment or in the care of the elderly and in the care of the elderly. But what's also very striking, as I don't think anyone has commented to any particular degree here, is that we're very lucky in this country. It's both that we happen to be born here, and that as politicians we actually have choices. Most of our colleagues in almost all other parliaments have little choice. They're struggling with very big problems, whether it's security, war, or peace. They have limited financial resources, they have a large, poor population that is uneducated and that they do not get into the creation of value, and they are struggling with major distribution problems. What is described in the perspective statement shows – although there may be difficult choices we have to make – at least that we have choices, unlike very many others. But we have to give priority, and it may be difficult to see, even in a country like Norway. The important thing is to secure income. That is, we create values, so that we have a safe and good well-being, that is. that we are able to distribute well. Regarding the comments that follow the perspective message, I think they are clearly less suitable for getting wise. That's what Sandal's representative has emanated in an excellent way. The opposition is cracking. There are many people who have pointed it out, but I have noticed that there is no one who has commented on it to any particular extent from the opposition. In important issues such as the environment and oil money use, there is a total crack. What we can only see from the position's point of view is that there are no signs of anything on the civil side. The voters will have difficulty trying to find out what is the option of the sitting government; it is clear and clear in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2078	First, a comment on the Minister of Finance's reply to my reply on immigration. She tried to trick herself away by saying that there were three scenarios for immigration. It was a high, a medium, and a low estimate. Then we can rather look at the high option, as the government says is unrealistic and is too high. So it says that immigration will suddenly turn around in the 2009 election year. All three scenarios say that. It says that immigration will not fall as quickly, but will fall to 35,000 in 2020 – a halve from today’s level of immigration. Completely unrealistic! And that's not just because it's immigration. It's about the costs of immigration, because that's what we're discussing here, the economic perspectives, the costs and choices you have in the years to come. This must then be described correctly and not sweep under the carpet, as it is done. And then to the representative Holmås: The representative Holmås and I were in a debate on distribution policy in News 18 a week ago. After all, his government and his majority are responsible for politics – not the opposition. And in this wonderful country to Heikki Holmås, this distribution country to Heikki Holmås, which is getting richer, there are 630,000 living on public transfers, and the number is increasing. In this country, a quarter of the students leave primary school without being able to read and write, and one third of the students fall out of high school before they finish – do not take exams. It is this country, this country of distribution and the welfare country of the representative Heikki Holmås, where the serious crime has never been as high as he stands here and boasts of. And then he tells the party of progress, which has never sat in government, how terrible it will be. What medicine is it then the representative Holmås wants? No country has become better, richer, or has grown by cutting the heads of the strong. It never helps the weak. It's never happened. The plan economy has never worked. Dramatic welfare transfer has never worked in any society. What you should do, instead of setting up a distribution committee, is set up a value creation committee, where you say, "How can we get innovation?" How can we help the good minds so that they can create jobs? How can we bring about innovation in business? It's important. It does not help taking money out of your right pocket and putting it into your left pocket and believing that you have created values. You have to lay the foundation for increasing the pie instead of dividing it into even more pieces. That is the starting point for the Advance Party. This is the starting point for a non-socialist policy, which is taxing and giving opportunities to create values. I asked the finance minister, in writing, if she could define fairly, because she's talking about fair distribution. And then she says, well, it's free school, it's access to health, etc. There's something all the parties agree on. The answer is what all the parties agree on: that's justice. You have to come up with something else if you're going to use it as slogans when all the games agree on what's going to be common to everyone. The council must come up with a better answer, instead of using the propaganda that she is doing in her reply to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2089	Listening to the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, one would think that he had not grown up in Norway and did not see that we have actually built a welfare society that, by being a country where we distribute fairly evenly, and where we spend the community's money, is able to create greater growth, greater wealth and greater development for everyone than we had done in, for example. Christian Tybring-Gjedde's dream country, USA. But I'm not going to spend time on Christian Tybring-Gjedde. I'm going to spend time on Lars Sponheim and Right, because I think of Left and Lars Sponheim as an important ally, along with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, in the work to stop oil extraction in the Lofoten and the West Pole. And then Lars Sponheim says it's those who are kind of the guarantor that there won't be any extraction of oil deposits in the Lofoten and the Vestral. But the whole premise of Lars Sponheim by putting that ultimatum to the Right, which has a clear national meeting decision, is that the Right has intended to surrender. Then I have to ask a question to Jan Tore Sanner: is it that some secret deal has been concluded? Or are there any other right-wing people in the room who could say that it's the right-wing decision to give up on this? When there is an alliance between the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is it then that one has decided to give up on this and says that we are cooperating with Lars Sponheim, we are aware that Lars Sponheim and Left have put ultimatum on this, and that we are entering into a partnership, means that we are going to give up? Has this point already been depreciated by the right in its application? As I know Right, they haven't done it. If Lars Sponheim is interested in ensuring that there is no extraction of oil in Lofoten and Vesterålen, Lars Sponheim should back up as far as possible under a red-green government cooperation, with a strong SV, which could be the very guarantor that there will be no oil drilling. We know that the Workers' Party will later decide what to do about the Lofoten and the Vestral. A progress party and a working party that may agree to oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Vestreålen will, of course, lead to the development of the area. So the question to Lars Sponheim and to the Right is just plain: is it that the Right and Left have already entered into an agreement that implies that from the Right you give yourself to this point in the program, or is it so that the Left actually sees that Lars Sponheim can confirm that the best thing for Lars Sponheim was that the Red-Green Government continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2100	What makes me take the floor is Christian Tybring-Gjedde's posts instead. I share with him his concern that there are too many people who are in disability in Norway, and that there are too many who are out of work. But the problem in other countries is that people don't have income, they're lukewarm, they live on less than one dollar a day, they don't get social security at all. Of course, we are concerned about those who fall out of high school — and also those who do not get enough out of the school we offer absolutely everyone in Norway. But again, in Norway, everyone is entitled to a good schooling. Universities and colleges are open, and you get your studies funded. So to poverty: the poverty that Christian Tybring-Gjedde is busy with is, of course, minimal in relation to what you see in other countries. In the U.S., which is drawn as a contrast, you reward the uninhibited ones who sit on top of the business world. Ordinary workers get a wage they can't live on, they don't have housing, more and more live in caravans, and how many children go hungry to bed. I think that is much more serious than the situation we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2109	I would like to respond to the challenge that the representative Holmås came to Jan Tore Sanner, or what he called "other Right-People in the Chamber". I assume that I represent the latter category. As far as our national meetings are concerned, we have a number of national meetings that do not correspond to all the policies of the Left, which are not in line with all the policies of the Advance Party, nor are they in line with all the policies of the Christian People's Party. I don't think any of the national meetings this spring are used to nail government platforms, but to mark their own policies. I see that this is also the case for the government parties. I think these are strange challenges you can hear from the representative Holmås – who comes from a party that has also in the government led one policy in Stortinget and another in the plenary. We have experience in solving major challenges in the previous government, also in relation to the Left and in relation to environmental policy. What has been going on in today’s discussion – which should focus on future perspectives – is that the representative Holmås has almost had a hysterical focus on perspectives, but only on the perspectives of what government we will have after the September elections. I think this case about the perspective statement should have had slightly different proportions than that. The left gets answers separately. We have, as I said, both in the Lofoten and the Vesterålen cases and in a number of other cases, strong national meetings which reflect the policy of the Right. And then, in a possible government cooperation, a government platform, we want to chisel out a policy that the parties in question agree on – in exactly the same way as the current government parties in their time did.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2122	The installation of the representative Holmås gives the opposite of a perspective, because when you look at the income expectations presented by the government in the big news, there is no doubt that a person will take income from the extraction of the oil in Lofoten and the Westphalia. But then one from SV argues that one shouldn't produce this oil, but the income gets one with it. The perspective that the representative Holmås really comes with is a complete mistrust of Norwegian technology environments. He only expects and concludes that no matter what happens in Norway over the next 50 years, one will not be able to find a technology that will enable one to extract Norwegian oil and gas in the Lofoten and the West Sea without raging Norwegian fisheries. I'm much more optimistic. Looking at a Norwegian oil business in the last 40 years, there has been a technological development of another world. You ask, what should be Norwegian Nokia? Then it's just to look at the Norwegian oil industry, one has a Nokia in the nth exponent. The Norwegian oil industry is the driver of technology development. I would rather have had a perspective where one says: Let's have strict environmental requirements for the Norwegian oil industry. It is not true that SV still claims that the Right and Advance Party will have anarchy on the oil side. We say there should be clear guidelines and clear requirements. But at the same time let us give a signal to the oil companies that if they can meet the environmental requirements, they will be allowed to extract the resources that are there. So you're going to have a perspective on exactly the Lofoten and the Vesterål, where one says that you're going to have to go up there to find out about horizontal drilling from land or from underwater installations further out, which means that there are no physical installations right where the fish is. Then had a perspective, because the perspectives are also about how to supply the world with energy in the future. There are no countries in the EU that come to Norway and say that now Norway has to cut its oil and gas production. All delegations coming to the Committee on Energy and the Environment have the first thing to do: how are we going to increase exports from Norway to Europe? They see that, even with the investment in renewable energy, the lack of energy in Europe will mean that one has to import 70 pst. of the gas consumption. It is not a question of a mere doubling of the investment in renewable energy compared to what is currently planned. They shall already double the installed renewable energy capacity over the next 12 years and are not sure that they will even manage it. So assuming they're going to be able to double beyond that is wishful thinking. When we hear North Energy going out and saying that they can try to get to a tunnel project where one drills under the seabed to look for oil or the oil companies that say they can drill horizontally three or four kilometers – yes, in 50 years we can assume that they will be able to do three or four miles, and thus one can exploit the oil and gas resources that lie there without even jeopardizing the area with a physical installation – then there are such perspectives that I would like to have seen from SV, not just the belief that one can realize alternative energy sources that replace everything that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2151	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2161	Today, the Storting examines the Government's proposal that the Stortinget empower the Ministry of Finance to provide State guarantees for loans from Norway's Bank to the Icelandic Central Bank, Seðlabanki Islands. We all know how dramatic the situation was on Iceland last fall. I chose the sea to travel to Iceland both before and after New Year to better understand the situation on the saga island. There I saw construction sites where the cranes stood still, experiencing both the arrogance of poor political leadership and great demonstrations of change. Meetings with representatives of both political organisations, academia and various business interests were a major event. On behalf of the Center Party, I spoke very positively at that time in Iceland to help Norway help its brothers on Iceland financially again. Iceland was later faced with an even greater political challenge through a dramatic government crisis. Their new government made this week estimates for the Icelandic economy: this year, a fall in GDP is predicted to be 10.6 p.m. Next year, a fall of 0.5 pst is expected. – something better than a previous zero estimate. Stabilisation of the economic situation is essential for starting down payments of Iceland's huge government debt, for people in work and not unemployed, and for young people in particular to find a future in Iceland and not emigrate. Iceland has concluded an agreement with the International Monetary Fund on a stabilisation programme for the Icelandic economy. The Government requests the authorisation of Stortinget to provide a State guarantee for a loan from Norges Bank to Séðlabanki Islands of 675 million. US Dollar. Based on the exchange rate on 9 March this year, this is approximately DKK 4.8 billion. Of the funding needs of the IMF, 2.9 out of 5 billion US dollars are to be covered by bilateral creditors. The finance departments of the Nordic nations Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway have said in the past that they will grant medium-term loans to Iceland in the order of USD 2.5 billion. The Nordic countries Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden have made the loan conditional on Iceland following the stabilisation programme agreed with the IMF. Among other things, this includes: Iceland complies with its international obligations. It is proposed that the terms and conditions of the loan should mainly follow the principles of the IMF's loan to Iceland. The administrative costs will mainly fall on the Bank of Norway as a lender, but the credit risk falls on the State as a guarantor. It is assumed that Norway’s Bank will pay a guarantee commission to the State of the Ministry of Finance, which is assumed to be sufficient to cover expected losses. The three largest banks in Iceland were put under administration in October 2008. The balance sheet of the financial sector then accounted for almost ten times GDP, a time series from 2003. During this period of growth, which was heavily based on sufficient and reasonable credit access from the rest of the world, Icelandic households increased their loans related to foreign currency. I would like to stress that households raising loans in foreign currency bear an additional uncertainty factor: exchange rate changes. The sharp deterioration in the Icelandic krona has resulted in a significant increase for households that took up loans in foreign currency. This has created very serious problems for both Icelandic households and businesses. Furthermore, the situation is that, under the agreement with the International Monetary Fund, Iceland is able to maintain some restrictions on the movement of capital towards the rest of the world until November 2009. I would like to stress that the Icelandic economy, with a particularly high interest rate – now at 13 p.m. currently above 11,5 pst. higher than Norwegian interest rates — combined with large short-term capital positions from abroad, depend on restrictions on capital movements to contribute to exchange rate stability and a lower interest rate. For Iceland, a lower interest rate is necessary to stimulate the Icelandic economy through monetary policy. The Stabilisation Programme has two main objectives: to restructure the banks placed under administration and to consolidate Iceland’s medium-term government finances. The Committee stresses that Norway is willing to provide support in other areas, such as expert assistance if such requests are made by Icelandic authorities. The position of the Financial Committee is unanimous on all points and it is recommended that the Ministry of Finance be given the requested powers. Finally, I just want to state that the Central Party is willing to contribute further if the Icelandic authorities request measures to stabilise the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic krona, whether such requests are addressed directly to the Nordic official team or directly to the Norwegian authorities. The central party also considers that the nation of Norway has been served by sea to initiate discussions on further Norwegian and Nordic contributions, rather than to passively await requests from Iceland or the IMF.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2191	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be over in two minutes. [[See page 3039]] The President will propose that this meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18 to deal with the remaining cases. First speech on case No. 5 will be Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2225	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2234	An overall committee considers it important to look at how best to help people who are exposed to violence and threats, in such a way that they feel safe. Norway currently has different levels of follow-up and protection for these individuals. The Committee considers that, as a starting point, measures should be used to provide adequate safety at the lowest possible level. In its efforts to increase the safety of victims of violence and threats, in particular in cases of violence in close relations, the Committee considers that reinforced instruments are needed. These instruments should be directed more towards restricting the freedom of movement of the threater, not the threat. Typically, this concerns the prohibition of visits and the use of electronic labelling – the reverse alarm of violence. These are measures that the Ministry of Justice is now actively working with. With regard to the proposal to lower the threshold for the granting of a fictitious identity, it is a majority who do not want it. Fictitious identity is very extensive for the person concerned. One must break completely with one’s previous life, and since Norway is a small country, moving abroad often involves moving abroad. Effective identity raises a number of issues. This safeguard measure is clearly the most effective form of protection, since it will no longer be traceable in public registers and will be ‘deleted’. However, in order for a notional identity as a protective measure to have the intended effect, it is necessary for the person to be protected to break any contact with previous life, circle and family. The majority of the committee sees it as demanding total to have to change their lives, and constantly thinking about not revealing their past lives to new friends and acquaintances. Where there are also children involved, it becomes extra challenging for those affected. Such a total change in the perception of life represents a significant intervention. Very few are prepared to bear such a burden and therefore the measure should only be applied in exceptional cases where all other protective measures have been found not to provide adequate protection. In many cases, the width of the measures that can be taken could be tailored as fully adequate protective measures. The majority believe that, in this context, the threshold for the use of fictional identity should generally not be lowered, but rather look at the other measures that can achieve the same level of protection for the victims of violence or threats. Figures from the Police Directorate show that from 2004 to today 16 applications for fictional identity, based on the Police Act Chapter IIa, are received from police departments. Of these, seven applications have been accepted, three have been withdrawn, and four have been rejected, while two applications have been rejected per year. is currently being treated. With regard to the proposal to set up a public body with specialists for the care of persons living at a hidden address and with a notional identity, a majority of the Committee considers that this proposal has been taken care of in the amendments proposed by the Ministry. A report commissioned by the Ministry of Justice in 2007 entitled ‘Shrinking the Personal Data of Endangered Persons’ shows that there are ‘ leaks’ in the address bar system. Information which was initially not to be available to anyone other than a very limited range, so-called code 6, has nevertheless been released to both public and private actors through the public register base. The extent of this is not known, but in any case this is a serious problem that weakens address barriers as protective measures. The report ‘To live at a blocked address’ was prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Justice. These two reports are followed up by actions in the Action Plan against violence in close relations, the ‘Return Point’. A central part of this follow-up involves transferring the decision-making authority for decisions on address barriers from the Central Office for People’s Registration to the police. It is neither appropriate nor desirable for the present system to continue where it is the Central Office for Public Registration which makes assessments of the threat picture addressed to a person and agrees or rejects the request for an address bar. Decision-making powers should be entrusted to the police, both because the issue of address barriers has to be considered in the context of other possible safeguards such as a visit ban, a violent alarm, etc., and because it is most appropriate for one authority to make an overall assessment of the measures to be taken. The third proposal is to review the methods used by the authorities to hide persons and to ensure that their protection is adequate. An overall committee sees that the transfer of decision-making powers to the police will contribute to the provision of police information and follow-up procedures, such as: in the case of the granting of a violent alarm, it may also be possible to enforce it by means of an address bar. I would like to stress that the Government has extended the time from when you have to apply again for protection, from one to three years. With regard to the fourth proposal to extend the witness protection programme to the Nordic context, a majority of the Committee considers that there is no pressing need for such an extension of the witness protection proposed by the proposal. Most of them are Size to attach Document No. 8:45 a.m. for the 2008-2009 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2270	This is an important matter that cannot be debated often enough. Although we had a very good and thorough debate during the interview from Odd Einar Dørum just a couple of weeks ago, some events show that this is a topic on which it is extremely important to focus. But it is important that not only is there debate going on, but we also need action. Media has highlighted the everyday life of people in Norway who are on the run and live in hiding. It's a everyday life that too many of us are completely unimaginable. We often believe, or live in that belief, that people who live in hiding and have address barriers and these measures around them are so hidden that no one finds them. "I love you and I find you anyway" is the title of a book. When we read that people go in the coverage and the media are able to find them in one day, it shows that there are huge holes in the system. They flee from ex-husbands and don't get fictional identity. These people we're talking about, live a life in constant fear of being discovered by those they're hiding from. There are considerable psychological burdens for those involved, including for children involved. When the majority argues against a lower fictitious identity threshold that it is so serious and so much interference in life, we must also bear in mind that these people who are applying for a fictitious identity have carefully thought through what this implies. It's a problem when only 7 out of 16 applicants have got a notional identity. Those who need it must get it. When you are forced to live in refuge and in hiding, you are not close to having a normal private life despite Norway being one of the freest countries in the world. There is no doubt that the offenders have better legal certainty than the victims. I would also like to point out that the crisis centre secretariat has complained to Norway for the UN Commission on Women. The attackers actually have it better than the victims do. It's important that we now start thinking about the victims. A great cross of thought in this matter is that those living in hiding often face major challenges in meeting public institutions. It appears that public representatives do not fully know how to treat people living in hiding and that their rights are therefore weakened. One of them says that life is actually a full-time job in itself. Once again, I want to say that this is important. We have to get this in place, so that those who need it and want it, get it protected they need. Finding one is one too much. A thorough review of how today's system works is an important step in the right direction. However, I am pleased that the government admits that today's system is not working well enough. The fact that the police are about to take over is one of the most important things that happen, but it is still important to get an evaluation of the work done by the police. Then I will refer to proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox To that the majority says that the government is notifying a new law on how the police are to maintain and manage their various registers. It is now a little over a month for the Storting to separate, and the Storting has not yet been given this law for treatment. It is important that a quality assurance system ensures these methods as soon as possible. That is why I would ask the majority to vote in favour of proposal No. 3 from the minority. I would then like to address the proposals that the Progress Party and the Progress Party and the Right Group have promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2293	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2296	I would like to thank the proposers for putting the search light on a very important and serious issue. Providing the security and security of people living under threats or violence must be a priority task for the welfare society. Unfortunately, many people in today's Norway experience a daily life marked by violence and threats. Women are particularly vulnerable within couples or after traumatic break-ups, where former partners act threateningly. Although there are not a large number of people in need of protection each year, it is all the more important for them that the protection measures function optimally. For the Right, it is central that the Protection Institute prepares society, provides maximum security and provides the basis for living a life without fear. On the right, it supports the review of the national protection programme proposed by the representatives of Horne and Ellingen. Without an in-depth knowledge of how the protection programme works today, neither as politicians nor the police who are going to implement and enforce the programme in practice can adapt the scheme to the needs that exist. However, the right considers that we should await the conclusion of such a review before concluding whether the threshold for the granting of a notional identity should be lowered. It is important to ensure the confidentiality of the identity of persons living at a hidden address and with a fictitious identity. The right-hand side sees arguments that speak for a collection of the country's competence in one body, or one public body. Many people living in hiding, regardless of organisation and division of tasks within the public sector, will have to deal with the police in several ways. It is the police who carry out the threat assessments that the protection is provided, it is the police who know the criminal environment or individuals the threats come from, and not least the police who will deal with any acute threats that may arise. Therefore, the right considers that there is an appropriate solution with a collection of tasks related to people living in hiding at the police. It is strange that the government parties do not agree with the proposed review of the methods used by the authorities to protect people living in hiding. It would have sent a powerful and long-lasting signal to all those living in hiding in Norway today, that a total surge had gone in for such a review. Today's crime is cross-border. It is not stopped by borders. It is therefore important that vulnerable persons can also be moved across national borders where this is deemed necessary for the safety of persons. In most cases, such measures will have a major impact on those who need to be moved. That instrument should therefore be limited to the situations in which all other measures have been assessed and tested and where they will not provide the necessary assurance. In conclusion, this is an area of concern which will always be a high priority on the Right's part, because it is essential for those in need of protection and a prerequisite for the police and the judiciary to pursue serious crime. On behalf of the Right, I take up proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2317	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2320	It's right, as many people have pointed out, that we had an interpellation debate that I chose to open. It was a fair and proper debate, but here we are dealing with concrete proposals. I almost feel committed to the series of «Yes Minister» and Sir Humphrey when I read proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I actually thought – in all modesty – that as Minister of Justice, I had asked for a Nordic witness protection program. I have been in the faith of this day that we have done so. I note by reading the text that there is a working group set up to assess how this should be done. To mark against the Sir Humphrey who is responsible for this, I am voting in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I have to admit that you have to build on, including in a management system, that trust is valid until the opposite is proven. It is not that one should almost jump around like an operational outsider to check if all the things happen. I'm deeply amazed at what it says. I have attended so many conferences on organized crime that I actually thought the Nordic programme was in place. Yes, even more, I thought that we actually had a European program in place, because we know that there may be unfortunate events, and we have no guarantee – knock in this big talking chair – that we don't get the siblings to the nokas case coming up. We don't know. We can be glad it hasn't happened that far. We can hope that everything we can do does not happen — but that happened in Norway. And we've had a copy of that event later, for example. in Gothenburg not long ago — simply a copy of the entire scheme — where almost all the instruments used in Stavanger were used in April 2004. I know that in many ways the Council of State really answered me in the interview, but I think it's right to review the government's methods of hiding people. Something is happening well when the police are going to have a responsibility, as others have, but I have met too many citizens who have approached me like a Nicodemus at night, to say it that way. They shall respect their anonymity, but it indicates that the system is not functioning properly. So we manage, as I said in the interpellation debate, to create closed systems to protect our intelligence agents – at least I get to assume that we are doing it, because I have not received any signal that we are not doing it. We were told in the interview debate, and also here, that there are seven people in everything who have come into fictitious identity. And the police say dry: there are no leaks. No well, but then we have to be able to create systems on the data page that are such that those under code 6 won't be allowed to walk with the folder saying from one to the other. There are too many who have done so, and I mark my point of view by voting in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I understand why the Progress Party has promoted proposal No. 3, but I don't agree. I think the threshold for getting a fictional identity is going to be strict, but I think there might be reason to get a proper review. That is why I am voting in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Right, because in this case it was such that the press had to work hard to get out information. Finally, it was the Council of State – he is to be commended for it – that cut through and made sure that we knew how many are covered by it. But before that, we had the black situation – the Ministry of Justice said that this is available, the Police Directorate did not think it was available, and finally the Council of State expressed itself so clearly that it became available. We can't have a management system that in some areas believes that politicians are rushing and going, while the administration remains. We just can't have it like this. And I think it's good that the State Council of the Great Mountains did what he did, but it's deep wonder that for a long time you couldn't tell the number of people who have a witness protection program. I understand very well in many ways that you should not tell me who it is, but there is something about the case that has later said to me, and I have to admit that what made me laugh was what I read about the Nordic Witness Protection Programme. I've been very concerned about it. I've been sitting in Nordic Justice Ministers' meetings. I've been a State Council in the Ministry of Justice for a few years, and I've been sitting in European meetings. Then I read a committee position – and as a Norwegian citizen, I don't do research on things that happen in the administration, I'm afraid that Stortinget gets the knowledge you want. This became a little different post than I thought it would be when I came to the hall and took up the papers and read them. But it became just as sincere as I have now said it. I think it's sad and anxious to notice that there's actually someone working on it that I thought I'd been in for quite a few years. Then I have said what proposals I am voting for on behalf of the Left: these are the proposals that the Progress Party and the Right have in common, and that is the last proposal, from the Right alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2339	As was also expressed in the inter-pell debate on this topic not long ago, I believe there is a cross-political consensus on the importance of these measures. And the fact that you're separating layers from how you're dealing with the proposals doesn't mean to anyone, I think, that you have a different view of the importance of these measures. But there are a few of the areas I want to comment on. First of all, a job has been done to look at how these instruments work, and there is a work being done in relation to how you think you should organise this. It is explained in the setting, for example. the transfer of decision-making powers to the police. This does not mean that an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures has stopped. I rather believe on the contrary that the ongoing assessment to be made, among other things. in the Directorate of Police, but also in the Ministry of Justice, is becoming more important when you move decision-making powers to actually follow up and see that this works well. Now, when you don't vote for these proposals, that doesn't mean you're not observant about the issues that are. I see it rather on the contrary, so that there is a process here in relation to the important measures that you actually want to have the most impact. So a little bit to the question of lowering the threshold to use such serious and invasive instruments. We have stated from the Government that we do not want to do so, and that is one and only because we believe that the threshold you have today is the right one, and the main challenge for us is that the instruments – within this threshold and when you use such tough instruments as fictional identity – actually have the effect that it works. It is where the challenge lies, in our opinion, and it is, as is also apparent from the position, rather so intrusive, rather serious, to implement these kinds of instruments, and it would not serve the victims if the political pressure became such that the only thing that was kind of rewarding to women and men who are struggling and who need protection was to lower the threshold for using such powerful instruments. In fact, I believe that you might quickly discharge yourself from liability in relation to all the other types of instruments we can use, and you should use them, which we need to have a political focus on. It's about the reverse alarm of violence. This applies to ordinary violence alarms, but it also applies to all other types of measures that contribute to reducing tensions, reducing temperature in small and large cases, and helping to mitigate conflict instead of increasing conflict. I believe that much of the political challenge is actually there. Once the government has chosen to do what it has done with the victim approach, not only in criminal proceedings, but also outside criminal proceedings, it is for the purpose of contributing to the mitigation of conflict. Finally, I would like to comment on the issue of publicity, since the representative Dørum drew it up now. I also did so during the interpellation debate. It is the government's position that it is very important in this type of field to show publicly, that one has a method that can be applied. That was one of the main reasons why I thought you should show this publicly. But it's not that in all these cases you can go far from the public. Of course, when you get a request from the press about where this is happening, who is subject to it, etc., you always have to carefully consider whether you are violating the security that these measures are actually meant to provide. We have published that since 2004, 16 applications for fictional identity have been processed by the police and Kripos. Seven is accepted. Four are rejected, two are under treatment, and three are withdrawn. It is useful to have information for the political debate, primarily in relation to where the level is and how advanced this is, that some of them are rejected, and that there is a method here that should be able to deal with when the scale is so small. We are optimistic about being able to make this work better, including. in the case of relocating decision-making authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2355	The setting reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee also suggests that the Ministry of Justice will present during the spring a new law on how the police are to handle their various registers. [[...]] This includes access to traceability in the registers. This will also limit who in the establishment has access to which registers.’;» The Party considers that the victims granted some form of protection require quality assurance as soon as possible. The Council of State just said in its statement that he is ‘observant to the problem’. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State review the methods of those who have hidden their address and ensure that their protection is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2366	I believe that the work done in the working group and in proposals for action, and the work we are going to do, demands that we always have great political vigilance with these methods. In this way, there are few cases where we face a need for analysis. We will, of course, evaluate the means through this work at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2371	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3039]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2389	A unanimous committee agrees with the proposal that the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism be ratified, but the Committee will draw particular attention to the need for countries to criminalise public calls for terrorist acts. The Committee is of the opinion that caution should be exercised so that some countries do not apply this law to politically guided freedom of expression. Care should be taken to ensure both freedom of expression and human rights, so that ratification is not abused in favour of political or religious governance. A minority of the Progress Party will draw attention to the fact that what may be problematic is the criminalisation of calls, recruitment and training for terrorism. Special calls may be problematic in relation to freedom of expression or human rights. Here, grey zones and controversial issues can easily arise in relation to the border between legal and illegal political agitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2398	There was a brief and thorough review from the case-speaker. The only thing I want to point out is that there has been very little in this debate that the government in this case has warned that work has been started on an action plan to prevent violent extremism. The aim of the plan is to ensure a more holistic basis for the coordination of society’s actions to combat extremism, while at the same time ensuring democracy, legal certainty and an inclusive society. The action plan shall be based on three key processes. There is dialogue with the minority environment, knowledge raising and cross-ministerial coordination. This important action plan comes in the spring. Finally, I would like to refer to the letter of 5 May from Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who points out that there are some minor errors and omissions in the Norwegian translation. This is of limited significance and does not result in any substantive changes in the proposition, but I ask that that letter and corrections be attached to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2409	As requested, the documents will be attached to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2412	Since it's at the bottom of my big life, and since I've spent some of my time making laws against terrorism, I took the floor now to say that I think it's a pleasure that the committee is so sharp and so clear, and especially that the Progress Party has highlighted what they've done; that it's dangerous to create a general law that can actually involve legal political action. I remember that there are countries that have legislation that are so that if you buy a textbook in chemistry, it can be assumed to be a preparatory action for terror. It is not common for me to buy a textbook in chemistry itself to lead to a terrorist act. But with such legislation, one approaches a legal principle that I have previously described as using a trawl bag instead of a harpoon. What the committee has done here now, is stick to the harpoon, and I think that's good. I was happily stimulated and surprised by the special remark of the Progress Party. I think it's okay to say from when something is well expressed. So I would like to say that there is something – at least in this country, and I think it concerns the whole of Europe – that can prevent terrorism, so it is to ensure that all citizens feel included in society, with rights and obligations. It made sense to me in the autumn of 2004 when, under the direction of the Ministry of Justice, we had a meeting with a Dutch policeman who had previously worked with intelligence. It was after the killing of the filmmaker van Gogh. The killer had originally been a pattern-integrated person. Then he had suddenly turned and become an extremist. The policeman started by saying that there are two measures that need to be taken to stop this. It's intelligent integration policy, and that's good intelligence. In fact, in the European context, I have met more policemen than ministers of justice and home affairs who speak like that. It seems to me to be a reflection, because those who are close to everything and know what responsibility they have are also so practical that they realize that it is best to have as many friends as possible and not as many enemies as possible. So an intelligent integration policy – and I have no idea other than trying to run it in Norway – is absolutely crucial. I'd like to stress that over and over again, because that means that most people want a relationship with something. It is my experience that very many people in Norway with a migrant background — I know the Norwegian-Pakistan environment in particular — are genuinely happy in Norway. We should be happy about that, because that means that we also have many who are going to be our friends when it comes to protecting the country in tough times. It is really about an expression that the President himself has used in a context, that we should draw a distinction between the extremists who resort to violence and the large, broad majority of responsible citizens who believe that the rule of law should be protected and its values. I felt the need to say it this way, especially because I think the Justice Committee has made an important mark. It happens that international bodies – and I've been sitting in some of them – take in so wide that it's not as thoughtful as it should be. Let it also be of concern to those who believe that incorporating any international convention into Norwegian law is always the most progressive one can do. In fact, Norwegian legislation with thorough preprocessors and with a good, thought-out legal text is better governed than taking any convention itself, which can often be a bad political compromise. I don't have any comments about this convention, but I want to say it that way, because I'm happy in this house, happy in this big bang and trust in the healthful beauty of elected bodies. I want to express it so strongly and so in principle, because it's probably one of the last things where I'm going to express myself on this particular topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2425	I just need to take the word for the clarifications that come from the committee, and stress that I think this is a common and broad consensus. This concerns in particular the question of the preparatory actions. In the context of new criminal law, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom, it has just been stressed that it is important that we are detained in criminalising preparatory actions. What is now being done in relation to this convention is not going to make sense. I was about to say: rather on the contrary. When it comes to criminalising preparatory actions and, in particular, preparatory actions towards opinions, i.e. calls, I believe that the Committee is quite right in its position and that it is a very important signal, not only in this debate, but in future legislation. It is only in those cases where the potential for damage is particularly high that there is an exceptional and good basis to move towards criminalising the preparatory actions that have been seen, based on the legislation we have, and the proposal for terrorist legislation that is now in place. So I would say that what is an advantage of these legal instruments that we see being sketched through conventions, but which are also well caught up in Norwegian law through the proposals of the previous government, but also the current government proposal, is that they rest very heavily on court trials, both in terms of the criminal trail, and also in terms of the method track. It's very important. At the same time, it is said that if we are to prevent effectively, as the representative of Dørum was involved in his speech, we are totally dependent on thinking about policies other than those we can read out of criminal law and conventions. There is always a basis for pointing out, for sometimes you can get a sense that this type of criminal activity is being combated by criminal proceedings. First of all, it's probably primarily in completely different venues that we achieve great effect in preventing this type of serious criminal activity, in line with other types of illegality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2432	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3040]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2440	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2448	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for the Environment and Development at the Storting meeting on 12 May 2009 on climate policy be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2455	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2479	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2513	During the debate, Mr Sanner put forward two proposals on behalf of the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2568	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification As far as the President is concerned, it was the proposal No. 1, 2 and 5 left will give its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2583	That's right, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2588	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2611	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a review of the national protection programme for the granting of a notional identity.’; The Progress Party has warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly, and the Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2627	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-14.ana.ud1827e2688	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
