ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e45	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State of Liv Signe Navarsete, Trond Giske and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, which will be asked by Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e54	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Industry. We have seen through a number of headlines that there will be significant challenges in the years to come, especially in the yard industry. We have also seen that the Minister of Economic Affairs has gone from place to place in order to gain more knowledge about this topic – yes, we have seen that it has also gone a little fast, and on the right routes, to get enough knowledge. My question to the Council of State today is linked to being able to cooperate across the different departments to try to arrive at an action plan. Because it is obvious that, in particular, in the field of paint industry, there is a rapid entry into the areas of several government councils. We know that within the yards is per. Today approx. 80 pst. of the agreements in the oil and gas sector. That is, you immediately enter the area into the Minister of Oil and Energy. We also know that the tax egi in relation to the base affects the rate of investment, also in the case of state-of-the-art city ships, plumbing, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: Will the Council of State take the initiative that he himself, the Minister of Industry, and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Oil and Energy, will sit down to draw up a joint action plan on how to get out of the potential crisis we can see in the yard industry, relatively quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e65	Let me first say that it's exactly in such situations it's important to have a firm hand on the steering wheel, when it goes fast. So the question to the representative Nesvik is quite timely. Because it is important for us to understand that while many companies now feel that they are on their way out of the crisis, some sectors have actually had very good years in 2008 and 2009, but are now on their way into it. In some ship-contracting areas, global demand has fallen by over 90 p.p., and it goes without saying that this is a situation that Norwegian shipyards and Norwegian supplier industries also notice quite brutally. It's hard for the public to replace markets that are gone, we can't do that. So a certain slowdown in the market, also in the shipyard and supplier industries, we will get. It's also quite natural after a very high economic cycle. But we need to do what we can to preserve the environments of competence, to contribute to conversion, to make sure that the Norwegian export industry is competitive when the economic cycle turns upside down. It may be the use of the large funds available in the 2010 State budget, both in the field of transport, defence investment, in the field of industrial policy and in the context of the Guarantee Facility, to provide a good framework for this industry. So we're going to work continuously to facilitate these businesses. I also allow myself, President, if I am allowed – the representative Nesvik has orange tie today – to congratulate on the cup final that was on Sunday. I guess the color of the tie isn't random, there's reason to celebrate in Ålesund!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e76	Of course, major occasions must be celebrated – and over time. I have a follow-up question to the Council of State. Today’s Business Today, we can read that Statoil is already warning that the search activity on the base and the investments there will fall. We know that in the long term this could also directly affect what is involved with shipping companies, but also the paint industry. We've also seen some other signals on some dark clouds in the horizon connected to the yards. I would like to ask whether the Council of State will take an initiative in the Government, together with the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Finance, to assess the following two measures: one is when new concessions are granted and these concessions are not applied, if these can be returned to the State more quickly to be re-distributed, and the other is possible tax changes on tail production.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e85	Now I'm going to leave to the Minister of Oil and Energy to comment on the concession regime, but the demand from the oil and gas sector and new developments are an important factor. We have also seen there that there have been high prices, that there has been a boom, and there is also a slowdown. But there are fields and areas that are ready for expansion, and I hope that Statoil also sees that it is now possible to get good prices, that the operators out there see that in a low economy it may be reasonable to make orders, to make new orders in the Norwegian shipyard and supplier industries. I hope that can be one of the solutions, because much of the business is obviously linked to offshore activity in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e90	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e93	The situation in the yard industry is, as we all understand, almost catastrophic when we look just a little bit into the future. The order books are almost empty. Then, after the view of the Progress Party, rapid and effective decisions are needed. This is probably the biggest matter of the state council and the government has ahead of it in a short time. When one knows that the construction of a normal ship can employ up to 500 people for a long time, as well as all the positive ring effects, everyone understands how serious this situation is. Can the Council of State specify some measures, as well as promise that he and the Government will look at all possibilities, so that Norway will again be competitive in relation to other countries’ shipyards, for example by: to organise taxes and taxes, to look at laws and regulations, and other measures to make us more competitive in relation to the shipyards of other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e98	Let me say that the most important thing is to make sure that we have an overall economic policy, where one understands that even though Norway may now be going out of crisis macro-economically and will definitely be doing the best throughout Europe through the financial crisis, some sectors have global markets that have fallen heavily, that are struggling, and that are going to get it tough in the future. The paradox here is that this industry is still going very well, but from the summer of 2010 the order books in half of the yards in Norway are empty. And should Norwegian shipyards be able to compete for the contracts that actually exist, it is required, among other things. that we ensure that we use oil money in such a way as to ensure that the budget is set up in such a way that we maintain competitiveness. In addition, I have asked GIEK, Innovation Norway and Export Finance to look at their arrangements and whether they are flexible enough. And then we must also appeal to the private financial institutions to continue to see that profitable projects in this industry must also receive private funding. These are important measures to achieve targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e105	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e109	Let me first congratulate the new Minister of Industry on his new job and wish him good luck. I think he's going to need it in the time we go into. When he travels around, I see from the newspapers that there is funding that is much of the main issue for the yard industry – that is what we are now discussing. In the next year’s budget, the Government has significantly deregulated some loan schemes within Innovation Norway. It concerns the global innovation loan scheme and also the low-risk loans. These are loan schemes that can be used and could have been used even more and earmarked for the shipbuilding industry. What is the reason why the Minister of Industry thinks it is right to lower these limits when we see that the crisis is a fact now in the real economy and out in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e116	I don't recognize this picture. On the contrary, I would say that in 2010, the state budget has a rather generous framework for these arrangements. And the report back from the industry is not that it is the public schemes that are the problem today; the problem is to raise private capital. After all, the system is built up so that GIEK can enter e.g. and give guarantees, but we have to have a private financier, because it's those who kind of do the quality check on the profitability of the projects. The financial crisis may be over, but there is some caution – perhaps making stricter demands than in the past on the safety of the projects – it is probably a problem that this industry is now noticing. That is why we have also asked GIEK and Export Finance to look at the flexibility of the regulatory framework, to see if there are things we should change to ensure that Norwegian businesses have equivalent conditions of competition with others, and we have to make the best possible arrangements with the public schemes we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e121	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e124	As mentioned several times here today, the yard industry has major challenges. Both 2010 and 2011 will be difficult years if new orders do not arrive. And several thousand jobs can disappear before the rise comes. The Norwegian maritime cluster risks being permanently weakened as a result. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must be willing to look at a wide range of measures to ensure that this does not happen. In a letter dated 10 November, the Association of Fishermen, in particular: to the Business Committee and the Ministry, asked for loans and project support through Innovation Norway to ensure the contracting of fishing boats. This is a win-win situation: the fishing fleet is upgraded and the yards are helped in a demanding situation. Will the Council of State support any of these proposals in the context of the Government’s response to the yard crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e131	We will listen to all the proposals, and if the good, constructive proposal from the opposition comes, then it is clear that we must take a stand on them. But I believe that there are already great opportunities in the budget proposed by the Government to contribute to this industry. But we need to be aware that when global markets have fallen by 90 p.m., there will also be lower activity in Norwegian yards and Norwegian suppliers. I think the industry is very aware of that. There is little sense in building ships on which there is great overcapacity. We have to change, we have to prepare for the markets that are coming, and be innovative. And then we have to keep the environments of competence straight. I think it's great that we in the Chamber today clearly have a much broader consensus that these public schemes are good, that we need a public commitment. It is not always the attitude of the broad opposition to industrial policy. But it is precisely in times of crisis that we see that the model we have in Norway, the measures and the institutions we have are absolutely necessary to achieve the most important goal – work for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e138	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e141	It's nice if the new Minister of Industry keeps standing up here, I can ask him my question. I see from today's Business and other newspapers that he was in South Africa yesterday. The sunshine story he participated in down there is interesting. It's because private capital has come in and saved a company. It's private capital for which the government generally only allowed stumbling blocks in the way of the entire preceding period. Therefore, it is interesting that the Minister of Economic Affairs addresses this with private capital in his first reply today. On the right, the Minister of Industry will challenge a number of business policy issues. Today, I am going to send a letter to the ministry that is about to increase competitiveness, look at the conditions of private capital in relation to economic policy and fiscal policy, make it easier to establish and not least operate businesses further, and have the strength to resist when times get harder. There is no doubt that wage growth has been too high and that competitiveness has been weakened over time. In addition, when we look at increased taxes on business and the krona, it is clear that there are problems around. What is my question, and it really comes from what happened down in the South, which the Council of State praised without the State having any role to that extent, is: Will the new Minister of Economic Affairs take an example of it, when he sees what private capital can do, and facilitates better conditions for such solar history to repeat itself, by improving tax conditions on private capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e152	Now I believe that Norway has managed very well through what is a capital crisis, a financial crisis – that's where it started, namely, that big financial institutions went out of business because they had a lot of bad loans. I think it is wonderful that Nordic Capital has entered the yard that has orders in these companies in the South. But I don't think it's irrelevant that GIEK set up, that we cooperated and got to a solution where they guarantee for large sums, so that this becomes a safer investment, safer projects. It is this interaction between the private and the public that this government stands for – to facilitate a good business life, for private investors, but with framework conditions in which the public also participates. If this means that the Right also agrees with that model, the main device, then I think we will get very far in a good cooperation to develop Norwegian business. So it could be that we disagree about parts of the taxation, or the tax system. We're just going to keep doing that. However, there is no need to hide that Norway is a good country to run businesses, that Norway has been growing more strongly in recent years than for example. The EU average and the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises in a global market. Then we must be careful – now that we are on our way out of the crisis – that we do not get new cost growth and that one does not get a weakened competitiveness, or that the price of the krone is so high that Norwegian companies are pushed out of the markets. It is more about a solidarity wage policy, a new option of solidarity, but it is also about solidarity between leaders, and also taking responsibility at the top, so that not only do ordinary workers bear this responsibility. If we agree on that too, then I think the Right and the Government will have very good cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e159	The answer is marked by the fact that the Council of State continues to be a spectator. I want to ask him about a special case, because innovation and research are important in this context. Last Friday, the Council of State gave the research institutions a lot of fuss in the evening post because they complained about the allocations to the so-called User-Controlled Innovation Arena. They had actually only related to what was in the crisis package, to spending 50 million. kr extra, and it takes time to plan research. In its relationship with and dialogue with the research communities, will the Council of State put in a different tone than to blame them for poor budgetary discipline and poor knowledge? Will he enter into a constructive dialogue, given that this can also help us out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e166	I see research, innovation and development as the most important way to get through this crisis. It is because Norway is at the forefront of new technology that we are able to be a country with high pay levels, high living standards, high costs and at the same time be competitive. Therefore, the 2010 state budget is also the largest ever in research. For this reason, research appropriations increased much more strongly from 2005 to 2010 than they did between 2001 and 2005, when the Right was responsible for research policy. That is why we want to stimulate private research, for example. through the TAX FUNN scheme. We're on the OECD average in public research. We are lower when it comes to private research, among other things. Because of our business structure, we have business themes that are not so research-intensive. But we have to bring the private into offensive research collaboration with the public in order to be able to be competitive if we are to maintain our standard of living. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e173	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e177	It is refreshing with a new Council of State – it is probably the fourth Council of State in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Gisk has an analysis that we share far on the road in terms of the challenges for the competitive sector. I noticed that Giske was out in today's business a while ago and said, "We can't go on like this." Then he referred to the expenditure growth in the budgets. My question is, what is the Giske's opinion that can't go on? Is this the weakening of competitiveness for which the red-green government must bear a co-responsibility over four years? Are there the increased taxes that businesses have had to endure for four years? Or is it the increase in expenditure in the budget, which helps to push both the dollar rate and the interest rate? The analysis provided by the Council of State is not in the way, but the question is: what cannot continue, and what is the Council of State's intention to do to improve competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e184	I don't think the Right and the Labour Party and the Government are so very different about this. I think the Right belongs to the club in this house that actually believes that we should have a responsible economic policy. Here the distinction goes first and foremost between the two big parties on the right, the Right and the Advance Party, and what cannot continue is that we spend so many tens of billions of oil money in addition to the rule of action. The Prime Minister has announced this, the Government has notified it, I have said that – that we must eventually return to the rule of action. It was right to spend so much money in the crisis package, it was right to face the financial crisis so offensively. This has led us to get out of the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment in Europe. That means we haven't lost much of our production capacity through the time of crisis, it means a lot to the individuals we've helped. However, when the crisis is about to come to an end, over-use must also be phased out beyond the rule of action. The goal is to get back to the 4 pst. path, and there I'm sure we have Right hand support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e189	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e192	One of the most important for enterprises that both have development opportunities and want to grow and grow even larger, in order to bring private capital into businesses, is a stable framework. There are stable framework conditions that both are willing to invest and are not least willing to invest in further development of businesses. There are changes in depreciation rules, which are coming in new and new, on the tax regime, but not least on something that is much focused on, and which will be more focused on in the future, namely the form field. We see, among other things, that the EU has set itself relatively clear and good targets for reducing the form field. Norway also has its objectives, but is far from achieving goals in this respect. What will the Council of State actually do to improve the situation regarding the form field for Norwegian enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e199	I fully agree with the objective – this is certainly an objective that all the Ministers for Industry have set themselves, namely to reduce the bureaucratic burden on businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, where this may require a lot of labour and a lot of energy. We have put in place a very comprehensive effort to look at the red tape situation for particularly small and medium-sized enterprises – this is about stock law, it is about accounting law, it is about reporting. We're going to review it and get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, for example. in the case of legislative changes, and there may be other changes to the legislation to alleviate the burden of red tape. Finding the balance between everything that is needed to prevent financial crime, to ensure proper and fair tax systems and little bureaucracy, I think, is an objective that we can work together on. So we're going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e204	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e207	Over 99 pst. by enterprises are small or medium-sized. Half is family time. This is Norway's backbone, and these businesses are crucial for districts and for most people. The Christian People's Party has proposed the removal of the inheritance fee in case of a generation change in family businesses. This is what we think is good business policy; it is good social economy and good district policy. Figures from the European Commission show that successful ownership shifts in small enterprises on average lead to the continuation of five jobs. When we know that well 40,000 companies are facing a generation change over the next ten years here in the country, it's obvious that the government should be concerned about just this. The Soria Moria I statement said that the government would do something about this fee, without anything happening. Soria Moria II doesn't say anything about this at all. What does the new Council of State think about this important matter for family businesses all over the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e214	Now – once again – it is primarily the Minister of Finance who manages the tax regime. We have done things both with the property tax and the inheritance tax during the previous period that have contributed to a fairer tax, but at the same time we believe that we must have a tax system that is perceived as fair to all. I think the biggest problem is to take care of e.g. a new option of solidarity, for moderate wage growth, for enhanced competitiveness, is if people experience that there is no one who is not participating in the fissure layer of the Norwegian welfare society. When we get the zero-tax list, I think it's very harmful for that kind of moderation, for that kind of solidarity, and having a tax system that includes everyone, and that doesn't give tens of billions of tax dollars to those who have the most, I think that also benefits business, because it lays the foundation for a responsible wage policy and a new moderation line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e221	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e224	I stand here with a completely fresh and detailed overview showing the number of new registrations in the Business Register until 31 October 2009. It is distributed among municipalities and counties, and with the exception of a few counties, it is – unfortunately for Left, which is a small business party – a very negative trend. My question to the Council of State is whether he is comfortable with this development, and, if he is not, what concrete action will he take in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e229	There is no doubt that 2009 has been a very tough year. It's a dramatic year out in the world, and the dramatism is reinforced by the fact that many countries are now recovering by means of solid government budget deficits for which they really do not have long-term coverage. We're in a very lucky situation because we have over NOK 2,500 billion on the book and can finance that kind of deficit for a while. But we have to be prepared for the fact that it is going to be a very bumpy path in the future, even in the form that the crisis is not over at all. Fortunately, things are better now – even in small businesses and in the commercial and service industries, things are better. Private demand is on the rise again, and the safety of businesses in order to increase turnover is on the rise. However, we must be prepared to continue to have a good deal of crisis response – that is why in 2010 we also have a government budget that is influenced by it – and must ensure that we re-establish growth and re-establish faith in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e237	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e240	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Today, the municipalities are pushing patients over to the hospitals, and hospitals are pushing patients over to the municipalities. For several years, the Christian People's Party has called for financial instruments to improve the treatment of patients if hospitals and municipalities cooperate for the benefit of the patient. This is one of the key points of the interaction reform. The Minister of Health and Welfare has invited a wide-ranging settlement on the reform. It was therefore surprising reading in Today's Business on Monday that the Minister of Local Affairs disagreed with the announcement of interaction that the Government itself has been involved in, and that the Government presented just under five months ago. It was not possible to interpret it the other way. My question to the Council of State is whether the Government as a whole is in charge of the content of the message and thus meets the treatment of the Storting, or whether the Government intends to withdraw the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e251	I was very surprised to hear about today's business yesterday, where the representative, Mr. Davøy, is trying to misinterpret what I have said to today's business – as if not the entire government is behind the big message. Everything I said in the interview with Today's Business is in St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009. All the assessments to be made and which are also contained in different points there are carefully outlined. There are three different devices of the model that apply to funding, as I was in the interview. Different arrangements for the phase-in of the reform have been outlined. It has been said that one should assess the relationship between the municipalities to finance and that the municipalities can affect either through prevention or through the provision of specific measures. And it has been said that the Ministry will continue to work on the scheme, and that the Government, after the Storting notification has been processed by the Stortinget, will carry out final assessments of the model's device and how the implementation is to be carried out to ensure that it becomes professional and budgetaryly justified – it is stated in paragraph 9.4.4. When I was interviewed by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs of the day, I talked about the various possible phases of the process, about the context in which I, who is to coordinate the services to the local government sector, was busy with the fact that there was to be between the funding to be provided by the municipality and the possibility for municipalities to influence the size of the installations. I hope that the Christian People's Party agrees that such a context should take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e258	I am still a little uncertain about what the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has actually said to today's Business. As I understood it yesterday, it was quite clear that the municipal minister said that a settlement in the Stortinget is okay, but first the government has to decide. I am pleased that the Minister of State here says that the matter is being dealt with in Stortinget. But I want to get an assurance that if the Storting together comes to an agreement, you will make sure from the Government that it is this reconciliation it will be further worked with in the Government. And do those from the government parties in the Health and Care Committee have a good enough mandate for us to reach agreement here in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e263	The government has provided a good big message with an exciting content that offers great opportunities for better health services. It is a decentralisation reform, it is a prevention reform, and it is a reform that obviously requires good cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and all the municipalities in the country – and KS, which also has an important role to play in this. I would like to invite Stortinget to cooperate both in this matter and in other matters. The matter is in Stortinget, it is in the Committee, and we shall normally listen carefully to what the Committee enters in its configuration. That's what we do in this case as in other things. If we get to a broad settlement, it's very good – the dialogue and the process will show how it's going to be – for this minister, I've never been against a broad settlement in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e268	There will be four follow-up questions – Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e271	The Council of State may be seen as believing that an agreement on the interaction reform in Stortinget will end with a municipal merger. That is an hasty conclusion. Nevertheless, robust municipalities are needed to manage several tasks, as set out in the reform. Co-municipalities, as outlined in the interaction notice, will involve a new administrative body and thus risk more bureaucracy. How does the Council of State feel that this will improve the interaction in healthcare for the benefit of patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e278	Communitys are not a new level of administration, but can be a way of cooperating through mandatory cooperation, where one also places responsibility for services. Today, we have several models of intermunicipal cooperation – we have ICS, which is widely used in more business areas, and we have the host municipality model that many people use. It will continue to be good models. In addition, we now issue the co-municipal model and assess his legal status. This will mean that some municipalities will have a political selection that will have decisions that are legally binding on the municipalities involved and that have made agreements with the joint municipality. I think there may be one of several solutions to meet the problem that the representative is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e285	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e288	Now there are many uncertainties when it comes to the interaction reform, and many things that are not finally in place. One of the arrangements for the interaction reform to work is that we have municipalities of a certain size, and that we have competence in municipalities to deal with users. As mentioned in previous follow-up questions, a joint municipality is now starting to run as an alternative to a municipal merger. It shall be additional to regional councils. It shall be in addition to the cooperation of intercommunal companies and in intercommunal cooperation. It comes in addition to the county, and it comes in addition to the county office. The question then is, how many different levels of government is it preferable to have in a country with less than five million inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e297	The government is voluntary when it comes to intermunicipal cooperation, and we see that municipalities have a long tradition of cooperating with each other and finding good solutions. It's here in Norway in the same way as in some of our neighbouring countries. The co-municipal model has been tested over a long time in Finland, where one has large service sectors that have been introduced into such a scheme, among other health sectors. The smallest municipalities themselves say that intercommunal solutions are a good and necessary solution for recruiting the necessary skills and creating a good and robust professional environment. You can look at the community model in several ways. I don't see the model as a superior body in relation to the municipalities, but more as a practical arrangement, which when a group creates a subsidiary to outsource tasks that one of the practical reasons will have a different organisation. It's a little bit after what a choose to consider this as.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e309	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e312	The former Central Party Minister for the Interior, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, proposed health municipalities. The current Central Party municipal minister has obviously also taken the life of Health Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's idea of large-scale municipal co-financing. In any case, when a question related to this reform is raised, one of the answers ‘co-municipalities’ and ‘co-operation’ is given by the Centre Party. It is quite obvious that in a joint municipality one will have a new defined responsibility. This means that the solution would mean that a few municipalities with a defined responsibility, co-municipalities with a defined responsibility and the specialist health service with a defined responsibility. How does the Minister of Municipalities think that introducing three levels with a defined responsibility will improve interaction in a system where there are already major challenges to interaction between two levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e321	I don't think of it as the big challenge if it's the one or the other model being chosen. The major challenge is to have a good interaction between the state health services and the municipal service providers. The challenges are whether you have large or small municipalities, because they are two different systems that need to communicate, talk to each other, and learn how to design an interaction system that can slide painlessly. We still have a job to do there. The message is now in Stortinget, and the Government will continue to work on the basis of what the Storing will find out and report back to the Government. The challenge lies there, and we have to deal with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e330	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e333	We in the Left are also concerned about the administrative – ordering skills and everything you need in many small units to do the job. But the Left Party and the Central Party have traditionally been those who fight for the local People's Government, those who fight for direct involvement, that it should be easy to get involved, that it should be easy to know who it is you vote for, and what the consequences are when you vote for someone. Getting the local government to live is important to get our welfare state to live at all. My question to the Council of State is: is she not concerned about the local People's Government when we now see that we are transferring power to rapporteur clubs, to companies, to everything that is organized over this regime, about what the Left and the Center parties have always fought for, instead of seeing if we can organize our People's Government in a way that actually gives us direct contact between them the responsibility lies with, and the tasks to be carried out? Isn't it that we're now making a lot of intermediates that are really undermining the rule of the people we've stood together and fought for?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e342	In Denmark, a large merger of municipalities has taken place. In the newspaper politics one could read a while ago: ‘Policians dump the new municipalities. Four out of ten municipal politicians are disappointed by the municipal reform. It has become too far between citizens and politicians.’ There are interviews of several politicians from the Left Party, among others Erik Fabrin, who complain that the distance was too long: In the past we could talk to people, «now we are members of a board of directors in a big business», which is far from people. In a merged municipality there is also a left-wing representative who says that formerly closes a hole in the road, and one had low costs for kindergartens. Now the nursery expenses have increased by 50 pst. after the merger, and beyond the city border, no one is interested in what is happening. I think the last thing is something that we also notice in Norway with the resistance that is around the country, which is also about local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e354	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e357	My question goes to the Minister of State. There were probably a lot of local politicians around the whole country who choked the coffee this weekend, when they heard the Central Party's libertarian representative here in the Stortinget, Ola Borten Moe, saying that he wanted to impose coercion in connection with the settlement of refugees in Norwegian municipalities. It is a well-known fact that, in the case of Norwegian immigration policy, this government has had little difficulty in using coercion, particularly in the context of the establishment of asylum-seekers, without informing local democracy or dedicating it to such institutions. Now the next wave has come, in the sense that a number of the refugees who have been living under the asylum policy that has been completely out of control in recent years are now to be settled. And once again, such an instrument — overrule local judgement, override local democracy, set aside the discretionary judgment of local politicians in the responsible decisions taken — will be used when assessing the reception and settlement of refugees. My question to the Council of State is: Is it such that the principle of local democracy is now fully set aside, that, in order to – to say – penalise a lack of government governance on the part of the state as regards Norwegian immigration policy in general and Norwegian asylum policy in particular, is willing to put local democracy aside, completely override, and place refugees in Norwegian municipalities without questioning local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e368	First of all, the representative Ola Borten Moe has seen a very important debate on the agenda: how do we look at those who are going to bus in the municipalities, who are going to become new residents in the municipalities? Should they be seen as a resource – as someone who can become a resource and be well integrated into the community? How do municipalities get frames and action spaces to do a good integration job and do them in a way that will make them a resource? There is an important debate in Norwegian society that I support that Ola Borten Moe is taking up. Then he has fed this debate with his proposal of coercion. Here, at least Ola and I may not have even discussed the finals – the representative Ola Borten Moe and I will have a round about it – but I appreciate that we in the Central Party have good politicians who saw important things on the agenda. And then we take the debate. Having said that, I would also say that the concern of the Progress Party for the municipalities in this matter is amazing – when we register the eagerness to merge municipalities. Nor have I heard a call about a municipal merger in Kommune-Noreg – a lot of votes against it. There I am not talking about the same concern for local democracy and for what one thinks locally. Behind the question, it can also hide a thought that these are things they in the Progress Party are not too for, that one should be given well-brillied refugees. It's the Government. We strengthen the potential of municipalities for good integration and construction. We have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e377	It is not exactly the way the municipal minister tries to present it as, that the Progress Party wants to force a municipal merger. We listen to local democracy – we do that in all matters relating to it. Therefore, I think it is very strange that, in particular, a central government council indirectly calls for the overrule of the municipalities – this is precisely the discretion exercised locally. All statistics show that municipalities are very responsible for the assessments made in the case of refugees. So there's no need to use such an instrument. I notice that every time it comes to immigration policy, asylum policy and the settlement of refugees, red-green politicians use the term ‘force’ and are willing to put it into practice. I'm calling for the same commitment to use coercion to provide for e.g. full hospital coverage. Why is it that every time red-green politicians are forced into action, it is often in connection with proposals in the area of Norwegian integration policy and immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e384	It is not very often that red-green politicians use the word ‘force’ to the municipalities. We want to have a good dialogue with the municipalities, we want to listen to them. And that's not the least by strengthening them and providing the framework that gives them the space for action to do good priorities and a good job locally. So I have to repeat: this is a proposal from one representative for a debate. That debate will, of course, take place in a good, democratic society. But it is not said that it is red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e392	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Gjermund Hageseter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e395	In contrast to the Center Party, the Progress Party respects local democracy. We don't want to rage in any way against local democracy. We want fewer municipalities, but we don't want coercion. On the other hand, we want to be voluntary and to give economic instruments and economic incentives to achieve voluntary aggregation. We do that because we think that the inhabitants will be lit with larger municipal units, which can build up a greater level of competence in different areas. We want to use carrots – both large and small – to get municipal approximations. My question to the Council of State is whether it will also consider waving some carrots to the municipalities – to get voluntary municipal councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e402	If one takes local democracy seriously, one will see that there is a local one that is best placed to assess whether one should join the neighbouring municipalities. If you follow that reasoning, you don't need carrots, but a system that doesn't lose on such a combination. Therefore, the Government stated in the Soria Moria statement that the costs associated with any merger should not be charged to the municipalities. That's what the government has to take. Of course, to clear the road these kinds of obstacles that had to lie there. My appeal to the Progress Party's representative is that the Progress Party begins with its own municipalities, and goes out and takes the necessary initiatives. There is nothing today that prevents municipal convergence if local politicians want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e407	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e410	After hearing the Council of State, it is clear that the coercive idea does not have ground in the whole of the Centre Party, but at least parts of the Centre Party want to use force to place refugees in the municipalities. Navarsete says this is an interesting and important debate, it is important to raise this debate. I agree with that, from the perspective that next year there will be twice as many residents in Norwegian municipalities as it has been done this year. Not least, there is an explosion in lone minor asylum seekers who are now settled in Norway. It's expected to settle 1,600 in municipalities next year. We know that this particular group of municipalities sees it as difficult to accept. The question is: If you are not going to use coercion, what measures will the Council of State and the Government take to settle these lone minor asylum seekers, who often have a difficult starting point?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e419	The question to the representative of Greece moves into a subject area which is not directly its municipal and regional minister but which is situated in another Council of State. I don't want to go into the details of the actions that you want to set up, because I think the trade minister has to respond to that. Of course, when it comes to the distribution instructions, the coordination of measures both on the services side and in relation to district policy and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is my role to ensure that municipalities are able to do the job. This dialogue will take place both with the KS and local authorities and in close cooperation with the specialist council, Audun Lysbakken, who has the technical responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e426	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions. The President stressed that follow-up questions should mainly address the matter under the responsibility of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e429	I interpret the Council of State's response when it comes to forcing municipalities, like that it's not the government's policy now, but that she likes to take a debate around it. It will also be part of the Christian People's Party, of course. Nevertheless, this does not solve what is the big challenge in this case, namely that people remain very long – too long – at asylum receptions before they become residents of the municipalities. Do the Councils consider other possible measures to speed up the settlement of asylum seekers who have been resident in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e434	I remind you once again that the question will be addressed to the subject area of the Council of State. If the Council of State wants to respond on the basis of the municipal role of the question raised here, the Council of State would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e437	When it comes to my responsibilities, I can actually just repeat what I answered the previous question: I want to have a good dialogue with the municipalities. We have a good example of successful integration into local communities, where those who have moved have become good and important resources in the community. I would like to highlight the examples, highlight how we do it, give the municipalities a framework, and then the department and the trade minister will come back with the concrete measures that the Government will then take.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e442	We move on to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e446	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, and I'm going to try to stick to her responsibility, the municipal structure. If she wants to take responsibility for a decent municipal structure, it's a different question. On 25 September, just before Navarsete took over, the government representative from Sogn and Fjordane, County Fjordane, sent a letter with a clear message. It says: ‘Member States are increasingly able to meet demands and expectations that many small municipalities are unable to meet [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘There is a danger that reforms will speed up and be more extensive than local authorities have resources to implement. It may in turn lead to ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ municipalities.’ Furthermore, he writes: ‘We are concerned about a municipal structure that is mutilating the reforms that we all expect to see happening. The county council has a supervisory responsibility, and we feel it right to point out that it seems to us to be an increasing challenge that the scope of reforms does not take into account a fixed municipal structure.’ And then he finally says, ‘And, in both circumstances, a marked incentive should be given in order to obtain voluntary solutions.’ One question is whether the Council of State agrees with this. After all, the interaction reform has speeded up the debate on the municipal structure, and we have heard in earlier questions that the Navarsete Council is concerned about this with co-municipalities. She pointed to Finland as a good example. It may be worth noting that in Finland they do not have a proper county municipality. There is an indirectly selected state level. But in any case, there are many layers of administration on top of each other, and so very uncertain whether it is possible to get democratic governance of the municipalities with that arrangement. Will the council give the municipalities incentives, so that the volunteers can join together, as was the case under the Bondevik II government, when Erna Solberg was a minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e476	Yes, under the government council of Solberg, incentives were given. It wasn't really the big result of the incentives, as I'm interpreting it. Since 2002, we have probably had five voluntary municipal associations, and in several of them, the Centre Party has been sitting with the spokesperson and our important and good drivers in order to get good solutions. Then one can look beyond borders, to Denmark, which carried out a comprehensive municipal reform in 2007. They reduced the number of municipalities from 271 to 98. Two new studies show that four out of ten local politicians are dissatisfied with the reform. Norway is a long-distance country. There will always be challenges related to geography and distance in this country, and a large-scale communism will not cancel it unless coercion also means, if one goes in for it, that the inhabitants are forced to move. Therefore, I believe that the municipalities themselves will find good solutions either through cooperation or through aggregation. That is what is local self-government or local democracy. Those who are occupied with local democracy and at the same time are concerned that we should, either through economic incentives or through coercion, push the municipalities into a merger, I might not be on the line with. So we see that the municipal structure in some places can lead to challenges, but I think that cooperation is the easiest and best solution. I would also like to clear out a feeling that some people want to create, that I am so opposed to aggregation. No, but I see challenges related to it because of geography and that the services after all should be given where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e488	Then I interpret it in such a way that the Council of State Navarsete is strongly opposed to the coercion of municipalities. It's not surprising. But the fact that the councils are also opposed to giving incentives, giving economic instruments, carrots or what one would call it, for the municipalities to merge is more surprising. That means that the Council of State says: I am in favour of a community merger, but I am not going to contribute financially to the profitability of it. Not even a road, the Council of State is interested in giving to get the municipalities to join forces. It has proved to be a good tool. My question really concerns the democratic deficit. The councils referred to IKS, she referred to co-municipalities, she referred to a number of structures created to make municipalities cooperate better. But this will be a councillor and rapporteur's field, where local authorities are out of play without the possibility to influence decisions. Does the Council of State of Navarsete think that this type of structure is better than well-functioning large municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e497	First of all, the Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that the municipalities that want to merge will not have any financial costs with it. That's to the extent that it's an incentive. If there are municipalities that have plans to merge, I have said when I have met KS, that they are welcome to discuss it. Then we may discuss what they would like in that context, and then we have a good dialogue with the municipalities about it. That's the way I want to go: through good dialogue. So to the democratic deficit of which many are occupied. I think that if you have five municipalities that have 100 municipal government representatives together, and you combine them and reduce it to 20 for all municipalities, or if you want 20 of them to sit in a joint municipality and run some of the services, you can safely discuss what is the most and least democracy of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e506	There will be two follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e509	I expect the Council of State has read the letter from the Prime Representative of the Government in her own country, and seen the challenges pointed out by the County of Sogn and Fjordane. There is one common feature of all the challenges that the county in that letter points to, and that is that today's municipal structure is affecting the weakest in our society. There are challenges related to child-restraint children, who become national/municipal throw-offs, there are challenges related to drug users, who become throw-offs between the different levels, and there are challenges related to our patients, which are well described in the interaction reform, and who become throw-offs between the different levels. The truth is that for us ordinary people, who largely relate us to the municipality as a supplier of water and the one who picks up the home once a week, it works relatively well, but that's because the type of services have moved over to an intermunicipal level. There are differences between water and sewage and our most basic welfare services. Does the Minister of State not see that we have a challenge in moving decisions to those types of bodies to an inter-municipal level?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e520	Since the Right is busy with my home country, I can tell you that I know it quite well. The Right-Controlled Hornindal Municipality is one of the smallest. I haven't registered one initiative from the Right Spokesman, who has now been a staging representative, that the municipality must join Stryn because the services in the Hornindal municipality are so bad. It's surprising from the discussion that's here in the hall today. Sunund municipality is an island community with many islands. Neither the State of Sogn and Fjordne nor anyone else can bring them into the country and make them effective, merged with other municipalities. There are some such local authorities that one actually has to discuss when a person is so keen on community convergence, as Right does. I have dialogue with all the municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane. There are very few who are eager to merge, but there are many who are eager to cooperate and to find good models, so that one can use common resources in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e531	Gjermund Hageseter – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e534	I think it's pretty clear from the Council of State that in the next few years she doesn't want to lift a finger to bring together the municipalities of Norway, but that the Council of State, perhaps reluctantly, will accept mergers if the initiative comes from a local perspective. Now I realize that the opposition does not make a particular impression on a plural government, but I registered that on Monday the council was in its own home state. There she was. Meeting with Youth County. They have also adopted a resolution, where they thought it was time to look at the municipal structure and the municipal councils because it had not been done for a long time. Then my question is: do these kinds of statements and resolutions, from the youth of their homeland, impress upon the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e543	I got a statement from the Youth County where one with barely possible multiples, I believe, as I was told, had a recommendation for a community consultation. When our meeting was about district development in the direction of the district center, one can, of course, discuss how one in the countryside, in a state like Sogn and Fjordane with a scattered bust, can create new optimism and glow with the answer, and the only answer that came from Youth County was municipal convergence. I don't know if there's any reason for optimism for the towns of Sogn and Fjordane or not, it's gonna show up in the future. I'm going to listen to Youth County anyway, because it's an important instance to listen to. But we should also listen to the inhabitants who live in these municipalities and what their answers are. Here there are both young and old, and there are many shades in the answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e550	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e557	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e560	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e565	The President assumes that the representative of Solberg wants to comment that there are many issues that have been raised. I have a great deal of understanding for that. The President asks the representative to take this up in line with the Rules of Procedure at the end of the sitting, and it will be dealt with in an appropriate way – if acceptable to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e568	That's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e573	The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 9, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 10, 12 and 13 from the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Anders B. Werp and Tor Sigbjørn The Minister of Justice are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice, was answered by the Minister for Food and Trade as the Council of State for the matter in question. The question falls, however, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 14, from the representative Trond Helleland to the minister at the Prime Minister's office, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him. The question will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade as the Council of State for the matter in question. The question falls, however, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 22, from the representative of the Svein Fleet to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 23, from Kent Gudmundsen's representative to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, is answered by the Minister for Renewal and Church on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e599	This question, from Trine Skei Grande to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office, will be answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e602	I wonder if the Prime Minister can answer with regard to this Council of State at the Prime Minister's office: ‘How and in what areas is the Council of State constitutionally responsible to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e609	Councillor Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen is appointed as Councillor at the Prime Minister's office. He will assist me in directing the work of the Government. The responsibility for implementing decisions at the Prime Minister's office will lie with me as Prime Minister and head of the office. Constitutional liability means the legal liability which may be invoked against members of the Stortinget, the Government and the Supreme Court for criminal and other unlawful offences involving breaches of constitutional obligations. It is the Storting that determines whether an action is to be brought and the Riksrecht that decides whether constitutional liability should be invoked against a Council of State. The constitutional responsibility of the Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen is the same as that of other Councils of State. Like other government councils, the Schjøtt-Pedersen State Council will be responsible for the decisions that he is taking in the Council of State under the Constitution § 5 and the third paragraph of Section 30. State Council Schjøtt-Pedersen will also be responsible, in line with other members of the Government, for not violating the provisions of the Liability Act through the performance of his duties. For example, he wants to. may be held liable by a constitutional nature if he is contributing to something contrary to the Constitution or to other laws, if such a decision by the Storting is made without the consent of the Storing, or if he contributes to the improper use of the property or other resources of the State, or in any other manner, of indecency or negligence in its activities. When the Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen meets in Stortinget, he will be responsible for complying with the provision of the Constitution § 82 that no members of the Government must provide incorrect or misleading information to the Stortinget. Councillor Schjøtt-Pedersen will meet in Stortinget on different occasions. For example, it would be natural for him to meet in general debates such as the financial debate and the debate on the throne. The Prime Minister's office does not normally present proposals or messages to the Stortinget. Therefore, like the Prime Minister, Councillor Schjøtt-Pedersen will not bring matters before Stortinget. This will now, as in the past, be done by the individual specialist council responsible for its field of competence. It is in line with long traditions and in accordance with the Basic Law Sections 3 and 12 that the government itself determines how it organises its work, including the distribution of the work force between the government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e628	I have to say, I'm amazed at the answer. I thought maybe you had time to do a better job, and also by reading the history books. Johan Sverdrup set a principle in 1884, which was the introduction of parliamentaryism. The basic idea of that is that government councils and a government actually start from this house. They get to organize the work as they like, but that's this house you answer for. That's this house power of a government starting from. It does not emanate from the Prime Minister's office, even though we have a majority government. In fact, when it comes to constitutional responsibility, it's right what the Prime Minister explains here. But one also has a responsibility to answer political questions in Stortinget. So my follow-up question is: will Minister Schjøtt-Pedersen ever meet in Stortinget to answer questions? Will he ever meet in the ordinary Question Time? Is he ever going to meet in the oral quiz? Now he has transferred all the questions he has received in today's Question Time to other government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e635	First, a little bit for history writing. The crucial thing is that it is in line with the Constitution, it is in line with long tradition, and it is in line with what several governments have done that the government itself determines how it organizes its work. Of course, it must be consistent with the fact that all members of the Government are accountable to the Stortinget. So, as I said in my answer, Councillor Schjøtt-Pedersen is constitutionally responsible to Stortinget for all of the matters dealt with by the Council of State. He is, of course, also responsible for all the information he had to provide from e.g. The granddaughter's pulpit. It can also follow the Storting up. That's what's in the control function that Stortinget has. The Liability Act applies to him. He is, of course, also responsible for the information he provides to Stortinget. In Norway, the expert councils respond to questions related to the different disciplines. Therefore, there will also be future practice in the various disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e644	I interpret the answer there that he will not meet in the Questionnaire, nor in the oral, as the Prime Minister actually does. After this reply, I must say that this is a government that has an incredibly arrogant attitude towards Parliament. I respect any government's attitude to how it wants to organize its work, but the introduction of its own Council posts, which are a violation of a long tradition, and the Prime Minister's adherence to state councils without any portfolio or responsibility, is actually quite new since we got the king power. The king was happy with government councils that were supposed to take care of him, but we don't have such a parliamentary tradition. This is a whole new tradition. I believe that this is an arrogance to the Norwegian Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e651	It's not right that it's completely new. In the past, we have also had government councils without portfolios in Norway. In very many other countries, this type of government is common. In Sweden, a similar system exists, although the system in Sweden is somewhat different. What we're basing this on is exactly what's clear in the Constitution, which is a long tradition, that the government itself determines how the government's work is organized. Then the entire government – all the state councils – is accountable to Stortinget. It is also Schjøtt-Pedersen in the matters that have been dealt with in the Council of State or in the information he gives to Stortinget from Stortinget's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e661	From the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘After the signed experience, 12 Uighurs have been sentenced to death in China for the past few weeks. What initiatives will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take against the Chinese authorities, and in international forums, to prevent the execution of death sentences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e669	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e675	To something completely different: ‘In today’s defense, over 90 pst. by the persons liable for security clearance. The aim is for all to be cleared at the beginning of the service. However, according to the Swedish Security Council, one in five soldiers is unable to obtain security clearance during the entire initial service due to length of proceedings. This places clear limits on their tasks and opportunities for the relevant service. What concrete action does the Council of State take to clean up this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e689	I am committed to ensuring that, in line with others in need of security clearance, protective persons are treated within a reasonable time and with the due diligence of the individual. Today, in some cases, the length of the procedure is obviously too long. The Ministry of Defence has therefore taken several important steps to reduce time use. A clearing process, where personal checks are carried out, is an intervention against an individual. Such a process should therefore not be initiated if the service does not indicate a need for him to be cleared. In 2008, the rules of the Security Act on Object Safety were amended. The changes here will also lead to the need for fewer safety clearances. This will release the capacity to deal with the remaining cases more quickly. The amendment is planned to enter into force early 2010. I will follow this development carefully. However, it must be emphasised that the time of the proceedings may vary from case to case, depending on the findings made through the personal checks. Let me go back a little bit in time. In 2007, the Ministry of Defence set up a working group to identify measures for the shorter duration of proceedings in security clearance cases for data subjects. The Group issued its report in 2008. Based on this report, the Ministry of Defence commissioned three important measures to reduce the length of proceedings in spring 2009. Firstly, the defence now goes through which jobs actually require security clearance and, where appropriate, the level of clearance. As others have also pointed out, there is hardly any need to clear up all those under protection to the level ‘Holy’. Secondly, the defence has been given a mandate to transfer the responsibility for recording information to the recruitment schools that are more close to the personnel. Thirdly, the defence shall also improve the reporting procedures for those subject to protection who are graduates prior to the completion of the clearing decision so that those cases can be closed rapidly. As mentioned above, the Ministry has entrusted the Defence Department with the task of implementing several measures. Finally, I would like to mention that the Ministry is now preparing changes to the legislation relating to the clearance of staff with dual citizenship, so that these matters can also be dealt with more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e702	I would like to thank you for a constructive answer. A unanimous decision has been made that the obligation to protect must be both relevant and meaningful. It is then very important to have a safety clearance in place as quickly as possible, and preferably before completion of the Recruitment School, so that when these are allocated to their future posts, they already have a safety clearance at the bottom. I'm pleased with the three main goals that the Council of State addresses. Nevertheless, it is sad to say that the length of the procedure will be too long, so that the procedure is not completed until the individual guardian has changed to his or her normal position. I also have a strong understanding of the scepticism of a large degree of prior clearance, i.e. security clearance prior to the start of the service, precisely from what the Minister of Defence says, that it is an intervention in privacy and therefore has to be limited. But at the same time, you might see that some people will have a job that needs to be cleared, and they can be cleared in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e716	As I mentioned in my answer, it is obvious that we have had individual cases with an excessive length of time. In my view, in the follow-up of the Department to clean up these matters, we have found a balanced solution between changes in the rules and the implementation of practical measures in the current legislation. I hope that the review of which jobs need clarification will also help to resolve the procedural time challenge, but not least take care of the need for legal certainty required by the individual to be cleared.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e721	I would like to thank you again for your answer. That's 90 pst. by those who are currently in positions in need of security clearance, the main objective of the Council of State to limit the number of posts in security clearance is clearly the most important track to follow. I look forward to having completely different figures in a short time, and I hope that the Council of State will follow this closely, so that the years up to now will actually be the peak, where one sees a clear decrease in both the time spent on individual clearance and, not least, the number of people standing without security clearance at the start of ordinary service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e730	As I have already said, I can promise that this is an area I will follow closely. Not least with the regulatory changes that I have already explained, I hope that we will also make a constructive change with a view to reducing the processing time for individual cases with regard to clearance, which will of course continue to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e738	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The army recently completed the Faryab exercise, a final certification for PRT 14 which will then travel to Afghanistan in the month of November/December 2009. In the course of the exercise, it became clear that part of the nominated team failed to comply with the certification requirements. What part is this talk about, how much have these soldiers done through their initial service, and does the Council of State see a connection between the very low level of training and activity in the Army and the fact that a department has not now been able to obtain the certification requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e747	The security situation in Afghanistan is demanding, and this places great demands on our soldiers and departments. Therefore, in order to ensure that they are well prepared for international operations, Defence sets strict certification requirements. Through the long-term proposition, the government has strengthened the exercise period prior to foreign operations. Exercise Faryab is an important certification exercise for our departments sent to Afghanistan. The final evaluation for the exercise Faryab shows that PRT 14 has completed a very good training and training period. At the same time, it is clear that a smaller part of the department did not meet all the requirements. This applies to parts of the infantry rope included in PRT Meymaneh. The unit is recruited from His Majesty the King's Guard and has, in addition to the first 12 months of service since 9 August, completed specific training aimed at the Afghanistan mission. Because of his special mission, the service of His Majesty the King's Guard is different from other army departments. Garden has good soldiers, but it has turned out to be the need for a more targeted departmental training adapted to the Afghanistan mission. The defence is now evaluating the training for PRT14 to identify the reasons why parts of the infantry summit did not exist. At the same time, it is positive that the defence has a certification system that identifies any lack of competence. This enables the defence to take action, if necessary, to enable departments to discharge their duties and ensure the safety of their personnel in a good way. The infantry unit continues its training in Norway until it is approved before it is dispatched to Afghanistan. Meanwhile, an infantry unit from Telemark Battalion will carry out the mission. In 2009, the Departments of the Army averaged approx. 20 days of practice. In addition, soldiers involved in international operations carry out a mission-specific training period. In this case, it has been found that soldiers recruited from the Garden had an extra training need. This is now being followed up in a good way. I therefore believe that the lack of certification cannot be directly related to the general level of practice and activity. Finally, I would like to stress that the rest of the 300 personnel tested for the training of Faryab have passed the certification requirements and are thus well qualified to serve in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e770	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This was an isolated example. There could have been enough other examples of the situation of today’s Norwegian defence. I agree with what the Council of State says about the fact that the security situation is demanding, and it should therefore have increased bet, increased strength, on the concept of ‘training and training’. Yesterday's budget hearing on the Ministry of Defence's budget revealed, however, the situation we are in. For example, the Engineering Battalion has one third of the resources it needs to meet adopted education objectives. We were told about artillery workers who, over the last two weeks of winter, were at the great NATO exercise 'Cold Response' and who were not allowed to shoot a single sharp shot. They loaded with air, as they said. Does not the generally lower level of activity within the exercise show that the strengths to perform sharp tasks are poorly rusted for the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e781	I believe that the specific case cannot be directly related to the general level of training and activity in the Army, and the Government's draft budget provides a comprehensive basis for the level of activity and human resources to be maintained at the same level as in 2009. The 2010 budget is perceived as tight in defence, but in priority areas it will still be possible to increase activity and capacity. And then mission-specific training and practice for international operations is such a priority area. I would like to stress that the mission-specific training, carried out up to six months before deployment, is in addition to the regular training undertaken during the initial service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e786	Thanks again for the answer, but I cannot join the Council of State conclusions. I believe that this example that I referred to in my question illustrates a very serious situation, which in Afghanistan is going to prove more and more demanding. This is very clearly underlined, not least by the National Audit Office’s review of the defence activity, which concludes that the overall operational capability of the defence has not been strengthened in the period 2005-2008, as foreseen. The recent review by the National Audit Office underlines this again. You just don't achieve the levels you set as your goal. Operational capability has become lower than desired and there is a marked reduction in exercise activity. Is not the most profound explanation exactly in the conclusions that the Riksrevision has given, which are displayed in my question?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e791	I will not repeat myself, but I see the need to stress again that there are strict certification requirements before leaving for participation in a mission, for example. in Afghanistan, and that a mission-specific training has been organised for up to six months prior to deployment. Then I'm sure the representative Kristiansen and I can have long and good discussions on how to implement the ambition of the long-term defence plan. In the period up to 2012, we have a common ambition: to balance in a good way the ambition of the Defence with available resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e799	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Children are transported daily by school bus who do not have belts. Belts are required by car, and it is unacceptable that children are not secured with belts in school buses. Will the Council of State ensure that children are secured with belts in school buses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e808	I'm busy having all the school students, regardless of what county they grow up in, have a safe and defensive way to school. I still mean that it won't be useful to introduce a government directive on seatbelts to all school students in school pillows. Let me first refer to the current legislation on requirements for the installation of safety belts in buses. The vehicle category bus with more than 22 passenger spaces is divided into three bus classes depending on the area of use and the class classification is decisive for the requirements of safety belts. Bus class 1 is mainly useful for urban transport and for densely built struts. Bus class 3 is used for long-distance routes and buses, while class 2 is an intermediate between buses and city buses. In Norway there is a requirement for the installation of safety belts in delayed places for Class 3 bus registered after 1 April 1991. Requirements for the installation of safety belts were extended from 1 October 1999 to all seats in class 3 bus and class 2 bus. Bus Class 1 is not subject, with reference to the area of use, to safety belt requirements for either drivers or passengers. These technical requirements are identical throughout the EEA territory. The individual carrier itself assesses the types of buses to be operated on the different routes. The county councils may, however, lay down requirements for the use of a specific bus class in the concession terms of the individual route. By means of agreements with the carriers, the county and municipality can create their own transport facilities for schoolchildren and set separate requirements for safety, such as: available safety belt on buses used for school children’s transport. Thus, the county has great freedom in the design of the collective service and to impose additional requirements on the material that becomes useful. Following a mission from the Ministry of Transport, Sintef has mapped the school skyscraper supply to county councils and carried out a risk and accident analysis devoted to such transport. The report ‘Security related to the transport of school children by bus’ was submitted to the Ministry in May 2008. The report shows that schoolchildren are slightly injured as passengers by bus and that the injuries that occur are not very serious. Based on the figures collected from the police accident register, the report estimates that two children of primary school age have been seriously harmed during schooling on buses during the period 2002–2006. This is two children too much. The report also shows that several county councils are actively involved in road safety and school-dressing by requiring seats for school students and by other regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e819	The fact that there are rules for the use of seat belts on newer buses actually helps very little, because there are usually old buses used for school pillows. The use of seatbelts is perhaps the single measure that has helped most to reduce the extent of heavy damage and killed in traffic. There are clear and strict rules for securing cargo and goods during transport, but the largest value transport carried out daily in this country is the transport of our children. It's the most valuable thing we have, and there's no requirement for security here. Will the Council of State propose the necessary changes to the law to prohibit the carriage of schoolchildren by bus without belts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e826	I share the questioner's concern when it comes to securing children safe scholastic kisses. If you look at the buses currently in use, which are registered before 1 October 1999 and are not required to wear a seat belt, you can in fact, if you want to retrofit your seat belt, expect a total of 760 million. kr. I mean, we're going to spend the funds on traffic security measures other than this, especially in the light of the fact that the county councils now have a strong commitment to securing all the schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e833	As a bus driver, I myself know the fear that many drivers are sitting with each day, the fear that other people will be injured or life will be lost. We know that as simple as safety belts can significantly reduce the amount of damage and death. As I interpret the Council of State, I will almost claim that this is a discharge. The question then is: will the Council of State continue to disclaim responsibility for the safe transport of schoolchildren?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e840	I thought it was nice to get such a direct driver's assessment, especially because the bus drivers are one of several groups that just make sure that the transport is usually safe. Of course, when it comes to the set of calculators, it is theoretically possible to retrofit the belt. But I think we need to have a combination of spending considerable resources on other measures and stimulating additional assessments that still need to be made locally — the type of bus to use, or possibly any other material — to maintain road safety. I do not deny the responsibility that I have, but I think it is most useful that the municipalities and county councils have the decisive word here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e853	‘After demanding but good work locally, Oslopackak 3 now appears to be feasible. In the election campaign, the promises from the red-greens set out to increase the bet on traffic in Oslo and Akershus. How does the new Council of State view the challenges of transport in this region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e860	In Oslo and Akershus, a large growth in jobs and bustling has been expected in the years to come. It provides the capital area with major transport challenges that need to be resolved. I am busy addressing these challenges in the best possible way and am therefore pleased with the established cross-political cooperation on Oslopackak 3. Transport challenges call for effective, environmentally friendly and safe solutions. The state is busy looking at the health when it comes to the right grips and the good transport solutions for Oslo and Akershus should be given priority. This is why basic portfolio management for Oslopackakt3 has been added so that the parties can continuously prioritize and choose the best actions and projects. Through the national transport plan for the period 2010–2013, the country is economically heavy within the package, with a large contribution to road transport, and not least to the railway operation. It is also good that large funds have been provided for the operation of public transport in the package. This results in a fast user experience. Of course, good cooperation between countries and local authorities is important in addressing transport challenges in the Oslo area. We have a common challenge in prioritizing the best and most important projects in the region, while experiencing reduced revenue in the bombing and higher costs than expected for some large projects. The size has given guidance on the direction in which the package is to be developed. The concrete priority of actions shall focus on climate change considerations. The proportion of funds going to collective action shall be at least at the level of the original local proposal. I support such a development. Let me draw another line: I am pleased that there is a good cooperation between Akershu County Municipality, Oslo Municipality, the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration through the Oslopack 3. The Steering Group shall establish a common basis for decisions on action programmes and budgets in Akershus County, Oslo Municipality and Stortinget. Further work on the funding base and the scope of the package will focus on wide participation from Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e873	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm also very happy that the deal went well in the end. But perhaps the Council of State is aware of the large budget excesses at the Ulven-Sinsen in Oslo? This has resulted in several important and environmentally friendly transport projects in Oslo being pushed out in time or perhaps not realised at all, also on the basis of the toll revenue that is now failing. My question to the Council of State is then: Will the State take greater responsibility for the budget excesses imposed on Oslopackak 3 by the State Road Administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e882	The Oslopacket 3 Steering Group itself proposes to follow-up the exceedances. on the Wolf-Sinsen. They have proposed a loan withdrawal of approximately NOK 1 billion in 2010. There is no previous suggestion for the Oslopacket 3 Storing to allow Mountain Line AS to raise such a loan. It is therefore necessary for the Storting to give its consent to such a proposal. I will follow it up and in a short time I will come to Stortinget with a case that deals with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e889	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Another challenge is urban railways, located in Oslopackak 3. The councils are probably well aware of it from their own part of the country – the North-Jear Railway. The Bondevik II government played a very active role in putting the urban runway in place, for example. in Bergen. In Oslopackakt 3 there are three demanding urban railway projects: it is the Kolsåssbahnen, it is the Fornebubanen, and it is a new path for Aarhus. Can we in this context count on state drag help? The urban runway is a very environmentally friendly solution – it is probably well known to the Council of State – but at the same time it is very costly. Can we expect some help from the state to urban railways – especially in the Oslo area, but also in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e898	I understand that the Kolsåsbanen is for evaluation in the matters that are now being clarified in the steering group. The city track is mentioned in Soria Moria II – I share with the representative Tenden’s assessment that there is a very important collective action in several cities. In Soria Moria it is said that the government should provide a framework for the county councils – that is, the ones that are involved here in the local context – that allows the county councils to realise better collective provision, including urban railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e908	‘The outbreak of swine flu has led to an exceptional situation for many hospitals. Among other things, all planned heart surgery is stopped at the University Hospital of North Norway to expand the capacity for intensive treatment. Due to the lack of intensive nurses and doctors, the Rikshospital has experienced heart surgery. The same is true of St. Olav's hospital. At the Feiring Clinic, there is available operational and intensive monitoring capacity. Will the Council of State ensure that patients undergoing cardiac surgery in other hospitals receive an offer at the Feiringklinik?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e915	Regional health enterprises have overall responsibility for providing sound specialist health services to the population in their health region. This is referred to as providing responsibility and is governed by the law on specialist health care. Regional health businesses discharge their responsibilities through the use of their own health businesses or private actors such as the Fairing Clinic. Since its establishment, the celebration clinic has been an important private healthcare provider for heart disease. Health South-East RHF has an agreement with the Feiring Clinic, and patients in the region have therefore used services at the clinic. The same applies to many patients in the other health regions, but then through the free choice of hospitals. As the representative Sjøli refers to, the outbreak of swine flu has led to exceptional situations in many health establishments. The representative also points to the fact that the Feiring Clinic has free cardiac surgery capacity, and that patients who are undergoing cardiac surgery can be referred to, and receive an offer from, the Celebrating Clinic. If swine flu continues to increase in prevalence, we may find ourselves in a situation where the capacity of planned cardiac surgery is challenged to such an extent that the requirements for proper services are challenged. In such a situation, regional health establishments will continuously assess all available capacities, both in healthcare companies and in private operators, in order to ensure that patients in need of cardiac surgery are properly offered. Regional health businesses have informed me that at the current stage of swine flu, health businesses handle all immediate relief operations without delay. They have further informed me that some patients entering scheduled cardiac surgery may experience the onset of their surgery. If such deferrals are prolonged, I assume that contact is made with other cardiac surgery departments, including the celebration clinic. This is done in medical and professional judgements and within the framework of the requirements of sound specialist health services. I also expect regional health companies to ensure that deferrals of planned heart surgery take place within the framework of the requirement for sound specialist health services, and that patients are well informed about the situation, their rights and alternative solutions. Free hospital choice gives patients the right to choose which hospital to treat. The right to free hospital choice applies to all health establishments and private operators who have agreements with a regional health establishment. The celebration clinic is subject to free hospital choice. Many patients who are going to undergo heart surgery will be so-called rights spaces. This means that they have been given a time limit within which the treatment must be administered at the latest in the light of what must be considered to be medically sound. If this period is exceeded, patients are entitled to an immediate offer of cardiac surgery, e.g. by private actors such as the Feiringklinik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e930	I thank the Council of State for the answer – a constructive and positive response. It is important to ensure that we have good preparedness, and the Council of State itself was concerned that patients have been given a time limit for treatment, and that there may be a breach of this deadline. Patients with heart disease – along with some other disorders – may be in a very special situation. There is a lot of uncertainty about heart surgery, and it is understandable that both patients and relatives have now been concerned, and disappointed, too, that interventions that have been planned for a long time have been put at risk. It's important to have good preparedness, and that we use all the resources in this situation. The health authorities believe – and have been quite clear – that this is just the beginning of the pandemic, so we will probably see that it is not only the area of heart surgery, but also others, that can be affected. Does the Council of State think that readiness to take what had to come is good enough? Will she, if it isn't, in that case make sure that we are in the long run prepared in the various areas, and then in this case that I have taken up, heart surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e939	Our professional authorities do not consider this to be a medical crisis as a result of the pandemic. In addition, vaccination is now in full swing, and more people are now being vaccinated, it is expected to significantly reduce the epidemic. In this context, it is important that most of the risk patients are now vaccinated, and that at least we keep progressing, so that by the middle of this month, hopefully, we will be aiming to have an offer made to all the risk patients. Then, of course, I agree that if there is a postponement of an operation, it is of concern to the individual who is waiting. But what's referenced to me is that such deferrals have been very limited, even though it's been postponed for someone. But, as I said, this is a situation that we follow closely, and I have to say again that I expect health care companies to inform patients that they can get an offer if the situation would lead to major delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e946	I'm very pleased that the Council of State said just recently, that patients need to be informed that they actually have alternative offers, because we know that some regional healthcare companies no longer send their patients to the Feiringklinik because it's too expensive. So there are economic reasons why they're not sent to the Celebrating Clinic. I believe it is unacceptable if this is a matter of a breach of time. This can be serious for the individual. So I hope that the Council of State agrees that economic conditions in this situation should not prevent patients from getting the necessary treatment, but that they can get an offer for surgery elsewhere, such as the Feiring Clinic, which has free capacity for both operations and intensive monitoring capacity. I have understood that the Feiring Clinic is actually part of the preparedness for the swine flu, and then we have to make sure that it is used when it becomes necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e953	As I said, if the situation is to be such that there will be serious delays and one cannot operate within the time limits that are, it is quite clear that health care companies must use the possibilities that exist. After I have been informed, the delays have not been so significant so far, but this is a situation that we are following. It is clear that for those who wait and who do not get the surgery on the day they are proposed, it is demanding. This is a situation that we follow very closely, and I am sure that healthcare companies too are following this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e961	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘The Minister of Health and Health has put in place a separate scheme for the award of the normally prescribed medicine Tamiflu. After this, misunderstandings and difficulties have arisen for patients who would benefit from the scheme. What is the reason why Tamiflu, which has demonstrated a damping effect on swine flu, cannot be sold freely to anyone who wishes to prevent or mitigate a possible course of disease?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e970	It is correct that treatment with Tamiflu and Relenza may shorten the period of disease and reduce the risk of complications of influenza. Treatment should be initiated as early as possible after the first symptoms — no later than 48 hours. There are different reasons why Tamiflu is not sold freely to the population. Tamiflu has been authorised in the EU Central Procedure for the Authorisation of Medicinal Products, including Norway. This means that the medical authorities have assessed the properties of the medicinal product to ensure that it is administered under the supervision of a health professional. In other words, it is not allowed to sell Tamiflu freely, without a prescription, on the basis of the applicable rules. The primary health service is heavily burdened with the implementation of vaccination of the risk groups and the number of infected persons is also increasing. Therefore, it is necessary to relieve the doctors during the pandemic. I therefore chose to grant a temporary entitlement to these medicines to pharmacists in pharmacies. This scheme applies until 1 July 2010, but it may also be cancelled earlier in the event of a situation normalisation. The scheme involves individuals writing a self-declaration on a standard form drawn up by the Directorate of Health. This declaration applies both as a prescription and as a record document. I would therefore like to stress that Tamiflu and Relenza are still prescription drugs. The pharmacists do not make a medical assessment of the severity of the condition. If the pharmacist considers that such a medical assessment is necessary, the patient should be encouraged to contact a regular doctor or a medical professional. Guidance has been developed to help pharmacists ensure proper supply in pharmacy. Those who can get these medicines through the pharmacist are primarily those who are flu-infected. In addition, persons at risk — who are in close contact with persons receiving influenza — may receive these medicinal products as preventive treatment through the pharmaceutics. There may have been an impression in some media that Tamiflu could be supplied without prescription. As a result, pharmacies initially had to reject some non-influenza clients or risk groups. But the response from the pharmacies is that there are now few misunderstandings, and that the pharmacists are handling the new challenge well. Although we in Norway have a large stock of Tamiflu, it is important to ensure that only those patients who really need it have access to the drug. As I see it, the pharmaceutical industry is making sure that we achieve this goal while at the same time reducing the risk of hamstering. The feedback we have received from the pharmacies so far suggests that the availability of the drugs is good, and that the system works as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e987	I thank you for your answer. First of all, I would like to say that both the Right and I think it is very good that the Council of State has put in place this mechanism to ease the pressure on the fixed doctors and, of course, also to improve patients' access to preventive and therapeutic medicine against swine flu. I expect that the Council of State in its work on this has assessed the pandemic course in Norway in general, but also any parallels, or lack of such, to other countries – perhaps especially to our neighbouring countries. My supplementary question then will be: How is the equivalent managed in our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e996	In the case of the medicinal product Tamiflu, I cannot respond to how it is handled in neighbouring countries, although in principle it is a medicinal product that is on prescription. We have – through the board assessing medicinal products – put in place the system that this is on prescription. We're basically bound by it. After what I've heard through the media, I have the impression that Norway is a precursor country in the distribution of Tamiflu in this way, by giving the prescription to the pharmacist.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1003	I thank you again for the answer. It is well known that if this is not the case in the nearest neighbouring countries, the product is sold freely in some countries in Europe. What is the reason why the Council of State assesses the Norwegian situation differently from that of these countries, and will the Council of State continue to assess the proper functioning of the scheme? Is it appropriate, if appropriate, to consider measures to make it even easier for patients to have access to preventive anti-swine flu medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1010	As stated above, through the EU central authorisation procedure for medicinal products, including Norway, it has been decided that Tamiflu should be a medicinal product subject to prescription. My impression is that we gave the prescription to the pharmacist was a good move to give more access to Tamiflu easier. It is particularly important that those who get sick have access to this medicine within 48 hours, as I also mentioned in my post. But it's clear that this is a situation we follow closely, because we're concerned that those affected by the flu will get the best treatment as soon as possible, and we know that this can help. Therefore, this grip is also taken. As with the pharmacy density around the country, it is at least easier to get to the pharmacy than it was before. But we follow the situation with the flu very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1020	From the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘Concession on the planned 420 kV lines between Ørskog and Fardal and Hardanger is currently under appeal. If the powerlines are built according to the concessions, they could have serious environmental consequences. Among other things, the power lines will affect UNESCO's heritage area, unique fjord landscapes that are at the core of the world's leading destinations, and protected areas. In what way and when will the Council of State be involved in these matters to ensure that the environmental aspects are taken care of?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1031	From the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkewold to the Minister for Justice: ‘If an Iranian homosexual seeks asylum in Norway, the foreign authorities will assume that he will be able to live up to his sexual orientation if this occurs within the socio-cultural framework in force in Iran. The framework for what is socially accepted in relation to gay life is very limited and associated with possible criminal reactions in Iran. In practice, Norwegian foreign authorities require that the homosexual conceals his or her orientation. Does the Council of State consider that it is an acceptable requirement to apply to a gay asylum seeker?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1039	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1045	From the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice: ‘The Executive Board for Emergency Communications has received significant comments from the National Audit Board on the management and implementation of the emergency network project. The need for the emergency network is considered to be greater now than when it was adopted. The size cannot be said to have received sufficient information and the information has been late. What concrete measures does the Government implement to limit the adverse effects both in terms of safety and financial terms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1053	This issue has been transferred to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The question falls, however, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1059	From the representative Anders B. Werp to the Minister for Justice: ‘There is considerable and valuable work to be done in criminal matters. How will the Council of State contribute to increasing research on the impact of housing in Norwegian prisons, with special emphasis on what can reduce relapses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1070	From the representative Tor Sigbjørn Aussogn to the Minister for Justice: ‘The prison capacity in the Kristiansand region is so poor that custody prisoners are released against the will of the police and justice, or placed in hotels. Policemen go out in the media with their frustrations. It is a deterrent to both police and judicial authorities, and is dangerous to the justice of the rest of the population. Disposal of prisoners for custody only is unacceptable. What action will the Council of State take actively to create more closed zones and custody sites in the region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1078	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1084	From the representative Trond Helleland to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office: ‘In the context of an overall spatial and transport planning, municipalities experience that the failure of the State to coordinate objectives, instruments and progress hinders their own urban development. Will the new Council of State at the Prime Minister's office address these issues?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1092	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is addressing it. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1098	From the representative Bent Höie to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office: ‘Buys of new life-saving helicopters are continuously deferred and are marked by disagreement between the relevant floors. Will the Council of State at the Office of the Prime Minister ensure coordination of this process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1106	This question has been transferred to the Minister of Justice, who is directly responsible. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1112	From the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office: ‘The establishment of a new emergency number and network is very important for the establishments and social security concerned. Unfortunately, the process is linked to both issues of major conflict between different disciplines and departments, and there is strong backlog. How will the Council of State at the Office of the Prime Minister ensure better coordination of these processes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1120	This question has been transferred to the Minister of Justice, who will address it, to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. However, the question falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1127	For the sake of order, I ask questions even if I have any idea of the answer. It reads as follows: ‘From several teams at the Technical-Natural University of Norway, NTNU, Trondheim is now actively working for a scientific and cultural boycott of Israel. It has now come so far that it is to be dealt with in the NTNU regime. What is the position of the Council of State on such boycotts, and are the state-owned universities and colleges free to adopt this kind of boycott?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1136	Let me state immediately that it is not Norwegian policy to boycott Israelis or, for that matter, the educational institutions of other countries, neither culturally nor academically. The government believes that boikott is not an instrument that corresponds to the characteristic of academic culture – free, research-based exchange of views – regardless of who presents it. In addition, adopting a boycott would violate statutory principles of just academic freedom. Our universities and colleges shall promote academic freedom by following recognised ethical and scientific principles of transparency. Employees themselves have a statutory right to choose their professional contacts and topics and methods for their research. Some researchers choose not to have contact with individual countries, institutions or disciplines, but do not interfere with the institutions. However, the Board of Directors of the institution cannot oblige researchers not to cooperate with researchers from Israel and other countries. With regard to the role of the governments and institutions, it must be entirely legitimate to discuss the issues they find to be important and which in this case have created a great deal of debate and attention. This concerns both the lecture series on the Middle East conflict, which was the starting point for this matter, and the appeals received by the NTNU administration. The professional assessments on which the lecture series is based are the responsibility of NTNU. The appeals, as I said, are addressed to the NTNU Board and will be dealt with as a matter at their meeting on 12 November 2009. I have full confidence that the board will deal with this matter in a professional way, and that they will arrive at a handling of the matter that is consistent with the framework within which the board works.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1147	The Council of State mentions the lecture series that was being played – one might call it – to this board of directors on boycott that is now to be clarified. It's a paradox, I would say, that a grouping that then wants boycott, first has a partially one-sided lecture series, which is going to turn into a boycott. The sum of that is something contradictory in itself. But I'll let that lie. Because there is now also a signing campaign in Tromsø, it is important for me to get the following clear from the Council of State: If the board of NTNU or the board of the University of Tromsø were to adopt an academic and cultural boycott, it actually means, as the Council of State said in its reply, that it is an illegal decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1154	I want to defend, to date, every university and every university's right to organize lectures, seminars, even though many may be critical of the content. They have their full right to do that. The thing is, there's been a long discussion about boycott at several of our colleges. I don't think there's anything wrong with – as the board at NTNU does – having the result of such an action up to discussion in the board. It is true, however, that it is not possible to impose or, for that matter, prohibit some researchers from having contact with researchers from other countries, as I mentioned in my main post. So I'm interpreting academic freedom so that no one interferes with what's going on at the individual level, but the institution can't take a decision that limits or detracts from the individual researcher's ability to contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1161	I appreciate that clarification. Then you might ask yourself why the principal of the University of Trondheim in his position has not made it clear that such a decision would actually be illegal, but I have to leave that. This has received considerable attention, not only in Norway, but throughout Europe. In fact, Jewish organisations have now come to the Norwegian Embassy in Paris to ask for an explanation of what is really happening in Norway. As the Council of State knows, there are several thousand academics with Norwegian Nobel Prize winners who have said that if such a decision were to be taken, it would not only be a boycott of Israeli universities but a boycott of all academics at large and important institutions as well. So my question is whether the Council of State agrees that this case has damaged NTNU's reputation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1170	I don't want to use the word «illegal», but I want to say that the interpretation of academic freedom is such that it is contrary to the principles of academic freedom, and therefore I leave to NTNU to take its decision. I have understood the principal that he is not for an academic boycott. It is also not the chairman of the board, and I am quite sure that the board will adopt a decision on the academic principles that also underpin the board of directors of NTNU's work. I don't think the matter has in any way hurt neither NTNU nor our other universities. I think it's good and brave to discuss, for example, discussions. conflicts in the Middle East. I take a great deal of distance from some of the reactions that have come, for example. from the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Paris, where one compares the principal of the University of Tromsø with the leaders of the Nazis. It's no place to react so strongly, and I believe that with a sensible decision from the NTNU board and in good handling of all the important issues that open discussion can help resolve conflicts, academic freedom here may be a good tool for all of us to get closer to peace and reconciliation also in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1180	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: «Radio Revolt is a traditional local radio in Trondheim with great significance for the cultural life and students of the city. The process of granting a concession has been perceived to be somewhat strange. The award of the concession to Radio Revolt weakens the radio offer in the area. How will the Council of State contribute to the proper maintenance and development of the activities of Radio Revolt?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1189	The Ministry recently decided 46 complaints about the Media Authority’s decision on local radio concessions. Radio Revolt did not receive a concession. I therefore choose to interpret the statement from the representative of Hofstad Helleland so that it is the refusal of the concession that is alleged to weaken the radio offer in Trondheim. Today Radio Revolt has a concession that gives them the right to at least 12 hours of shipment per day. The station was not granted the licence application for 24 hours a day. Based on an overall assessment, the Ministry concluded that the SBS Radio1 application was the strongest. The concession was therefore granted to Radio1. Unfortunately, it is not possible to give to those applying for local radio concession what they want. Radio frequencies are a limited resource, and not everyone who wants can be granted a concession. That's why we have a system of different types of concessions. This provides diversity in radio provision. In Trondheim, there is room for several types of radio operators. At some frequencies there is still capacity for so-called niche radio. Niesjeradio shares broadcasting time with other radios and negotiates with the others on the distribution of broadcasting time. If Radio Revolt wants to stay on the air, and I guess they do, they still have the opportunity to apply for a niche radio concession. So it's possible for Radio Revolt to continue their broadcasts. There will be different frameworks to those provided by the station in the application for daily continuous transmissions, but not necessarily as different as those provided by Radio Revolt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1198	As the Minister of Culture is probably familiar with, the student radio in Trondheim is powered by firessellers and idealists. It is unique in many ways in the European context. Many promising musicians now lose an important exposure channel to their music, and it's very sad. This has been a very unfair process. I think a lot of people agree with that, especially because the former Minister of Culture took over the role of the Media Authority completely. The process has been mildly characterised by urgent work. Since the Media Authority was set aside in this matter, and the Council of State went ahead in the process, I would nevertheless ask again: Is it the case that the Council of State does not see that it is necessary to review the process again? Is there anything the council will do, so that Radio Revolt can still be a radio of which the city is proud?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1205	As I said in my answer, it will still be possible for Radio Revolt to apply for a concession regarding niche radio. With regard to the concessions already granted to 24/7 continuous radio, these are already decided and will not be converted. So this has been a neat process. There are objective criteria for which stations are to be granted a concession and not. What was essential for SBS Radio1 to win this round was that more local material was produced there than was the case for Radio Revolt. In most cases, the Ministry of Media Control followed the recommendations, but there were some who were converted in the ministry. This is fully in line with the instructions available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1212	I don't think the Council of State and I agree on what the process here has been like. I note that it has been inexcusable. That's why I want to ask the Council of State if the Council of State wants to look at the criteria for the concession awards. Is it true that the Council of State is satisfied with today's way of awarding concessions? Is it a satisfactory way, or does the Council of State want to see if there are other ways to solve it that can ensure a better process in the future than what we have witnessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1217	I record that the representative of Hofstad Helleland believes that the department in this case has made a wrong decision, that SBS Radio1 should not have been granted a concession, and that Radio Revolt should have been granted the concession. So on this question, the representative of Hofstad Helleland has a different assessment than the one that was made in the department before I joined. As far as radio concession criteria are concerned, there are different models that can be used. Some have opted for market prices as a criterion. These are not the criteria that the ministry has now taken into account. It has, among other things, local content. It has been to ensure that the general radio shall have the most local coverage possible. And of course, it's not that you'll always agree with an assessment, but we've established criteria that ensure that we're diverse in radio and that there's good coverage of local radio.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1229	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: «In my home country, Hedmark, very many farms are empty and the owners live elsewhere. This may have several reasons. What will the Council of State do to give us light in the windows without coercion, but rather more freedom and housing for the use of the properties and the settlements?"
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1238	Fortunately, many today want to participate in the traditions and living environment of the countryside. The willingness to spend money on cabins and leisure properties shows that. Many people want something more or nothing than the current market can offer evenly over. They want what we can call a lifestyle property, which is more than an empty but less than a farm. They want a flower meadow and a pastry. Someone wants to live permanently, others want it as leisure property. I'm busy helping people to realize their wishes and dreams of a good life in Building Norway, full-time or part-time. If more people are given the opportunity to acquire such lifestyle property, it will be a win-win situation. People get to live the lives they want. Building Norway gets people, capital, ideas, life and activity – just the very many communities are missing. Just being able to offer alternative life environments to cities, I think, is one of the strongest neighbourhoods in the countryside for the future. Rather than bet on pale copies of urban life, the towns need to develop and develop their distinctive character and their strengths. The agricultural property laws do not preclude such a policy. There are tens of thousands of properties so small that they are not covered by these laws. In the last legislative changes adopted earlier this year, the limits were raised so that 19,000 more properties can now be traded freely and are not subject to international law and housing obligations. Many of these properties are unfortunately empty and unused today, as Bredvold also points out. I think this might have a lot of reasons. Partly, it's water retention. The owners do not see the possibility of sale. Potential buyers don't think it's possible to get a purchase. On the one hand, I think there is a lack of organization and planning. Municipalities do not see and develop the potential of many of these properties in a lifestyle market. I think therefore much can be done with more attention and information on this issue. I'm going to make sure that the opportunities and resources of these properties are raised more in the time to come. The reasoning I've given here applies to the smaller properties. For properties of a certain size, I feel that it is widely accepted that there should be certain regulations and obligations under the Property Act. Such properties must be managed in such a way as to restore something to the community in terms of food production, industrial development, cultural landscapes, settlement and living areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1249	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There were not so many measures the Council of State had to come with. It is a fact that there is a bad thing in Hedmark about this, but there is an equally bad thing – and perhaps even worse – in some other states. Overall, it is approx. 35,000 uninhabited farms. Obviously, there's a huge resource that's running out of time. We have to do something with that. I understand that there are different reasons for this, but we have to find the reasons. Many of them are known, and then we have to take action against them. That's where I come into this with a homely mind, among other things. Obviously, this is very important for many, because you don't want to give away your life's work, or the life's work of your family or your ancestors, to a cheap money when you know that you can get a lot more for it. There are many farms that are empty because you get too low a price. The price should reflect what you can earn on a farm. Looking at this with price adjustments is at least one measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1258	What's important here is that there's work going on in the different municipalities to get the opportunities that lie in uninhabited farms and properties. It is also true that there is a very large number that it is possible to translate to create the activity and the homelyness that Bredvold calls for. In the case of holdings and properties above the concession threshold, where the obligation to live or not is concerned, it is approx. 80 pst. of the properties occupied. That's what I mean is that housing, the law of no part, works. It ensures that a large proportion of farms are used. The changes in the rules that we have just made are based on a study from Hedmark where it has been shown that most people who take over an agricultural property decide early whether or not they want to use the property as a place of residence. So early settlement through dwelling gives effect, and it gives permanent residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1267	I thank the Council of State for being a little more complementary and concrete now. We all know that a dwelling obligation applies to so many years and so many years, you're done with it and you might move to a dense place, and then the farm becomes empty. The farm is running, but it's standing empty for people. Among other things, there must be: also look at the legislation so that someone else can live in the farm. It can't be the most important thing that whoever owns the farm lives there, but that the farm is inhabited, as I see it. There are great values that stand there, as I said in my first follow-up question, and it's clear that if you don't get back what you invest in the farm, if you don't get back what you like. costs on the barn or house because we have such maximum prices and price adjustments, the properties are due. I therefore still believe that it is very important that we get rid of this with maximum prices and price regulation, at least that we soften the law. You also have to look at the homely thing, because there's no doubt that penance is something people don't like.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1274	What could be an interesting discussion further in relation to the issue raised here in the question from the representative, Mr Bredvold, is the question of ownership. So it is beyond doubt that farms over a certain size are subject to mandatory housing and price regulation. In the case of compulsory employment, the law applicable to concession law. Then there are many farms and properties below the concession limit that can be freely traded, and here, in my opinion, it is a task for the municipalities and the public to contribute to us getting a greater focus on the possibilities of living and living by using such lifestyle properties. I'm also concerned that we should guarantee ownership, and it's clear that we can't force people to sell their property. We cannot regulate ourselves away from that issue, in addition to the recent regulation of the Stortinget, which relates to housing, compulsory employment, the concession law and the odelslaw, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1284	«The daily trade in Sweden is cheering on the state budget from the government of Stoltenberg. Swedish merchants report lower food prices in the autumn. It has been estimated that border trade will reach over 10 billion in 2009. Within different meat types, it's all 50 pst. cheaper to trade in Sweden than in Norway. What will the Council of State do to help the Norwegian farmers and the meat industry so that they can be competitive against Swedish operators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1291	Border trade is a phenomenon that exists at all borders between countries where differences in wage and price levels make it profitable for consumers to trade the goods cheaper on the other side of the border. Nordmänn frontierhandler in Sweden, Swedes in Denmark, Danes in Germany, Germans in Poland, can be found in Estonia, etc. There is a clear link between the level of wages and costs in each country and the level of prices. To simplify, we can't have Norwegian wages and Bulgarian prices. Currently, the krone price also acts in Sweden more economically than usual. According to the Technical Calculation Committee, the salary level in Norway is above 30 pst. higher than in Sweden when we include indirect costs. Food, and in particular meat, are among the typical border trade products. In the last year, food prices have risen 21⁄2 percentage points more in Norway than in Sweden, and in Sweden there is a certain reduction in price. However, since the beginning of the international food crisis in the summer of 2007, prices have increased slightly more in Sweden than in Norway. Therefore, the development of food prices in isolation is not a main reason for us to record an increase in border trade. Nevertheless, we know that the price difference is high on the typical border trade goods, and that the prices of some of them are cheaper at the border than elsewhere in Sweden. I am, of course, concerned with limiting the trade leakage and that Norwegian operators should be able to operate the domestic market. But border trade is about more than meat, among other things. on alcohol and tobacco and many other consumables and services. That is why an economic policy that contributes to good competitiveness is, in general, important, and it is fortunately widely agreed that we should have active agriculture across the country in Norway. It requires profitability at all stages, including at the farmer's. Otherwise, much more of the food had to be traded abroad, and the activity in Norwegian villages would actually be lower. We have also chosen tobacco and alcohol policy because we believe it is a better public health policy, despite the fact that it contributes to a certain border trade. There are reasons to argue that countries with high wage levels and specific policy objectives are likely to have to live with a certain level of cross-border trade. However, the risk of trade leakage will always be an important element in balancing cross-cutting considerations in policy-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1307	Norwegian agriculture is regulated to the minimum detail. We also have a dramatic increase in border trade that could cost us 10,000 jobs. There have never been more abandoned farms in this country than now. At the border with Sweden at Narvik in the north, there is a lot of construction activity. Shops have been built there, but you haven't finished opening the store until you start expanding it to twice – because it's a boom of border trade in meat. It's also coming from the Lofoten. People drive up to 20-25 miles, and yet they think they have a profit on the border trade. So my question to the Minister is: does the Council of State not see that the policy being pursued today is completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1314	What is important is that we have an economic policy in Norway, a charging policy, which has purposes other than pure border trade, or purposes other than pure agricultural purposes. With regard to the statement that more farms are being closed down in Norway now than in the past, it is wrong. We have reversed this trend, and it shows applications for production subsidies in the last year. What is the big point, I think, is that, with the Norwegian level of costs and our relationship with food production, there will be dramatic consequences – even greater consequences – if a unilateral focus on the goal of reducing border trade, which is clearly the subject of Slavery. We had to, as the Progress Party seems to want, put away many of the social tasks of agriculture, such as active agriculture with a varied structure of use across the country, and pursued a one-dimensional structuralisation policy, with strong centralisation and job losses as a result. That would be the result if we were to implement the Träldal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1323	Then we would probably agree to Dovre's fall. If we look at the Consumer Council's report, they write among others. a package of bacon costs three times more in Norway than in Sweden. In Norway there are many slaughterhouses, and in Sweden and Denmark there are a few large ones. Norwegian pig farms have concessions and can have a maximum of 2,100 slaughter piglets, while in Sweden and other countries there are no borders. This makes Norwegian slaughterhouses small, they are expensive, and they cannot become competitive. A new question to the Minister: does the Council of State agree that the policy pursued today helps to fathom the bacon prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1332	I don't think I'm going to comment on the bacon prices in particular, but I think, in a sense, that the representative servitude here is releasing the cats out of the bag. Border trade is not the problem – it is the structure we have in Norwegian agriculture, it is the number of slaughterhouses, it is the number of jobs, it is the number of farms. It is the distributed production we have, which is, of course, more expensive than industrial production, which we have in the EU, for example, and in our neighbouring countries. It is clear that here there is a diametrically different starting point between the Government's policy and the Progress Party's policy. The government wants to continue agriculture throughout the country. We want a structural policy that ensures that we use grazing resources in the West and North Norway. We do not want a one-dimensional agricultural policy which, in essence, has the only result – as the Progress Party probably wants – that we reduce Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1342	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Renewal and Church Affairs: ‘The disposal of properties of obvious value by state buildings to the public is a challenge. Former Staten Gartnerskole Judiciary in Aust-Agder is such an example. State buildings were approved by a pilot project on the Judiciary Museum to look at a long-term strategy for the disposal of such properties. The project has been going on for several years. The property is now suddenly offered for sale in the market. Where did the project and the long-term strategy go, and what can the Council of State now do to ensure the land of the property to the public?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1351	State buildings manage a wide range of properties of great value to the public. It's not often state buildings dispose of such properties. It is precisely the importance of the property for the community that makes most remain in the country's ownership. Out-of-use buildings are used in a fast way. Therefore, in order to preserve cultural heritage, state-building works on the basis of the principle that active and adapted use, combined with good professional management, also provides the best protection. The strategy sets out two main principles for the development of cultural-historical properties: One includes properties not necessarily owned by the State. First, it is equally fully investigated whether the State can use the properties for some purpose. If none of these are available, the property may be sold once the necessary protective considerations have been met, e.g.: in the case of a protection notice issued by the Riksantikvaren. The other includes properties that are or may be important for the country to own. Then State Building will first seek to find state tenants. If no one reports their interest, State Building may go further and seek other public partners, including, where appropriate, private stakeholders. Once development opportunities have been identified, the necessary measures may be put in place. The State will then be able to sit as owner and cooperate with others on the use of the building stock. In the case of the Judgment Moment, I would like to make it clear that the property has not been offered for sale. The status is that State Building has commissioned the Riksantikvaret to assess the value of the protection, so that it can be notified of any rescue for major or minor parts of the property. Any disposal process may only be initiated once the necessary economic and antiquarian assessments have been made. It is assumed to be completed after the New Year. The background to the assessment of disposal is that there is no other State interest in the property and that no other tenants have yet been found. After the University of Agder announced its intention to move in 2006, State Building has carried out two studies assessing other uses, without any concrete results being achieved. In order to ensure public access to the Judiciary in the future, State Building has a dialogue with the Directorate for Nature Management, which assesses whether parts of the property are to be classified as a public open-air area. In this case, responsibility for these areas will be transferred to DN. It can then be relevant to invite Grimstad municipality to a scheme where the municipality is responsible for the care and operation of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1366	It is enough that the Council of State and the undersigned have a slightly different reality of the result of the work that has been done, because I know of several specific stakeholders who are interested in using the area and have activity in the area, and I find it strange that it is stated that one has not found such solutions. Then it's true, as the Council of State says, that the property has not yet been put out for sale, but it was announced in the media on 16 October that it would happen. What we're looking at is that all the things that you're supposed to figure out in the pilot project – new models to measure value creation and results, new forms of cooperation internally and externally and future strategy to take care of such properties – are now suddenly abandoned. Does the State Council consider the pilot project to have been successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1373	I am aware that several investigations and assessments have been carried out on how to use the Doomsmoen. There are companies that have been interested in using the site in a combination of nutrition and business related to ecological principles, with a hotel capacity integrated into the concept, and there has also been a group that has wanted to establish higher education activities on the property. I note that these negotiations have not been reached. I can also inform you that yesterday I received a letter from the municipality of Grimstad, which wants to take over the property. Of course, it will be assessed in my department. Because of the short deadline after the letter has arrived, of course we have not been able to deal with it until today, but of course I will do so in a thorough manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1380	I record that I am not receiving a response to the outcome of the pilot project, and I can follow up with the Council of State in other ways, because it is an exciting project for the whole of State Building and for the future treatment of such properties. My last follow-up goes on exactly what was now mentioned. A specific enquiry has now been made from the municipality of Grimstad, which was told that this is being put out for sale in the paper in October. Now they have said that they would like to be in a concrete position to take care of the property further, and want a meeting with the Council of State and the implicated parties before the New Year to see how the public can still own. Will the Council of State now take active action to follow up that letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1387	My department will of course deal with the enquiry we have received from the municipality of Grimstad. Then I can also inform you that I have been informed by Statsbyggen that it was a meeting with the municipality of Grimstad, by the rapporteur, councillor and cultural director, on 27 February 2009. Then the municipality was informed of the two possible solutions that existed, that it was either possible to continue to rent or sell. So you are completely surprised at the turn the matter has now taken, where state buildings now go out and ask the Riksantikvaren to provide assessments related to the protection status of the building, I do not understand. I think that makes sense. That's an important prerequisite when you're going to go further. I also believe that it makes sense that we have contacted DN in order to secure the open air areas. Then, of course, I have meetings and will set up for those who want to meet with the Council of State. This also applies to the municipality of Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1397	From the representative Svein Fleet to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The Council of State has, on several occasions, made a profit-making settlement with that part of the fiscal policy which taxes the operating resources of an enterprise through the taxes on wealth. Not least in fisheries and farming, with many small actors, the increase in the taxation of operating resources, as we have seen in recent years, leads to increased job insecurity. Can we assume that the Council of State will continue to assert its well-founded view of this tax even within the government of which she is a member?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1405	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1411	This question, from the representative of Kent Gudmundsen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal and Church Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1414	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Renewal and Church in the absence of the Minister of Fisheries and Coast: ‘The breeding environment in South Troms has been restricted in its activities due to the serious ILA epidemic, Infectious salmon anaemia, which occurred one year ago. The Ministry has now assumed that this area does not have environmental sustainability to participate in the capacity increase of 5 pst. which the rest of the industry can buy, because of that case by ILA. What is the relationship between environmental sustainability and the ILA epidemic that was one year ago?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1423	In preparation for the 2010 round of allocations for salmon and trout, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast asked the Ministry of Fisheries to draw up an overview of geographical areas considered to be more and less relevant for the expansion of the breeding establishment. The work was to be carried out in cooperation with the Food Authority, the Institute for Marine Research and the Veterinary Institute. The Directorate for Nature Management and State Pollution Control should also contribute. The Ministry asked the trade unions to link their assessments to the Government's strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry, where farmed fish disease is one of five focus areas. The aim of the strategy is: ‘Illness in farming does not have a lasting effect on wild fish and, as far as possible, farmed fish grow up to be slaughtered with minimal medical use’. In September 2009, the Directorate of Fisheries provided a list of areas where, on the basis of the advice of the various trade unions, capacity-enhancement was not considered environmentally sound. In its input, the Food Safety Authority recommended that capacity increase should not take place in areas where active disease control is practised. One area where this is particularly relevant is the Astafjord area in South Troms, where the ILA is controlled. In this area, the Food Safety Authority has implemented control measures that will restrict the release of fish in 2010. In view of the sustainability strategy objective, where disease is one of the main focus areas, and the fight against ILA, the Government has exempted the South-Troms area from capacity expansion in 2010; that is the explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1434	I record that there has been a closed process compared to the professional assessments of closing the selected area for increased activity or new activity. Does the Council of State see that it could clearly be positive that there was an open professional analysis of this, since there is no research or evidence of an exact direct link between what the Government is basing, namely environmental sustainability, and disease cases, as has been the case here? Can the Council of State give a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1439	It is important for the Government that we put in place measures to combat salmon and disease on fish. The measures taken are, I believe, sound on the basis of the technical advice received by the Government from its professional bodies. Then it's like you've closed the areas now on the basis of a temporary regulation. A permanent regulation shall enter into force and, of course, it will be possible for everyone to make representations to the current regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1446	I note that there is still no evidence that there is a link between environmental sustainability and the course of disease that the Government here points out to combat. I also think it is important to be very clear in a time limit attached to the new regulation, so that the industry in any case, despite the government's temporary position, has predictability. However, it is regrettable to note, when there is no direct link, that the Government is adding to a practice where one is guilty until the opposite is proven, i.e. that there are restrictions for a few operators in the industry, without any direct connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1453	I'll record the representative's position on this. For the Government, it is important that we have sustainable management in our fisheries areas. There are several areas that are also subject to restrictions. I also refer, as I said, to the regulation that is now to come into force, which will regulate how the work is to be done in accordance with the temporary regulation that is now in force. And I believe that the industry and others will have good opportunities to make representations in this regulatory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1461	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘The Court of Auditors has now presented a report showing that child protection falls into nine out of ten cases. In the report, the Riksrevision shows that the long treatment period in the counties has serious consequences for the children concerned. Is the Council of State in agreement with the criticism of the Riksrevision, and what will the Council of State do to correct this serious criticism and ensure that the time of proceedings is not exceeded?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1475	It is very unfortunate when children do not get their affairs settled quickly in the counties, and therefore I take the criticism from the Riksrevision very seriously. I am not satisfied that we do not reach the goal of four weeks of treatment, and that kids have to wait so long for a decision. We know that the time aspect of these matters is absolutely crucial, and it is stated in the Child Protection Act that young people should receive the necessary help in a timely manner. On 1 January 2007, new rules of procedure for the county council members entered into force. The aim of the new rules was primarily to facilitate a coherent and appropriate procedure. One important objective was to contribute to simplification and efficiency. The dossiers shall be processed as soon as possible and, if possible, within four weeks. When examining these new rules of procedure, the Stortinget supported the Ministry's proposal not to introduce an absolute deadline. Then the Riksrevision has looked at the time of proceedings in proceedings with the negotiating meeting, and it is important to say that there is one of several forms of treatment in the counties. I would like to make it clear that they have a wider scope in their work and have cases with statutory deadlines other than those set out in the report to which the representative refers. For example, the respondents shall conduct, where possible, legal checks on emergency decisions within 48 hours and shall deal with appeals against emergency decisions within one week. It is important to say, I also think, that the council members largely stay within the deadlines in these matters. But when that is said, I believe that the conditions referred to by the Riksrevision are serious. There has been a strong growth in incoming cases for treatment in recent years. From 2005 to 2008, the number of cases for treatment increased by 32 pst, a growth of almost 10 pst. annual. Different measures to meet this growth have been put in place, including: there has been a strengthening in the number of county leadership homes, from 38 to 52 in the period 2005 to 2008. It is also announced in the budget of the Ministry that various measures are being taken to give organisations a promise, which we believe can help to further reduce the length of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1486	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was good to hear that he was so ready that he would clean this up. Now I know that this is a matter that the Storting will debate several times, because this is a matter that comes from the Riksrevision, but I am still concerned when the Council of State in its reply only refers to several actions that have been taken before. In 2007, these members were given new posts, but the ministry has not followed up on this. Then the Council of State also shows that there has been a sharp increase in the number of cases received, and that is the case. But there are children – the weakest among us – who suffer from this, when the treatment period is held for only one in ten. This shows that it is a systemic crisis. Even the committee leader, Gunn Karin Gjul, from the Workers' Party, now hopes that the new Council of State – when the other four have not made it – will fold up their sleeves and really do something. I would like to ask the Council of State: what concrete measures is this Council of State going to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1497	When I pointed out what I was doing, it was because I wanted to challenge some of the premises in the Horne representative's question, that child protection is falling apart, and that the department doesn't do anything. Child protection is doing a good job, but it's had a huge increase in the number of things. The Ministry has put in place measures. So even though the capacity has been expanded, the number of cases has also been expanded. Having said that, I fully agree with the representative Horne, and I take the challenge. I'll fold up my sleeves and start action. We have already announced something in the budget. It goes on the establishment of a central unit for the councillors, the appointment of a director, which I think will give us a more operational and comprehensive responsibility for the denominators. Then, of course, our challenge is to translate it into measures to reduce the processing time. Because the deadlines we've set, only kept in one of the ten cases, are too bad, I agree, and we have to go thoroughly into how we can do something about it. Then I invite the representative and others to dialogue on how we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1504	The children in need of help depend entirely on the functioning of these subjects. Today, we hear a lot of criticism that they're not unhindered, that they're made up of professionals and there's too little to play with. Now the Council of State said that he wanted a dialogue with the Progress Party, and then I would like to make a proposal; the Progress Party has in recent years proposed a new arrangement for these states, that we should put them down and bring them to justice. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will he address this, and look at the scheme in view of a different composition, where one gets more laymen into the counties, or go as far as the Progress Party wants, to put down the council members and get them into the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1511	I am absolutely sure that we will have ample opportunity to discuss the concrete proposals that I believe the representative will come along with. I have to answer that, and we can then discuss it. I'm a little busy doing one thing at a time, getting to the changes that are announced in the budget, which we think are going to have something to say for the management of the denominators, and for the students' ability to do the job they're set to do. I also think it is important to say that when we have this discussion, we should not have a one-sided focus on time. The most important thing is that there is quality in what the denominators do. I am absolutely sure that the representative agrees with me that we need to find the right balance between efficiency and quality, so that the requirements for efficiency do not go at the expense of professionally thorough and sound assessments on which each decision is based – precisely because these are profound questions in the lives of children and young people that we must take with the utmost care. But I appreciate that the question is taken up, and we will probably have the opportunity to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1518	Then there's case no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1530	There is no record.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1534	The representative, Mrs Solberg, has earlier announced in the meeting that she wishes to ask for the floor at the end of the meeting in line with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure, and is given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1540	The reason why I am asking for the floor today is the long drop-out list from state councils to today's Question Time. I don't think that's acceptable. I believe it is quite obvious that a government council that is in the country has a meeting obligation in the Stortinget and should meet in the Questionnaire. This will be particularly special because, in connection with some of the questions asked by representatives from the Right, one of the Council offices has also received feedback that it may be difficult to meet before December. Then my question to the Presidency about the Presidency will be to make sure that government councils' meeting obligations are strengthened to answer in the Questionnaire, and to ensure that we get a shorter maturity list. Today is 40 pst. of the questions raised, suspended because of the absence of state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-11.ana.ud2035e1547	The President can comment on this immediately, as the Presidency already had a discussion on the same topic after last Wednesday's Question Time, and that at our Presidency meeting on 5 November we found reason to give a reminder to the Prime Minister's office just about the question that the representative raises. We have done so in the form of a letter, which has actually been sent today – as said it was discussed last Thursday – where we point out of course that both the magnificence and the government should show flexibility, and that sometimes it may be difficult to meet, but that the general rule must be that questions should be answered as quickly as possible. In the same letter, we have allowed ourselves to remember that it is important that the Councils of State are in the Storting in good time, so that one might not interrupt the meeting to wait for the councils on their way here. I understand that the intention of the representative's theme has been safeguarded by the Presidency's consideration of the matter. It's nodding from the representative. Others have not requested the floor in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure. The meeting of the day has thus been cancelled.
