ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e41	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e57	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e64	In Ot.prp. No 81 for 2008-2009, proposed amendments to the Law of 4 December 1992 No. 127 on broadcasting – broadcasting law. The proposal includes a basis for the prior approval of NRK’s new media services, the prohibition of advertising on NRK’s text-tv pages, the restriction of the Ministry’s powers of instruction to the media in certain cases, amendments to the rules on broadcasting on broadcasting networks and the basis for the control of subscription registers against NRK’s register of licensee. Except for a few points, there is a broad consensus on the content of the proposition. One aspect of which there is some disagreement is regarding the supervision of NRK's public broadcasting missions, where the minority in the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believes that it is important to have an ongoing evaluation of the scheme. We would like to point out here that it must be assumed that there is a high level of professionalism in the work done by the Media Regulatory Board and that there may be grounds for asking questions in this field. The background to our questioning in this field is that the supervisory board has dealt with local radio station concessions where the Council of State Giske has needed to intervene and that the Council of State has recently asked for new investigations on channel selection, as he did in VG 7 May. The most obvious difference between the position and the opposition in this case is with regard to the verification of the subscription registers against the NRK's register of licensee. The Ministry proposes that the NRK be given the right to obtain information from the customer registers of television content providers and to check the information obtained against the licence register. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left opposes this amendment and believes that with its collection device, the NRK already has a very effective means of collecting licences. Today, the NRK checks its licence register for information obtained from dealers and the central public register data. We, who are in a minority, believe that there is already too much monitoring and interconnection of data registers and suspicion of otherwise law-abiding Norwegian citizens, and that further interconnection of data registers is not compatible with what we want us to have in the law. It would then also be natural for these parties to vote against new § 8-5 – which brings me to the setting and a typing error on page 4 of the setting, first column, about the middle of the page, where reference is made to new § 8-5 in a column on the responsibility of the Media Authority for the practical implementation of prior approval. The correct paragraph is not 8-5, but 6-1a, as shown in the last page of the setting. § 8-5 is the paragraph I mentioned earlier in my post, concerning information about customer relationships. So here's a mistake in the notes. I refer to the Committee's position and the comments made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e79	We will then be able to correct the error that the rapporteur pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e82	As the rapporteur said, with the exception of a few points in this position, there is a broad consensus in the Committee. However, I see it necessary to make some comments on the proposal that the NRK should be given the opportunity to obtain information from the customer registers to the pay-TV providers. We who represent the government parties are concerned that the NRK must be given effective means of collecting the licensees. Today, it is estimated that the number of thieves is about the same. 11 pst. This indicates that the obligation to report to the television dealers and information from the public register is not good enough. We think it's a proportionally large group of TV viewers who aren't being caught by these systems. On the other hand, a combination of the public register, retailers’ lists and pay-TV information will provide a better and more comprehensive picture of who has a TV. In this way, the NRK is more able to capture those who are not currently paying the broadcasting licence. It's obvious that this will serve both the NRK and the offer they can make, and also us as license-payers by enabling us to get a better program offer, and that there will be more to share the licence costs with. The opposition and several hearing bodies have been concerned about privacy. Here I would like to point out that there is a clear regulatory framework for dealing with this type of information through the Data Protection Act. In addition, there will be a limited set of information required by the NRK and there will be clear limitations on its use by the NRK. In addition, the rules on professional secrecy laid down in the NRC Administrative Act apply when the company carries out tasks on behalf of the public, as in this case in the case of levying. The strict indication of the purposes for which this information is to be used is also a certainty that competition problems should not arise, for which some of the hearing bodies have been concerned. The NRK may only use the information in the licence collection and at all events not in its other activities as broadcaster or joint owner of the pay-TV broadcaster. Only NRK licensing departments have the possibility of accessing information from pay-TV providers, and there is a clear requirement that the NRK has procedures to ensure that this is done. The Workers' Party and the other government parties believe that the best way to ensure that the NRC will continue to be a good public broadcaster in the future is through the licensing system. That's why it's important that we have a system that ensures everyone's contribution, and no one's wondering. In this way, we ensure the best legitimacy for the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e95	I am pleased that the majority in the Grand Duchy subscribes to the proposals for amendments to the Broadcasting Act. The changes are a follow-up to the measures we proposed in St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future. The main proposals in the proposal concern NRK. We should be glad that the NRK is strong among Norwegian TV viewers and radio listeners. Compared to similar public broadcasters in other countries, the NRC has a unique position in people’s awareness. The population has great confidence in the editorial quality of the NRK – according to the 2008 NRK profile survey, 95 pst. by the population that NRK has credible news, information and documentaries programmes. An important aspect of the NRK is that it's an advertisement-free broadcaster. The State Institute for Consumer Research, SIFO, has conducted studies showing that close to 80 pst. the population is annoyed by television advertising. It gives the NRK the freedom to program its offer without scoring to what generates the most possible ad crowns. It is therefore important that NRK’s television offer continues to constitute an advertising-free zone. This bill also makes NRK’s text TV part of the advertising-free zone. ESA has asked Norway to set up an authorisation system to ensure that the services NRK funds through its licence revenues are part of the public broadcasting mission. Similar schemes already exist in some countries, for example: The United Kingdom, and likely to be introduced in most EEA countries in a few years. Once we have proposed such an authorisation scheme, it is not only because ESA has asked for it, but also because it makes sense. It is important that the NRC carry out the social mission they have received on behalf of the community. An approval scheme for NRK's new media services gives us a check on what the license is actually used for. Only services which meet democratic, social and cultural needs and which add added value to Media-Norway shall be recognised. In addition, the scheme will also include an assessment of how a new NRK service will affect competition in the market. NRK's commercial competitors have been busy doing just that. This should not become a bureaucratic mechanism limiting NRK’s statutory editorial independence or hampering NRK’s capacity for innovation. The NRK must be able to be ahead of the technology and offer side, in order for the NRK to have an interesting offer for younger users. 16- to 19-year-olds spend more time online than on TV. Today, the NRK has its own YouTube portal and uses BitTorrent technology to display applications online, and this is popular, especially among young viewers. Administrations must not create mechanisms that impede the dynamic development of both programme provision and the recovery of technological opportunities by NRK. The system of prior authorisation will therefore limit itself to important new services. In addition, we will establish procedural rules to ensure that the assessment itself can be made quickly. The size has decided that anyone who has a TV should pay a license. Regrettably, some owners of television receivers do not pay the licence. I am concerned that we have effective means of ensuring that people pay the license. By providing the NRK's licensing department with access to the customer registers of the pay-TV companies, the NRK itself expects that the collection can be made more effective. I am of course concerned that this is done in a way that respects privacy. Here I think we have come up with good solutions. First of all, only the name and address are exchanged. In addition, there are strict requirements for how and who in the NRC access to the information. The NRK is already subject to such strict rules and has good experience in doing so. I am pleased that the Committee joins in the proposals for amendments to the Broadcasting Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e126	The Odelsting should then vote over the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e163	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e172	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e287	It is first voted over the settings in new § 8-5. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e300	So it goes over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e309	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e318	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03-lower.ana.ud736e330	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
