ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e47	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e56	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the design of the new Building Act – or the building part of the Planning and Building Act. There has been a slightly longer process in the committee than the committee initially set up, but it has also resulted in a good deal of – in fact significant – changes, both in the wording of the law and in the leadership of the law. I think if you look back at this magnification period, a quick person can establish that of the laws submitted to treatment in Odelstinget, this is the law where most changes have taken place, both in the paragraphs of the law and in the leaders of the law. This suggests that there has been a constructive process between position and opposition in the Committee, and it promises well. This is an important law, and a law that affects many. It affects one of the most important industries in the country. There is also a law that is influenced by the fact that many of the decisions come after the Odelstinge treatment, that is, in the preparation of the regulations. Therefore, the Committee has spent a great deal of time discussing the various comments, because the comments will lead to the regulations to be drawn up in retrospect. I will quickly review those areas where there have been changes on which there is a broad consensus in the Committee, and I will highlight those areas where there are minorities and disagreements in the Committee. The Committee has agreed to establish an extended exemption for municipalities in the building section. Since there is now a common paragraph relating to the exemption, namely Section 19-2 of the planning part of the Act, where there was a significant intensification of the exemption, the Committee has chosen to base a different exemption option in the building section. In its comments, the Committee makes it clear that the quite major change that is being made in the way agricultural structures are to be dealt with in purely legal terms under this law should not, however, mean that it is really a major change in the way agriculture can be constructed, but that one should actually experience that it is about the same rules as today and that the new rules are to be applied mainly in the case of large and complex buildings. The Committee is also unanimous in its view that it is important for the Government to start work on obtaining the specific laws in accordance with the Building Act. There is also no doubt that the Committee wishes to establish a system in which developers can relate to one body, namely the municipality, and that it is the responsibility of the municipality, if necessary, to connect to others, such as the municipality. Labour inspectorate, in connection with the handling of construction materials. Builders can then deal with one instance with one set of deadlines, and the municipality has, as I said, responsibility for what is happening behind the procedure. The Committee also agrees to set a period of 12 weeks for the county councillors to deal with complaints under the Planning and Building Act. There will be a significant improvement in relation to today and will also be felt fairly by those affected by complaints. The Committee is also committed to strengthening efforts to improve indoor climate, especially in schools and kindergartens. The Committee points out that the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations have made a significant effort to develop clear and simple criteria for indoor climate measurement. These are criteria that they have used to develop some of the country’s best expertise. In further work on the follow-up to this, the Committee would like to see the competence also involved in the preparation of regulations which are relevant in this field. We also extend the possibility for municipalities to grant a total or partial exemption from the obligation to provide connection to district heating systems, for example. where the alternatives are more environmentally and cost-effective in the context. This is because we trust that municipalities can handle this, and the driving force of municipalities will initially be the same as the aim of the Stortinge, namely the greater use of district heating in Norway. But we just want this little adjustment to ensure that binding requirements are not to prevent what is the cause of the wish for district heating, namely better environmental solutions. We have also been committed to strengthening the universal design requirement in a number of areas. Apart from what goes on in the control activities of construction works, what is contained in this law relates to universal design, is the greatest change compared to the past. There is reason to say that the law that was passed was very good as a follow-up to the new Discrimination Act in ensuring that the universal design requirement became part of the purpose of the law, and that it is also linked to the main solution in the building. There is reason to recall that the Building Law Committee had continued the old approach to universal design by requiring accessibility. But demanding availability is something other than saying that the main solution should be universally designed. It is only possible to have availability, for example: through a ramp, through a rear door, while universal design means that the main solution, the main entrance, must be universal, for all. This has strengthened the Committee. The biggest change that has occurred in the law in my opinion, which the Committee unanimously supports, is that the universal design requirement should also apply to new work structures. It will be a very important contribution to ensuring a working life for all, and for one to achieve the objectives of an inclusive working life, that all new work buildings in the future, with the exceptions of course, will be universally designed. Although there is a difference between majority and minority, at least an overall committee believes that during 2010, the Government will come up with an overall plan to introduce requirements for existing public buildings to be universally designed. In the area of universal design, a good law has become even better, and I think an overall committee can be proud of that. The areas of disagreement between the majority and the minority are particularly related to the control system. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have a completely different approach to this issue, by wanting to focus on auditing of companies, and use independent control in specific cases. This is such a major change in the whole arrangement of the law that the most tidy thing was to suggest that the law was sent back and developed on the basis of the new way of thinking. Although the distance may not be that large, and that it may seem dramatic to suggest sending the law back, it would promote alternative suggestions for each paragraph to capture this, in our view, would have been an inappropriate way for Odelstinget to treat it, when all the distance is not greater than it is. That is also the reason for this proposal. What is also contained is that the minority proposes directly that municipalities should have the opportunity to handle construction applications related to work buildings, and that, as such, it is the municipality that is responsible for coordinating this with the Labour Inspectorate, if any. The minority also suggests that municipalities still have the possibility to grant a temporary authorisation for use, rather than what the Government proposes, which in reality means that many new dwellings in Norway can be left unused but finished for a period of three weeks before they can be put into service. It'll be dramatic both for those who build out, and not least for those who own the buildings, who have to rely on building loans for so much longer. The other area in which there is disagreement is related to energy issues in existing buildings. The minority there wants to rely on the same concept as in the Energy Act and, in reality, use the same system that is now being used in relation to the certification of buildings. We believe that this is a less bureaucratic way, a more correct way to approach this question. I'm taking up the suggestions that the right hand side is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e90	The representative Bent Höie has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e95	The rapporteur, Mr Höie, explained, is the particular control system we are looking at differently. That's why it's natural to address my question to Höie at that point. The right considers that the audit obligation for all undertakings is a better way to go than the wider use of independent control, including the use of mandatory independent control. Does the Right really think that this is enough to bring up the quality of Norwegian construction in the future? And isn't Right concerned that their solution will involve a lot of bureaucracy and high costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e102	If that was the only proposal that the Right had in this area, the concern of the representative Hagebakken would have been a cause for concern. However, there is reason to point out that the Right also has a number of proposals that involve the use of independent control in limited cases. We also have a proposal to establish the Construction Cost Programme as a permanent competence centre for the construction industry, and we have a proposal to put in place a system of a type of service hangar linked to buildings that more document the development of the quality of the buildings along the way. What is our concern about the proposals of the government parties for mandatory independent control of all measures is that this will have a huge impact. It shows, not least, the letter from the municipal minister to the Christian People's Party group, where one draws out wet rooms as an example of measures to be controlled. One can then imagine the costs and red tape that would involve controlling all new wet rooms in Norway along the way in the construction process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e109	I want to follow up on this with independent control. My question to the representative Höie is: does the Right value of having an independent control? Of course, internal control is important, but in order to ensure that things are what you've been thinking, and that there's no distortion of competition with regard to circumvention of the legislation, doesn't Right see that it's a value to have independent control?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e114	The right sees an independent control value as the last countermeasure. The first measure to prevent errors is the competence of the industry. We're not going to be able to get out of mistakes in the construction industry without increasing the overall internal competence of the companies. If the focus is on checking the errors after the errors have occurred, we think we're going to use the resources, and very large resources, at the wrong end of the action chain. That is also the background to our proposal. In addition, one must also be aware that in the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party there is full freedom for municipalities to require independent control in those cases, for example. has experience that a company has not done a good enough job in a previous case. It will be a very strong whip to be able to use on companies that do not behave properly and do not have control of their systems, which we believe would be a better tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e121	I will praise Right for being a very good case handler in this case. Nevertheless, I would like to refer to the ‘delivered energy’ on which the right is based. They refer to the sum of energy supplied over the building's system, i.e. its efficiency, to meet the total energy needs of the building, including system losses and the need for purchased energy. Therefore, focus can be shifted from building buildings with good energy qualities to buildings that do not necessarily ensure a permanent lower energy use. The right-hand proposal implies that a poorly insulated building can compensate for the heat demand of the heat pump so that the need for the construction of the purchased energy is lowered even if the energy demand for heating is still the same. Does not the Right believe that the Planning and Building Act should have a requirement for a sound energy use that ensures a good building body that is well isolated in the construction of new buildings, instead of looking at the efficiency of the chosen energy system in the house?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e128	I perceive that what Brustad Moe referred to here was related to existing buildings, while the purpose of the Building Act is not to regulate the energy use of existing buildings, but in new buildings. This implies, for example: the requirements that will now be put in place as a follow-up to Odelsting’s decision on new energy law would mean that the Right-wing Government could have imposed a high level of quality and content in relation to the energy supplied, such as: would involve a ban on the use of oil fires in new constructions, as a follow-up to the climate agreement. The problem with the approach adopted by the majority today is that one chooses to regulate and provide regulatory support with a background in energy sources. This means that you can ban e.g. fossil fuel, which may prohibit electricity. There is one way in which this approach will prevent technologically sound development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e139	The basis for the examination of this case today is thorough investigations, including: two investigations by the Committee on Building Law, which were taken down under the previous government. Whereas, during the hearings of the Committees of the European Parliament and of the Council, there were several observations and views taken into account by the Committee in the examination of this matter; I am pleased that the committee agrees on many important points in the vote, and I am particularly pleased with the common positions we have on universal design. It makes the law stand over time. I agree with Höie that a good law through our treatment has become even better. From the beginning of the process, we in the government parties here in Stortinget have signaled that we wanted constructive dialogue with the opposition. The opposition has also been involved in the same, that is, good dialogue. The Committee has cooperated well in the drafting process. I would also like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office for the work he has done. This has been a fairly comprehensive matter to work with, where it has been important to interact all along in order to achieve the best possible result. There is a lot of good quality construction in Norway by very serious professionals in both small and large companies. I think it's important to underline it. But not everyone is just as serious and careful about the job being done. Competence varies, too. Every year, building mistakes are made that cost society billions of dollars. It is estimated that the annual cost of making mistakes is between 12 and 15 billion kroner – a great deal of money! For example, behind these figures, we're looking at: many individuals and families who are hit by bad craftsmanship from unprofessional actors and perhaps get the housing dream destroyed. The recognition that self-checking has worked too poorly suggests to the Government that independent control be mandatory in the case of construction measures where faults and damage have a significant impact. The majority of the Committee endorses this proposal. There are too many construction faults that cost both society and individuals large amounts of money every year. The objective of independent control is to ensure better quality of construction. It is pointed out by those who are against independent control that it is expensive and slowing down the construction processes. But independent control will undoubtedly contribute to less errors and shortcomings, and then there is money, and probably a lot of money, saved. In addition, I think most people will give good quality to a building with a life-cycle perspective rather than a somewhat faster construction time and more problems in retrospect. With good construction process and well-adapted and organised control, it also does not have to take longer to build with good quality. And again, we simply cannot continue as we are now – with so many errors and shortcomings! I would also like to comment on what Bent Höie was in the line change, that it would be extensive to check all bathrooms, among other things. I would like to stress that the refurbishment and rehabilitation of bathrooms are not covered by the application requirement, and therefore will not be subject to independent control. However, I have seen so many bathrooms built so that they are wet all over the floor except at the time of swallowing, that I believe it could sometimes be beneficial to have some control, and so we are in favour of that. The new law also ensures better than at present that the building meets the public requirements at the moment the construction is being implemented. There are also clearer and better rules when it comes to making mistakes. The requirement for municipalities to exercise supervision is also strengthened, and supervision is imposed where there is a knowledge of illegal circumstances. The new law reinforces universal design requirements. Universal design is fundamental to human dignity, to facilitate a society for all – with minimal and often unnecessary barriers. And if a building new, it's also not particularly expensive to do it right and universally. Universal design is smart – for everyone. The rules are strengthened so that universal design is now required of buildings, installations and outdoor areas facing the public. In the case of existing buildings, the majority believe that a plan should be drawn up during 2010 for the introduction by regulation of time limits for different measures, including the rapporteur-general. Universal requirements for the design of existing buildings will primarily be imposed on buildings that are widely used by the public, such as: schools. Buildings that house important welfare measures shall be those that are first designed universally. The Storting climate agreement provides guidance for the use of renewable energy sources for the heating of barley. Heating of barley accounts for a significant part of our energy consumption. Climate challenges require energy-efficient construction and alternative sources of heating. Therefore, we believe that this should be an obligation to connect to district heating systems, but with some room for necessary local political judgement, without undermining the basis for district heating. Therefore, there is a ban on oil firing as the main source of energy. At the same time, it is important that we do not impose absolute requirements and lead to the closure of technological developments in the field of the environment and energy. The Committee would like to provide municipalities with better tools for the conservation of buildings in their municipality. The government parties and the opposition have a slightly different view of how best to take this into account. Our intention, on the other hand, is in common: to prevent speculative decay of conservation buildings. The law already provides an opportunity to make the regulations that the municipalities here need, and from our point of view, it is now time for this home to be used. The majority believe that the regulation must be based on a clear assessment of the types of construction and measures that are particularly in need of protection. Such a regulation will allow municipalities to intervene precisely in relation to speculative maturity. The regulation shall apply to all owners of conservation buildings, both public and private. Finally, let me point out that the new building law now becomes a more user-friendly law. The structure of the law shall follow the process of a construction case. This is how we hope that it will be easier for consumers to keep laws and building processes against each other. In the end, I want to fix a bug in the settings. These are proposals for Decision No C, which appears on page 61 of the vote, and which have been made on page 33 at the bottom of the first column. There's a word that fell out. the last sentence of the proposal is replaced by the following: ‘The regulation shall preferably be implemented at the same time as the law.’ As a result, the text of the proposal is in accordance with the observations of the majority on page 33 of the opinion. We're busy with this regulation coming fast, but we're concerned that it's going to be a good regulation. That is why we will not be absolutely absolute. That's why we've said it this way in the comment and said so, that's what the proposal says. So this was just a slip during the release.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e189	There has been a lot of discussion about this law around the concept of ‘reliable energy use’. A number of those operating in this market have rightly been concerned about the legislative approach to regulating energy sources. The proposition reads as follows: ‘The requirement for sound energy use therefore provides for the regulation of the use of specific energy sources, including the use of oil and electricity as the main energy source.’;» My question is whether the Government is going to ban e.g. general use of fossil fuels as the main energy source for construction, i.e. e.g. natural gas, or will a relationship be made with the agreement of the climate agreement on the prohibition of oil fires in construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e201	Firstly, I would like to repeat what I said in my contribution, that we will not shut down technological developments in the energy and environmental fields. We're very concerned about that. Then I would like to say to the representative, Höie, that we have a common responsibility to find answers to the question that Höie asked, because we have common objectives in the climate agreement, where we have said that we should have an action plan, where we should then step down the use of fossil fuels, and that we should have renewable energy. This action plan was actually an objective to be completed in 2008. It's not done yet. Here, the government will certainly have good dialogue with our partners in the agreement to find out good, forward-looking answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e208	Today it is the case that the Labour Inspectorate has its own construction treatment, which is carried out independently of the municipal treatment. In the 2004 stoppage of the Labour Code Committee, it was stated that this two-tracked system appears bureaucratic and that work environment issues should be included in the ordinary municipal procedure. It suggests an overall opposition to do. Why do the government parties hesitate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e213	We don't hesitate, but we go forward in a sensible way, I'll say. We are concerned with simplifying and strengthening the role of the municipality in the proceedings. Before we even want to go for such a solution, we have to make sure that it's going to be a better solution. It will be about transferring a task that is currently located in eight regional government offices, to 430 municipalities. We must also be sure that this will be a better solution for those who are parties to a construction project. We must not least also look at the cost picture around this. That's why we're not in this proposal right now, but we haven't shut the door again so that this can be a good solution for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e218	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e221	The aim of the changes to the building part of the Planning and Building Act is a transparent and user-friendly law, ensuring the quality, efficiency and legal certainty of the construction process. At the same time, the law and its management must promote sustainable development and the good architectural and universal design of measures, which also take care of health, environmental and safety considerations. These are points which have also been raised by previous speakers and on which there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee. Construction involves large social investments. It is therefore important that legislation ensures a predictable and effective process of construction, characterised by transparency and involvement of the interests and authorities concerned. I would like to make it clear that the intention to convert from an application system and a notification system to a purely application system is to simplify the whole process, for the benefit of both the respondent and the building authorities. The Party will stress that this needs to be reflected in simplification and savings in practice for the action holders, thereby speeding up the application process without reducing legal certainty for the applicants. We also expect the Ministry to ensure that the drafting of regulations is in line with the intention of simplifying and red tape, so that simplification becomes a reality and not just an honour in a position. The purpose of abolishing the system of a special building permit from the Labour Inspectorate and rather including work environment issues in the municipal construction process is to arrive at a more efficient procedure by removing unnecessary duplication of work. However, there must be a clear pre-requisite that occupational safety and health considerations must be adequately addressed in such a scheme. Temporary authorisation of use may be granted by the applicant responsible. A temporary authorisation for use is currently granted by the municipality based on information provided by the responsible applicant. Temporary authorisation of use may be granted automatically after one week if the municipality has not responded. The Party considers that the applicant in charge with a central authorisation should be able to grant a provisional authorisation for use based on the declarations otherwise sent to the municipality. Municipalities may be granted the right to entrust the applicant responsible in each case with the issue of a temporary authorisation of use. During the examination of the application, the municipality must assess the qualifications of the responsible applicant. In the case of qualified applicants in the municipality responsible, it is necessary to enter into a form of agreement that a temporary authorisation of use may be granted by the applicant responsible, in combination with a notification obligation. The Progress Party shall promote proposals for: review of specific laws relating to the processing of construction with a view to simplifying legislation and procedures as far as possible in order to strengthen local democracy the necessary legislative changes to enable municipalities to take final decisions in planning and building matters, and so on, which is important: the necessary legislative changes in order to involve the county's right of objection in planning and construction matters; The county council is experiencing, I am absolutely sure, in many municipalities as a major challenge for local democracy, and this is something that should be taken with it. Municipal self-government sees that when it comes to setting up a purchasing centre or expanding existing ones, there is a challenge that is perceived as a shackle. The party further wants to reintroduce municipal autonomy in terms of measures in the so-called beach zone, or the hundred metre belt. So the deadline for return on dwellings. There is a guarantee period on mobile phones, and there is a guarantee period on doll computers, but there are the same number of years on a dwelling that will last for at least a hundred years. I want to refer to Sweden and Denmark, where consumers have a 10-year warranty period for new dwellings. This is something that should also be taken into account when considering other measures. Infringement of the Planning and Building Act sees the Progress Party as highly problematic. No one should be able to cope by breaking the Law on Planning and Building. However, to crush penal barriers to offences that are stricter than a number of penal homes intended to be used for some serious crime, and to impose prison sentences of up to two years, to which this is added, is considered to be contrary to people's legal opinions when looking at the criminal sanctions for crime, etc., in this country. Furthermore, the Progress Party considers that the serious infringements are already linked to criminal liability in other specific legislation, such as damage to cultural memories, or so-called environmental crime. That is why the Progress Party is promoting its own proposal in this area. I believe that the action holder should be able to claim exemption from the obligation of connectivity where it can be shown that this entails substantial additional costs for the project both in investment and in day-to-day operation, without the link being proven to be significantly more environmentally friendly than the alternative source of heating proposed. Wages and salaries shall be based on real energy technology alternatives to which the builder is confronted. In the case of district heating, a monopolist is connected and the user's costs of district heating are assumed not to exceed the costs of electric heating. I find it worrying that one assumes that sprinkler systems can only be considered required in new buildings intended to be occupied by weak groups. Where it is such that sprinkler systems are a condition for the construction to be considered sound as boppelling for those groups, sprinkler systems should also be applied to existing building masses used for the same purpose. I would recommend to the Council of State and the Government that such a requirement be incorporated into the regulations, and that it also take into account existing building mass that houses residents of weak groups. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e267	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e272	In the setting, the Progress Party says that they are ‘in breach of the principle that the community should be able to impose securing, repair and possible repair of construction’ if there are no safety problems. Furthermore, the comment states that it is unreasonable for the owners to be required to repair and repair buildings. My question to the Progress Party is: Does the Progress Party really think that it should be a right to leave a building to stand and decay, to the detriment of a neighbor, that it should stand and look sad, without the community being able to intervene and say that this actually destroys our living environment? Does the Advancement Party consider that it is a right of an owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e279	The party of progress doesn't want sad construction. We want construction to be carried out. It is also clear in the position that the Progress Party believes it. At the same time, we believe that there should be a dialogue between the owners of these buildings and the authorities. I think it is often experienced by the owners of these buildings today that there is a one-way communication, that there is no dialogue. But the best thing to do is to be able to come up with solutions that all parties believe are the best in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e285	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e288	There are enough people who will think that the law on planning and building is not the most exciting thing to discuss. Nevertheless, I believe that this law is essential for important aspects of our lives, for example. in the case of climate issues, the environment and outdoor life, children and young people's growing-up environment, industrial development, indigenous questions, the development of urban and residential environments, public health, social security and, in particular, the possibility for people with disabilities to participate in the same way as those with a disability. Since this debate is about the building part of the law, I would like to point out how this part of the law also intervenes in major and crucial issues such as energy, climate, accessibility for all and the preservation of buildings. In Norway, about 10 % of drugrelated deaths are reported. 40 pst. of the total energy use in buildings. Therefore, reducing energy use in buildings will be an important energy, environmental and climate policy objective. The climate agreement on which the Stortinget stands must therefore be translated into practical action, not least in this area. There is no doubt that many build-up over the years are planned and listed without the requirement for optimal energy use being central to planning. Although the use of district heating in Norway has almost doubled in the last ten years, this still represents a relatively small proportion of total heating. The majority believe that the strengthening of the connection requirement to district heating in this setting will promote environmentally friendly alternatives to, inter alia, fossil fuels. At the same time, the exemption provisions in paragraphs 27-5 allow municipalities to exempt in whole or in part the obligation to connect if alternative solutions are environmentally better. However, dispensation must not be granted if the exemption may have a negative impact on the possibility of developing and operating district heating systems. Last year, the Stortinget adopted the Discrimination and Availability Act. Now we follow up in the Law on Planning and Building by incorporating universal design, as defined by the Syse Committee and produced by the Discrimination and Availability Act, into the purpose of the Act and into the operational paragraphs. The Committee considers this to be the main amendment made by the law, from the point of view of its availability to base universal design as a requirement for the main solution of the action. The Planning and Building Act is the most important law to make anti-discrimination and accessibility laws operational in areas where society creates disability barriers. The Committee, in its opinion, points out that the universal design requirement applies to buildings, installations and outdoor areas intended for the general public. Initially, this means that the requirement does not include work premises. The Committee therefore points out that the objective of an inclusive working life implies that new workplaces should be included in that provision. Studies show that Norwegian employers are very sceptical about employing disabled people, unfortunately. Although society has different systems of grants to facilitate jobs and the Labour Environment Act has some provisions, this type of legislation implies that specific schemes have to be established in general. This violates the principle of universal design as a primary solution. Universal workplace design will also be a good senior policy. The Committee will extend the main universal design requirement to include new work premises, buildings which then fall under the Working Environment Act. The large proportion of work premises being built are either office premises or premises which are also partially accessible to the public. However, the Committee considers that there are some workplaces for which it would be difficult to impose such requirements, such as: workshops, farms, etc. It is therefore necessary to provide for exceptional provisions. More headlines in the media have shown that some owners of construction speculate in letting conservation buildings mature to such an extent that the value of the protection ceases to exist or that the construction is in reality impossible to save. This type of speculative maturity was addressed in the committee hearing from among others. Oslo Municipality and the Early Memory Association. These hearing bodies considered that the municipality had to be given the opportunity to stop speculative decay. SV believes that through this law, municipalities must have tools to stop speculation. We are therefore pleased that the majority believe that conservation value must be recognised as an independent consideration and provide a basis for the municipality to impose refurbishment and maintenance. The same applies to the aesthetic quality of the building façade. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party consider that it is most appropriate that a regulation be drawn up based on further assessments which normally result from such a regulatory process. The regulation must be based on a clear assessment of the type of construction and the specific need for protection. In our opinion, it is very important that such regulations are put in place as soon as possible, and as we say in the majority position: preferably at the same time as the law is being enforced. I believe that with this law, we have been able to follow the intentions we had in terms of planning and building law: simplification, efficiency, better quality in construction matters, universal design and better technical requirements, more environmentally friendly construction and enhanced legislation related to the living environment. Just because the law intervenes in so many areas, it is also very important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e314	I challenged in my post the Council of State and the Government that one should have sprinkler facilities in every building inhabited by weak groups – this in view of the fire safety and the poor statistics and dramatic things we see when building that houses such a group, burns. How does the SV representative intend to secure all buildings, not just new buildings, inhabited by weak groups, with sprinkler systems for the fire safety of these residents?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e319	Of course, I see the need to secure buildings for all groups, but I am asking for understanding that I am meeting as an alternate and not a permanent member of the Committee and therefore do not know the discussion that lies ahead of this debate. So I would encourage the representative to address the question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e324	It is now that too many Norwegian houses and homes are heated with oil fires and electric currents, and that is the wrong use of energy. There's a consensus that we have to change this. You take a few steps in the right direction when you follow up the climate agreement, and you take a few steps in the right direction with the Law on Planning and Building. But my question to SV is: Is SV satisfied, or will SV, like the Left and Christian People's Party, go even further to get faster in place alternative energy and like to build more green buildings or buildings that require less energy for heating?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e329	Of course, we should like to see progress progress speeded up. That we in SV are impatient about these questions, hardly comes as any surprise to anyone. But I have to say that we are very pleased that today we are going to adopt a new design and building law that will be an important step in the right direction, and I am thinking in particular about the connection requirement for district heating. So this is an important step towards better development. But as I said, SV is impatient, and we should of course want the steps to be longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e334	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e337	The changes we are adopting today in new planning and building laws give us a more transparent and user-friendly law. It ensures the quality, efficiency and legal certainty of the construction processes. At the same time, the law and management of it shall promote sustainable development and a sound architectural and universal design of measures which also take care of health, environment and safety. The last few years have been marked by very high levels of construction activity. Construction errors, lack of supervisory activity, declared consumers and unprofessionalism in the construction industry have attracted the attention of media and central building authorities. In parallel, society’s focus on general and global challenges has increased. The need for large-scale reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and for ensuring equal opportunities for people with disabilities with regard to participation in society are examples of such major and important challenges. In addition, further attention has been paid to building practices and site design. Many and comprehensive challenges are linked to this very law. It's an important law. We use a large part of both community and individual financial investment to build public buildings, commercial buildings and private homes. We get clear improvements in universal design with this law. Universal design is reflected in the purpose paragraph of the Act and must be a main solution for new buildings aimed at the general public, cf. new anti-discrimination law. Provision is made for the introduction of requirements for the full or partial universal design of existing buildings after assessment of the importance of public accessibility, e.g. in schools or cinemas. In the committee setting, the requirement is further strengthened by the fact that universal design will also apply to new work premises, as several have mentioned, and the basis will be extended to special construction measures, not only in the construction as a whole. The Christian People's Party supports the government's introduction of new building deadlines and believes that it is an important step in achieving access to buildings. Unfortunately, however, the Government does not want to introduce deadlines for existing buildings and installations. As long as time limits are not imposed for existing buildings, it may take many decades before such buildings become available. Time-limits for the organisation of workplaces and changes in construction open the doors to many disabled persons for participation in the labour market. We believe that provision should be made for the universal design of existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas by 1 January 2020. Building or buying owner-occupied dwellings is probably the largest private investment most of us make. Of course, it is important to use recognised professionals and approved materials and to carry out checks on housing — it has both economic and safety significance. It ensures the value of the dwelling and ensures against water and fire damage. That is why this relationship serves both the owner of the house, the construction industry, the insurance industry and society. The fact that a person has good evidence of these conditions should also provide greater security for the purchase and sale of dwellings. Guarantee or insurance schemes for construction defects should be introduced. As many have been the subject of today’s debate, there is a need to improve existing instruments to contribute to the higher quality of all types of construction. An overall opposition believes that a voluntary service booklet, like what we have for a car, should be introduced, including for houses and apartments. The scheme should provide for cooperation between, inter alia: the construction industry, the financial industry, the owners of houses and the state. The Government should contribute to the establishment of such a mechanism in cooperation with those parties. The Christian People's Party agrees that independent control should be introduced in order to improve the quality of the construction industry and join the argument for independent control itself. But we believe that the government should have carried out more detailed limitations and calculations of the economic impact of the use of independent control before the proposition was submitted to the Stortinget. That is why we do not want to support the introduction of mandatory independent control now. However, when it is adopted today, the Christian People's Party assumes that the ministry focuses on low costs when the scope of the controls is defined in the regulations. Finally, some words about energy use in barley. We still use too much oil and electricity for heating. Conversion to alternative energy sources is urgent in order to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction target. The phase-out of oil firing in buildings is urgent. It is an effective and reasonable climate action. We need to step up the transition from fossil energy sources to renewable energy sources to heating. The agreement in the climate agreement must be followed up quickly. Finally, I will address the proposals where the Christian People's Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e363	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e368	I would like to take the opportunity to also thank the Christian People's Party and Bjørg Tørersdal for good cooperation on this matter in the Committee. But there's something that amazes me a little bit here, and it's that the Christian People's Party, on the one hand, says they're supporting the argument for independent control, but they're not in favour of it. Both from a socio-economic and consumer perspective, there is a great deal to be achieved through good and effective control by inspectors with competence in several disciplines. In addition, the verification shall be based on safety conditions, where the costs of failures are serious. I would ask the Christian People's Party representative to elaborate on why the party does not fully end up introducing such a mandatory independent control.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e378	The Christian People's Party fully agrees with the argument behind mandatory independent control, precisely because there is a need for increased control, the need to avoid building errors and the need to increase the safety of the individual resident. But we feel that the processing has been too poor to look at the costs of this. One has to know a little bit about the extent, as one has said, comes in the regulations. We want to know a little bit more about the amount one thinks about, and the costs this will bring to the individual owner. Just to get a focus on this, the Christian People's Party says that we support the thinking. We're in favour of enhanced control, but we won't vote for it now. We want to know how much it will cost the individual before we give our support for it. We also say this because we want the ministry to focus on the costs when they make the regulations for what is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e383	This is a somewhat curative question to the Christian People's Party, which suggests that the felling of trees in different environments should become compulsory and points out that killing is often far more extensive than other measures subject to application. My question is, isn't this a little far to go when it comes to building a bureaucracy around the obligation to apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e388	I like the question, because it's an important thing. With some wood it takes many, many years before you can get a beautiful ally. The beautiful one alone can be important for just that place or the city where this one alone is. It is important to take care of all or single trees that stand and tell a story, and that it takes much longer to develop than a building. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants one to focus on protective values, which a single old tree or a beautiful ally can be in a nearby environment. One shall proceed cautiously and not risk that the effectiveness of snow mowing or other practical considerations destroys things that it takes a long time to repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e393	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e396	When the Stortinge today adopts a new building case as a change to the Law on Planning and Building, a legislative work that started with the appointment of the Building Law Committee in 2002. The revision has taken time and has been very extensive, and a great commitment has been shown by both organisations and other actors in construction processes. This law has been made through broad involvement, which the Municipal Committee has also sought through a wide consultation and additional time used to follow-up consultation. I am pleased that the law now adopted is essentially in line with the Government's proposal, and that there is broad consensus in the Committee on the concreteities and changes that have been made, so that we get a good and predictable law that can last well over time with flexible solutions that take care of society's development and new technology in the future. This is a technical law, and with the assumption that the new law should appear to be simplified and more effective for everyone involved in the construction process, it must be timely to point out that it is limited how simple a building law can be with the requirements we set for safety and comfort around us today. Nevertheless, the new law appears more transparent, with a logical legal structure following the construction process, and a reduced number of application system tracks, where the many and different notification systems have been closed. We have clearer material and procedural rules, which do not leave great opportunities for interpretation and deviation. Schemes that work well today, and with which all users are well aware, have been continued. New deadlines in the application system will also come. In its further work on legislation and guidance, the Government will take into account, in particular, the wide variation in competence and capacity in municipalities and in the construction industry. The law shall operate efficiently and safely in both large and small units, in complex and simple construction matters. A part of simplification is an increasing focus on online solutions. More than 100 Norwegian municipalities can today receive electronic building applications and, together with the Ministry of Renewal and Administration’s initiative in language and simplification of public forms, this improves user-friendliness. As a frosting, it is very nice to be here today with proposals for a new building law, since a large part of the Frostings Act was incorporated into our very first law of 1274, when Magnus Lagbøte was at Frosting. ‘By law, land shall be built and not be destroyed’ is a well-known quote from this law and has the same validity today as at all times. The Building Act is of great social importance and large values are linked to construction. With regard to the simplification of the application system, this means that agricultural buildings are now also to be applied for as other building categories. However, this extension makes it important to stress the Committee's comments that most of the measures still need to be managed by the operator himself, and that it is considered that only the major agricultural buildings, which are complex, should be applied for with the responsible enterprises. This is done in order to continue to allow self-employment, through their own work, their own timber and the use of their own farm business, for those who have it. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that there is a need for coordination between the building law and other specific laws in order to avoid duplication of treatment. The aim must be for action holders to deal only with the municipality as a construction authority, and one believes that it is a good idea to incorporate the Work Inspectorate's own proceedings into the municipal building proceedings. This, of course, presupposes that municipalities are able to take account of the work environment. This should be investigated and put in place. Strengthening the final certificate will give builders better rights to build errors in the future, and will place responsibility for making mistakes. The certificate now becomes an important document that changes the legal status and gives municipalities the obligation to reopen the building case if the certificate is given on the wrong basis. Criticism from several opposition parties is that the three-week period for giving a final statement is too long and calls for a crime. Government parties consider this unjustified, given the importance of issuing a final certificate, and believe that the three-week period can easily be traced into the construction process itself so that unnecessary waiting time can be avoided. The need for temporary authorisation of use falls with a stronger focus on the final certificate. The legislative proposal focuses more on the quality of construction products, and the Committee believes that the prevention of errors starts with the quality of training of professionals in the industry and with the focus on self-revision in enterprises. Several opposition parties further propose to introduce competence requirements for construction undertakings. Government parties are not opposed to either competence or requirements for enterprises, but point out that all those to build within Category 2 will remain free to do much for themselves, or choose who they are to do construction work for, and to do so, and ‘self-made but’ will also be able to work in the construction industry under this new law. At the same time, we are proposing a number of other measures, which have wide support in the UK, to deal with unprofessional operators in the industry. The Government’s proposal to introduce a new independent control to ensure compliance with the building regulations should be a good tool in the fight against construction errors. And with the concrete representations made by the majority, it will become a gradual system that is flexible, pursues the unprofessional players in the industry and focuses on the largest measures, with the greatest risk. Norwegian standards on universal design, energy solutions and indoor climates will be designed and controlled, and control has also been clarified through contributions from the construction industry itself. I am pleased that we now have a much better control and supervision system in place with regard to the building regulations. Figures from many reports that several have referred to today clearly show the need for a much more stringent control regime with works. The existing system, based on self-control by the performing companies, has been far too poor, and the Right's proposal to introduce more of what does not work does not appear to be a good solution. A unanimous committee also supports an initiative by the Consumer Council to increase the guarantee period in the Housing Entry Act, which is to be amended now, from five to ten years. This is important given that many shortcomings only become visible after five years have passed. The new law also strengthens the requirements for accessibility and usability of buildings and outdoor areas for all disabled persons. I think we should be proud of the universal design requirements we introduce with this law, which will provide better solutions for all of us. A unanimous committee agrees that universal design requirements should also apply to new workplaces and that, within a short period of time, the Ministry should set deadlines for upgrading existing buildings to the standard of universal design. The Committee has different input into solutions for setting requirements for sound energy solutions in barley. The climate agreement showed that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the principles for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. However, it is important that we adopt a law that can last a long time, and that we rather revise the regulation more often in order to meet climate challenges. We propose a gradual transition to renewable energy, where smart combined opportunities between energy sources are made possible. In the future, there may also be a need for stronger instruments in the climate action, and the law we adopt today opens up the possibility of reducing people’s choice in energy waste and the use of polluting energy sources – in cooperation with the participants in the climate agreement. There are many themes in this law that could have been elaborated from the pulpit. The characteristics of the land, the inclusion of the results of the Ålesund report, the visual qualities, the local adjustment of signs, water and sewerage guides and curious remarks on plugging and pipe-dimensioning can be mentioned as examples. Rather, I choose to pay tribute to § 31-3 a few words. A large amount of work has been undertaken within the Committee to enable municipalities to impose maintenance on conservation properties in the future. Some landowners today find it profitable to speculate in maturity, perhaps because the alternative value of the land is so great, and what is now on the land does not appear to be tempting to take care of. The government is now the first government to use the regulatory home in § 31-4 to provide municipalities with a tool to impose maintenance on some properties that the regulatory work has specified. It is important to point out in this context that profitability and new uses should be assessed for those conservation properties, so that owners of land are not charged disproportionate costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e434	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e437	The Government Parties vote today to remove the possibility for municipalities to grant a temporary authorisation for use and to introduce a three-week period to provide a certificate of completion. In practice, as KS has stated in the hearing to the Committee, this would mean that all Norwegian builders would actually become lawbreakers, because it would be impossible to deal with the completion of a building for three weeks without being able to use it by those who own it. The representative may well be familiar with the situation of a young newly established couple living with living expenses where they live, while having a significant, high building loan. Obviously, there is an unsustainable situation. How will a defender defend that one spends this cost on newly established ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e447	I think it's a very good question, and I also answered that in my introduction. I don't think this is going to be a problem at all, because we're assuming that the completion certificate and the three-week deadline will be included in the construction process. This is how it is possible to plan that you will not be stuck with a building that is ready without being able to move in – i.e. that you bake it into the construction process. In addition, I would like to believe that Bent Höie, who is also busy with families with children who are moving into new houses, with expensive loans, thinks that it is better to move into a house with a certificate, which guarantees a right if you find a construction defect, than perhaps two days before Christmas, because you find faults that need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e454	Government Parties do not wish to impose time limits for universal design in existing buildings and structures. In fact, as long as time limits are not imposed in existing buildings, it may take decades before such buildings become available to disabled persons. Time-limits for the organisation of workplaces and changes in construction open the doors to many disabled persons for participation in working life. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that provision should be made for the universal design of existing buildings and facilities and outdoor areas from 1 January 2020. Why doesn't the Center Party support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e459	The centre party and the other government parties and the Christian People's Party have the same goal in this matter: we want to facilitate universal design in all buildings that are aimed at the audience and that everyone can use. We believe, on the other hand, that it is very important to investigate the costs here, because this is going to be expensive for those who are currently sitting as owners of both public and private buildings. We believe that when we are presented with such a plan, we will see the deadlines that apply then, and when you are going to do natural maintenance in the buildings, you can make improvements towards universal design as a logical order to reach the deadline that is set in a while. This goes back to the Dryersdal itself, which says that she will not support the Government's proposal for independent control, precisely because the costs have not been determined. So this is what we're going to do. We're going to investigate the cost first, and then we're going to make a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e465	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e468	The left joins the intentions of the new building axis part of the Planning and Building Act: to have a transparent and user-friendly law that ensures quality, efficiency and legal certainty in the construction processes. Construction involves large social investments. We have behind us a period of great activity in the construction sector. Failures to build, lack of supervision, declared consumers and unprofessional operators have attracted the attention of the media and public authorities. However, it must be an objective that we should focus our efforts on competence and quality, not on bureaucracy and control. That is why we in the Left regret that the government parties have not wanted to join in on our proposal to challenge the competence requirements of small businesses. Had the proposal been to introduce it, I could understand the refusal, but I can hardly understand a resistance to agreeing to clarifying such claims. We already have a lot of knowledge about this, and the industry itself will be willing to do it. They want to get such an investigation. In view of the fact that many construction errors relate to measures which are not subject to an obligation to apply, an increased search light on them and those responsible for them is forced. In the long term, this will be a good investment that could make a major control bureaucracy superfluous. Moreover, we now support the introduction of independent control. Many actors have been harnessed to develop quality, but still there is a job to do here. However, we do not unconditionally support a new control system. It must be flexible and prioritised where it has the most impact, and it must not be too bureaucratic and far-reaching. At the same time, there is a need to increase the use of ICT in construction processes, so that we get a faster handling of cases. The left also wants a national approach to standards to be taken. Ideally, they shall contribute to the simplification of design, tendering and construction processes, to the enhancement of quality, to the prevention of construction errors, to the reduction of costs and to the strengthening of the interests of consumers. In other words, they have a central role, both for quality, economics and bureaucracy. We believe that there is a need to debate the concept of standard, and the process under which a standard should be confirmed. Today, there may well be a strong economic operator contributing to standardisation, more than consumer interests and social interests. We are sceptical about such developments and therefore propose a national standardisation strategy. It is otherwise worth mentioning that SINTEF Construction Research through its publication of printed and digital guides is likely to provide a unique form of construction guidance. This may be worth a greater national and state attention in the further work on quality development in the industry. We also believe that there is a need to strengthen efforts to document the quality of construction products and their monitoring. In particular, as regards the construction industry and the Norwegian climate, it has not been established that all international standards meet Norwegian needs. Left supports the government's introduction of universal new building design deadlines. This is an important step in making buildings accessible to everyone. Unfortunately, the Government does not want to introduce deadlines for existing buildings and installations. Without deadlines for existing construction, we fear that it will take many decades before these will be available to everyone. Time-limits for the implementation of universal design were one of the success factors in the United States when the anti-discrimination law was introduced in 1995. The experience in the United States was that time limits for the organisation of workplaces and changes in construction opened the doors to many disabled people for participation in the labour market. In the United States, this was considered a win-win situation because many disabled people became self-sustaining. The practice of today’s planning and building laws is that the modifications and upgrades of existing measures that are so extensive as to fall within the scope of the law’s definition of main conversion meet the same requirements as if the measure were new construction. We assume that the same practice will apply to universal design. We have therefore made a proposal that existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas should be universally designed from 1 January 2020. The left will further apply depreciation rules that make it tax-effective for a farm to make the building available to all, and believe that there is a good social economy in it. The arrangements should be designed in such a way as to pay off early in life, while the arrangements become less favourable as time limits approach. I'll take up the Left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e491	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e496	I hear the representative of the Left who talks that he is concerned about the interests of consumers. At the same time, the Left, like the Christian People's Party, hesitates to participate in independent control because one does not know enough about the consequences. So my question to the left is: is it still that the main response of the Left to the major challenges we see in this sector in the area of construction defects – which, therefore, costs society DKK 12 to 15 billion per year? years – is self-control being pursued because one has not been adequately identified with a new and much more efficient system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e501	It is an intrusive idea for the representative, Mr Hagebakken, to come here, because there is no doubt that self-control in many ways has not worked well enough. But the Left wants an investigation on this – just as the representative Brustad Moe stated in the previous post – to actually see the real cost of it. But there's no doubt that there are some cowboys in the industry, to use that expression, and there's no doubt that we want to have a rice behind the mirror, because self-control is not good enough. But as I said, we want an investigation first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e506	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e509	The bill that the Stortinget is debating today is a broad review of the entire building part of the Planning and Building Act and is based largely on the setting of the Building Law Selection. There are two main objectives with regard to the proposal for a new law. The first is to get better and simpler application systems and procedures. The second is better quality in construction works. Together with the plan part of the law, which was signed just before last summer, the new law will appear in an entirely new legal structure that will make it more systematic and easier to use for everyone. Let me comment briefly on some of the main points. Firstly, the application system and the handling of cases should be improved and simplified. Some of the current laws go back to 1924. Law has been changed a number of times; it has been proliferated, and there is a lack of connection between the rules. The proposal for a new law is meant to clean up this. The application system will be better coordinated. The notification schemes, which have been unwieldy, will be integrated into the application system. Clearer limits on the handling of measures are now being drawn up. The changes in the application system will make the procedure more transparent for the respondent/applicant and the municipality. The proposal builds on experience from municipalities and businesses and will remove a lot of unclear points that have created unnecessary conflicts in construction projects. For example, there are changes in the rules on neighbouring alerts and the management of private law. There's too many construction faults. The proposition refers to an estimate of between 12 and 15 billion kroner. The number of errors and the cost of creating and impacting on health and safety are controversial, but the point is that the cost of fixing is too high in any case. Therefore, better quality is at the heart of the proposal for a new law, and more action will be taken in this way. It's getting better control. According to the current law, it is possible for municipalities to require to a large extent independent control, but this requirement is not used at present. Proposition adds up to an outlying use by independent control. At the same time, self-checking shall be carried out by both the design and the performing as part of the quality assurance. Independent control is important, both to capture faults in the work and because control from others itself will focus on quality. Control requirements require clear frameworks for the control and the scope of the control. This will make it easier for municipalities and construction parties to decide when to control. It will also make the controlling company's task more transparent and transparent. There is a great deal to say that control needs to be improved. It is not true in the setting that a whole construction industry is contrary to the approach to control in the proposition. There are many stakeholders who support the submission. There are many who see that better control will strengthen the serious part of the industry. Control shall be required for important and critical areas. These areas shall be specified in the instructions. In addition, the municipality will be able to require control based on local circumstances, such as: where the municipality is aware of a specific problem with the construction site. The manner in which the control is to be carried out shall also be laid down in a regulation. Checks will be more intensive where there is a high risk of serious errors and more intensive where experience with the quality assurance of the person being checked is poor. Undertakings with well documented self-checking shall experience a simpler control. So for the final check and the final certificate. Many measures are now closed without an application for a final certificate, as temporary use permits are the most practical distinction in the contract. This means that these measures will not be terminated with a full review of compliance with the legal requirements. So, after the bill, this is going to be the general rule. But that doesn't mean there need to be three weeks since there's no going on. It is possible to plan this work so that the final certificate is completed when the building is completed. A follow-up of illegal relationships is also an important matter. Regulations on requirements for creation become clearer and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e535	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e538	A short time ago, we had a fire in an institution building in Høyanger in Sogn and Fjordne where there could have been a terrible error if there had not been an unlikely rapid expression from the locals and the fire force. This was an old building that didn't have a sprinkler system. There are a lot of these. Is it really, then, that according to economic considerations, the government chooses to create an A team and a B team in the future, some of which are so unfortunate that they might be helpless in an institution that does not have a sprinkler system? Is it really the case that these will then be exposed to great danger because of the scale of the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e543	The answer is no. Let me say first of all: all praise to Høyanger and all those involved locally that the evacuation and everything else that was to happen there happened so quickly. Then I also have to say that when it applies to the general responsibility for fire, it is up to the individual of us in our dealings with different appliances, toothpicks and what else it must be. So to the point: Fire protection of existing buildings is initially under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I have to make that clear. But it is today that, for example. The bank demands fire-technical solutions. It was changed too few years ago. Difor is the requirement for nursing homes, nursing homes, etc. In the regulations that are now to be followed up, we will consider how to follow up the fire safety. The laws are now aimed at new buildings, hence the warning of measures for different buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e550	It has been impossible for the Storting to get a real picture of the extent of independent control the Government has intended. One sees, however, that the government parties in the setting have a number of limitations, but they continue to attach it to the concept of mandatory independent control. My question to the Council of State is: Would it be appropriate to assume that some measures, which are generally subject to independent control, are nevertheless exempted, for example: where companies have shown that they properly control the area, that it is not wrong? The municipality may consider that the measure does not necessarily need to be subject to independent control, even if it does. has a regulation come from the Ministry of Local Affairs saying that all new wet rooms – resulting in application obligations – should be subject to independent control?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e558	As I was in my post, and as I have the possibility to elaborate now, the extent of construction errors that we have now seen over several years indicates that it is necessary to tighten up the control. I have had the pleasure of participating in something called the Construction Cost Programme in conjunction with the industry, where we have just focused on actions that will both bring costs down and provide better quality in construction. Otherwise, the results of that work will be published around the country by the application itself. Then the answer will be that a company with well documented self-control will experience that control is simple. The answer would also be that municipalities should have the ability to sort the level of control they want in a number of areas. When it comes to wet rooms, I'm very surprised that it's being picked up. There's a lot of mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e565	The Christian People's Party fully agrees that there is too much structural damage. We fully agree that there is a need for increased control and fully agree that this must be done as quickly as possible. But it doesn't have to happen so fast that we don't know what we're doing. The Christian People's Party sent questions to the Council of State about how much this would cost, and got an answer that was so far okay, because it said that it would be much cheaper with independent control than the costs you get if there were construction errors. It's Christian People's Party understood. But is it about $3,000 on a house, or is it about $30,000 on a house? We want to know what we're doing when we're going for a whole new control system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e570	I appreciate that the representative Tørresdal has such strong confidence in the Ministry and the Council of State that she asks so specific questions. This has to be tried out, and then you can come back with both average and other costs. In fact, control may differ slightly in different parts of the country, depending on how the municipalities do this. Local authorities themselves have the possibility to take special care. But anyone who now builds a house will feel a greater security for example. wet rooms for a period are checked, because then they are controlled, and then we prevent construction errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e577	In its 2009 draft State budget, the Left introduced funds to challenge the skills requirements of small enterprises. One third of the turnover in the construction industry relates to non-applicable actions carried out in many cases by actors for which there is no competence requirement. The construction industry itself wants to make demands, and we already have action classes. Much of the basis for such an investigation has already been laid. Why won't the government parties be involved in such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e582	There are probably a lot of simple proposals that are being made in the state budget that it may be undesirable to look at more closely. At the same time, some of these proposals are probably from time to time not knowing what overviews already exist when it comes to price and follow-up of different kinds. In this case, I am very pleased that even smaller companies are now committed both to reflect on what the new laws will require and to secure the necessary skills. Not least at this time, small businesses have very special arrangements for turning around quickly and doing one job after another.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e587	The Progress Party believes that no one should get along and break the Planning and Building Act. I would like to say that it conflicts with the legal opinion of the people most when we see that a penalty framework of up to two years, which is intended to be applied in the context of gross crime, can be used in the context of violations of the law on planning and building. Does the Council of State think that the penalty framework is proportionate to the serious crime we see in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e594	One might argue about this, but in view of the extent of the construction defects that have already been identified, it has been important to tighten up the legislation at this point. But then I would like to stress that an important aspect of the law in relation to everything called crime is the preventive side. In this context, I believe that tightening up the law and tightening the follow-up in itself will seem preventative, and it is high time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e602	As the representative Ib Thomsen said in his statement, our aim is to make changes in the laws a transparent and simpler law that ensures the quality, efficiency and legal certainty of the users in the construction processes. We will include: meet the three-week time limit for the completion of the certificate. We will maintain today's system of a week's deadline, and on the basis of this, the Progress Party together with the Right and the Christian People's Party will present the following suggestions: «Competition shall be issued by the municipality within 1 week of receipt of the requirement together with the necessary documentation. Where the final certificate has not been issued within the time limit, the construction works may be put into service.» After the Progress Party's view, it is important for the economy of the project that one does not have to wait to be able to put into service built on the basis of summer meal by the Governing Body. The Progress Party will also indicate that the Government's proposal for a new building law establishes a comprehensive system of independent control of the measures. The independent control shall be carried out at different stages of the construction process and include a very large number of conditions. In this context, the batch of progress will indicate that an aggregate construction industry is moving against this approach to quality control and assurance. We believe that the best way to ensure the quality of interventions is through competence and good practices in enterprises. We also mean that the government's proposal will delay and exaggerate the construction processes. With the scope of independent control permitted, there will also be a need for a large amount of independent control. These businesses will lose both the companies and the municipalities for the necessary building skills, which in itself will weaken the ability of the companies to actually comply with the law. The checks may be carried out to a small extent once the construction has been completed, but must be coordinated in the construction phase. This will be very demanding and could significantly delay and exaggerate progress. In this context, my Advance Party that submitted to the law has to undergo extensive changes, so extensive that they require an entirely new proposition from the Government. This is also Right merged in, and the Progress Party and the Right have a suggestion in this area. The Progress Party will also warn against the granting of a blank authorisation to municipalities to assign supervisory powers financed by the general part of the construction fee. The building tax fee is intended to be self-financing and caution should be exercised in adding additional tasks to be covered by this fee. Such supervision may be incorporated into the responsible undertakings’ internal control and Community control may be ensured through the audit obligations proposed by us. An area that, after the Progress Party's vision, cannot be mentioned enough times is built in a beach zone. Here the state and a number of people in this room in the districts were deprived of the possibility of using areas for cabin construction and tourism. Some representatives have tried to explain and expound, but we in the Progress Party see what the county is doing to overrun municipalities and individuals by law. This is it little or no understanding for out in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e624	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e627	The left calls for a national commitment to green buildings, as well as environmental standards and certification of them — i.e. something more than an energy label. We have to recognize that many more exciting buildings are being built and built in other countries. One of the reasons is probably a more conscious commitment to this and the introduction of overall systems. What is important in Norway is that we have a more dynamic system for environmentally friendly construction, where local authorities are given an increased opportunity to introduce local requirements for environmental standards. In the spirit of good local democracy, the Left has therefore proposed that the building axis should be a minimum and that municipalities themselves should be allowed to impose stricter requirements on environmental standards for construction products. But here, unfortunately, we have only been led by the Christian People's Party. This is where it has to lean on the confidence of local democracy in other parties. The left has otherwise been concerned with trying to get into the new law a stronger local protection for green structures and trees. The consequences of the felling of trees in cultural environments and in agglomerations are often far more extensive than other measures subject to application. Unfortunately, in many places we see a practice that changes common and green structures before measures are notified and notified. When the damage has already occurred, these elements do not become part of the consultation rounds in planning cases. They are simply excluded from democratic rights. But here, too, we have only been led by the Christian People's Party. We regret that no more support our proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e639	I have asked for the word to try to correct some errors in the setting. I refer to the note on page 6 of the vote, which briefly outlines the legislative changes to the proposal for a decision made by the proposal as a result of the overlap of some of the provisions of the proposal in the proposal with those adopted during the examination of the plan part of the law, as stated. Law of 27 June 2008 No. 71. For the sake of order, I would like to mention here the relevant provisions relating to: It is the heading of Chapter 34, as amended: Chapter 34 Entry into force and transitional provisions. Furthermore, it is the title of the legislative proposal § 34-1, which has been amended to: § 34-3 Entry into force – the building case part. It is the title of the bill § 34-2, which has been amended to: § 34-4 Transitional provisions for the building case section. And there's a new chapter title inserted: Chapter 35 Changes in other laws. In addition, the title of Section 34-3 has been amended to: § 35-2 Changes in other laws – Part II. These changes are also apparent from the letter of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs dated 16 May 2008, which is included in the vote. As the Committee mentions on page 6 of the vote, the legislative act must be regarded as an amending act because the law on planning and construction was adopted during the examination of Ot.prp. No 32 for 2007-2008, as referred to in the plan part of the Act. This has been taken into account by the Committee in drawing up the preliminary wording of the Act. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee proposes a minor correction in the fifth paragraph of Section 34-2 of the Act adopted, where the second sentence of Section 1-9 of the second paragraph of Section 1-9 is referred to by an incurrency. The correct reference shall be the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 1-9. This change is made in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment. In agreement with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, I would like to correct an error in the legislative decision § 16-3, third paragraph of the proposal, which is due to a typographical error in the proposal. There's a reference to § 31-9. The correct reference must be § 31-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e675	Bent Höie is the rapporteur on the matter. He has explained some minor changes that will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e678	I do not think it is right that the Progress Party and the representative of Starheim's last post should be left undisputed. With regard to the Recommendation of the Advance Party on Sprinkler Systems in Existing Constructions, the Committee noted that: ‘Known that the Ministry of Justice will present a major communication on the prevention of fire protection in spring 2009, the Committee assumes that regulations under the Law on Planning and Building are harmonised with its intentions’. So I think it shows a little lack of respect for the building law when the Progress Party takes a rematch on the parts of the plot where they have lost. This concerns their proposals on the beach area and the shopping centre, in the construction sector. I would also like to point out that what the Progress Party says about the independent control that we are going to introduce is not right and should be challenged by us. This can be seen, for example. that this is going to be terribly expensive both for municipalities and for policy-makers. I'm going to say that the billions that are due to the construction mistakes we have in society today are so much bigger that we should cost ourselves an independent control, which can be flexible and useful over time. In addition, the Progress Party claims that there is an overall construction industry that requires not to introduce independent control, but rather to use the audit system and expand it. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e694	Only a few points that can be solved on the tap. All the time until the last talk was about: Is there a whole construction industry that does not want independent control? I have understood the National Association of Construction so that what is technically applies, they clearly see the need. What they disagree with is independent control of e.g.: universal design. When it comes to fire and my part of the responsibility there, the requirements for sprinkle in the regulation of course will be directed towards new buildings. There will be different requirements, depending on the use, but the main conversion and change in use of older buildings will be required. So has the House Bank, for example. – as I have said – demands have already been introduced in connection with the financing of care homes and hospitals. This is a law that has been for a long time and has been patched on many times. I believe that today's debate, both in terms of energy requirements and in terms of universal design, shows that the world is moving forward. When that applies to the energy requirement, we're all aware that construction stands for 40 pst. the need to reduce energy emissions and the importance of measures to bring them down. Therefore, there is a central element both in some of the government's affairs and in the climate agreement, and will be followed up. When it comes to universal design, for more or less 30 years, we've used a lot of good words about how important it is, but there's no exaggeration. On the road, one of us has realized that not everything costs money when it comes to universal design – think of the contrast colors that make it possible for people with disabilities, for those who are aware of it, in buildings. Then there are also some reports that tell us that complete universal design in existing buildings can be cost-effective. According to NIBR, it could be a frame between 14.3 and 23.4 billion kroner. In new buildings, on the other hand, according to VISTA, an estimated extra cost of introducing the universal design requirement between 0.9 and 1.2 in extra costs. Difor – with regard to existing construction: The road to walk here is about something more calculated. Finally, a new law of regulations will hopefully be introduced from 1 January 2010, according to the plan we are now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e709	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e725	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e734	The House Bank Act provides the formal basis for the management and organisation of the House Bank. It is important to clarify that the changes Odelstinget is making today do not alter the political tasks added to the Husbanken. The main task of the House Bank is to promote government housing policy, and the House Bank manages housing support and loan and grant schemes. Nevertheless, the House Bank is not only a government agency for the implementation of housing policy, but also an important centre of expertise that gathers and disseminates knowledge of good working practices and successful solutions, including: for state development, for building practices and for providing housing for those who are homeless today. This type of task is becoming more and more topical for the future, and over time, the Husbank has also had instruments relating to the other policy areas, such as social policy, health and care policies, integration and inclusion policies, education, culture and environment policies and enterprise and district policies. The house bank is currently financing the construction of new kindergartens, nursing homes and school facilities and the refurbishment of churches. So there's a lot going on here, and there's a lot of responsibility that's been added to the House Bank. The State budget we know is about the political foundation of the House Bank, but the House Bank Act is the legal basis. And that's the last thing we're dealing with today. In the proposal, the Government proposes that the Husbank should be a government administrative body under the Ministry. The House Bank will now be directly managed by the Department, and today's regional government will be replaced by a council. Strengthening the position of regions through a central council will provide a more natural, efficient and better implementation of housing policy, believe – and mean – we. The proposed legislation also proposes a change of name, which we support and welcome. We also believe that the Administration Act will still apply to the House Bank, and that there will be opportunities to complain about individual decisions. We also assume that the housing policy instruments of the municipalities, such as the use of government loans, should initially be done on a voluntary basis on the premises of the House Bank, and that the House Bank can attach special conditions and conditions to funds that are given to the municipalities without a separate legal basis, so far as this is in line with the purpose of the House Bank. Other types of governmental impositions against municipalities require the law to: It is also the case that property tax is the subject of a heated political debate, and we believe that it should remain a voluntary municipal tax. We therefore support that the commitment that allows Husbanken to require municipalities to provide light property tax is not continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e753	We now see that the House Bank is being used as a means of maintaining the property tax around the municipalities. The government proposes that the House Bank should be a government agency under the Ministry, which I do not have very much faith in will improve the situation for the users of the House Bank today. I believe that the House Bank and other Norwegian banks may be important for the management and implementation of housing policy, but banks can help to see and coordinate the use of the instrument, while providing the municipalities and the construction industry with systematic and comprehensive information. Today, it is mainly start-up loans that are offered by the House Bank to young people in the start-up phase. The house bank was to become a bank primarily for the first time. The first-time start-ups meant not only young people who bought housing for the first time, but also others who could have difficulties establishing themselves in the housing market. You should also include e.g. people who had recently been divorced. The start-up loan today provides top finance for the first time purchase of housing, and is allocated via the municipality. It is just now that the young people should have had the opportunity to get their first dwelling. But the financial crisis makes young people struggling to get housing. Although the state has strongly contributed funds to banks, there is no requirement for young people to receive loans. It's a complete stop on the loan front. Even so, young people barely receive an application because they do not borrow money today. Now the banks are sitting and licking their wounds and making up the status, to see how good years they've had, with the consequence that it's the young people who get hurt. Young people are particularly hard hit when banks tighten up their lending opportunities. Politicians and the Government should be concerned that there will be 100 000 more young people between 20 and 30 years of age entering the housing market over the next 10 years. Many more young people don't get loans to buy housing, because none of the banks want to lend them the entire purchase price. How deep, how extensive and how long the descent will be, no one knows. But this will certainly affect those young people who want to establish themselves. I refer in particular to the large youth coals that will enter the housing market in the coming years. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party will vote against the proposals. We believe that the organisation of the new body under the department will not improve the situation for those who need the Husbank.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e768	You can say a lot about the House Bank. The House Bank manages housing support, loan and grant schemes and contributes to the dissemination of knowledge in the field of housing policy. The government has proposed a new law on the Husbank. The Act shall be a Powers Act, which provides the formal basis for the management and organisation of the Husbank. The Government proposes that the Husbank should be a government administrative body under the Ministry, that the Governing Council should be abolished, and that the current regional government should be replaced by regional councils. Furthermore, it is proposed to make the Ministry the Board of Appeal of the decision of the House Bank, and the financing of the House Bank will continue to be provided by means of State budget appropriations and loans from the State. The proposals do not alter the political tasks added to the House Bank. The State budget should continue to cover the political foundation of the House Bank, while the House Bank Act constitutes the legal foundation of the House Bank. The official name, the Norwegian State Husbank, is proposed to the House Bank. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to change the name of the Norwegian State House Bank to the House Bank. We also see that the Government's proposal to make the House Bank a governing body directly under the Ministry gives clearer role-sharing. But we believe that the proposal to replace today's national and regional governments risks leading to more, not less, confusion. It is very uncertain what the real function of such councils will be when the tasks are to give advice, not to make decisions. The Christian People's Party believes, like the rest of the opposition, that governments have an important legitimizing function for the business of the House Bank, among others. because the members of the board are largely political. Governments thus help to link important links between the Husbank and local politicians. The Governing Board of the House Bank works according to clear objectives and priorities and is audited annually by the National Audit Office. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will join forces with the Advance Party, Right and Left and vote against the bill. Then finally, there has been an error in the setting. On page 2, first column, last section of the Committee's comments: ‘The Committee has no other comments and supports the Government’s proposal for amendments to the Law on the House Bank.’ This line must be directed to: «The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties, wishes to support the suspension.» The Christian People's Party has chosen to join the rest of the opposition here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e798	The president notices that there has been an error in the setting, which will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e801	I can first and foremost comfort everyone who is concerned about the current and future role of the House Bank, if there is to be a change there. The proposal for a new law is not meant to contribute. The tasks which are laid in the house-bank shall lie there. The new proposal is adapted to the tasks of the House Bank, which one expects them to receive. The house bank shall be the State body for housing policy. I have to say that over time, as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I have really learned to appreciate the way the House Bank travels. The only part is to manage the stands and loan and deposit arrangements. Today, however, the House Bank is primarily a centre of expertise that gathers knowledge and disseminates knowledge about both good working methods and successful solutions. The role as a guide is more central than many people are aware of. Among other things, the House Bank has competence in the field of the environment and energy, in terms of urban development and building practices, as well as the House Bank's great competence in helping people to get into this country's homes, i.e. to contribute to the fight against housing problems. This means that the House Bank per the date is involved in a number of different types of programmes and a number of different types of cooperation projects. In terms of housinglessness, more than half of the municipalities have now developed a housing-social action plan. So the House Bank is heavy inside and gives advice and guidance. When the financial instruments are involved, they are now channelled through the municipalities to a large extent. It helps to underline the need for close, good and close cooperation between the Husbank and the individual municipality. So what does this mean for those who are on the board of the House Bank today? It is simply so that the board of the House Bank does not have the same function as before. The Husbank has gone from being a bank to being a competence center. In relation to other government governments, the Board of Directors no longer has the functions of government. So then the question is, is there an alternative to cutting out the board? That's where we've chosen the model: to turn the board into a council. The part of the work of today’s board of directors that is about to be an antenna locally and regionally — that is, capturing what concerns different issues and themes in the housing market, how the situation is in different regions — is important. Regional advice shall therefore be the link between the regional offices of the Husbank to society, to the different user groups and to the political level of the municipalities. The next question is, what about the central government of the House Bank? There we have chosen the same model – a central council, which is a link to the state council, and which disseminates experience from the implementation of housing policy locally, so that they can be captured in the established political systems and in the other systems we have today. That is why this Council shall be composed of members of the regional councils. So I hear that the representative Tørersdal points to the advantage that today's government is politically composed. That's what I think is an important point. If one is to reflect the situation locally, it is important to have different inputs from the political point of view. I will look at how I will follow up on this in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e818	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e834	An overall committee today supports the Government's proposal that local government officials be given the same employer authority as government employees in Nav offices where joint management has been agreed. Today, the establishment of Nav offices around the country is determined by local agreements as to whether it should be a unified or a shared management. When we treated Ot.prp. No 47 for 2005-2006, on the Labour and Welfare Management Act, the majority of the members of the delegation to one local manager stated that sufficient professional and administrative powers must be conferred on them in order to exercise the full management of the Agency while maintaining the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality. The Nav reform is now being rolled across the country, and in this context both the municipalities and the Labour and Welfare Act have reported on matters that they believe make it difficult to exercise uniform management of the office. These include: on the possibility for municipal managers to exercise employer authority vis-à-vis government employees. Today, by the legislation in force, there are certain limitations in the ability of local civil servants Nav managers to act as employers and to perform the tasks assigned to Nav managers by government employees. The intention of the Nav reform is to want a more efficient, more coordinated and better budget for the benefit of users. In that case, the agency must also have a management and authority system which ensures that the local Nav offices are managed in the best possible way. Therefore, it is wise to take seriously the signals that there are today limitations for municipal employees managers, and do something about it. There we are today. As I said, the whole committee supports the proposal presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e847	As the Advocate General pointed out, this is a matter for municipal employees to provide managers with the same employer authority as government employees to heads of the Nav offices. This is a matter that would have been unnecessary if the organisation of this scheme had been the way it should have been. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed that it be State aid today. Then this matter had been completely unnecessary. At that time, the organisation had been streamlined in a completely different way – with one joint owner, one joint management, common data services and common remuneration systems. This, of course, is one of the reasons why the Nav reform is collapsing, and that it seems to be out of control. How can I say that? Well, on repeated occasions, the Progress Party has asked the Council of State questions about many different issues where there is cause for concern, and was largely answered that there was no cause for concern. We have seen in retrospect that there was a great deal of cause for concern, among other things. in the case of deposits relating to day-to-day payments. Today we can read in the evening post that there are many serious errors, and that Nav in a quarter of the cases checked by the Swedish Audit Office regarding the payment of sick pay and transitional benefits, cannot provide evidence. There are major problems in determining child support; Nav does not give a proper picture of the expenses of the population, and local offices take decisions for which they are not authorised. These are many of the things we've asked the Council of State about, and got the answer that everything was all right. But it's not like that. This is just a confirmation of what we've said on several occasions, and it shows that there's a budget out of control, which also the Evening Post points out today. What does this have to do with this matter? Well, today's decision should have been completely unnecessary. Today's decision I would call a disease sign of the reform, that we don't have common owners, that we don't have common management structure. We would have if you had put everything under one management and one owner. We support the attitude – not because we believe that this is the best solution, but because on repeated occasions we have proposed to bring municipal social assistance under the state and have been downgraded over and over again. This is necessary to ensure that the Nav situation does not get even worse than it is. It's like a hub that seems to be completely out of control. What would be a good thing for the user, what would give the user one office to deal with, one case handler, has become a hub where you are happy to meet the same case handler twice. As I said, this is a sign of illness. We're supporting this, assuming it won't make the situation worse. We hope that it can get a little bit better, but we're afraid that this is completely out of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e864	The President will point out that the Committee has said that there is no need for a debate on this matter. There's a growing need here. Now they're also asking for a line, and so far it opens up for up to three lines for each of the speakers. It may be appropriate to impose a speaking time limit. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e869	I hear what the representative Svendsen says, he is concerned about the collapse that has also been reported in the newspaper today. My question to the representative is, does he think it's the system that is now going to rock this? What has really happened is that the Government of the Council of State has no control over this – and that is also the responsibility of the Council of State. In that case it is not the system directly with which there is something wrong, but there is a lack of control from those who should have the control, and then from the Council of State to the highest degree. Does the representative Svendsen not agree that this is the main problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e876	The representative Skelstad is into something substantial here, but I think it's a mix. I think it's a mixture of the fact that the Council of State doesn't have control of what's happening now and a system error. The system error is that there is no joint management under one common ownership of the whole reform. That's one of the big weaknesses. But then, of course, it's quite correct what Skelstad says, that the Council of State lacks control. It looks like there's a complete failure in control here. That shows both the Riksrevision report, all the headlines that have been in the newspapers, and all the complaints that have been on Nav. Never before has there been such a complaint about this department as it is right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e881	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e884	I just want to draw attention to the agreement that the committee concluded – and I am actually used to the fact that agreements we make in the committee are also respected – and it was that we should not have a debate on this matter in the Chamber today. That is why neither the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, nor so far the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen, are present in this Chamber today. We agreed on this debate that we should deal with the roll-out proposal on Nav, which is likely to come to Stortinget for the week. We are going to deal with this – not follow up in any further debate on this matter now, but stick to the agreement in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e889	The President shares this view. For the consequence of this is that a number of those who might want to take part in the debate are therefore not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e892	Let me just say first that when I sat here, it is precisely because the State Council Dag Terje Andersen had been informed that there was no debate on this matter – and I was responsible for the previous issues. It might be tempting to use every opportunity to say something about the situation in Nav, but I think that the individual has to ask himself a question, and that's whether it seems the case. Everyone knows that there is a demanding situation at many Nav offices. Everyone also knows that there are a lot of people who contact the Nav offices, who get the best follow-up. It's also so that all municipalities don't have their Nav office yet, so here's a transition phase. But at least I think it's absolutely certain that it's not as easy as raising most of what's unchallenging in the Nav offices, that social assistance is not state-owned. It's probably not that simple. What can be enjoyed by both the representative Svendsen and others is what is said here by Lise Christoffersen: The government comes with a case to the Stortinget, where one illuminates the situation in Nav, and where one illustrates how one has intended to deal with the challenges ahead. The item will already appear at the end of this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e903	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e912	Then we are ready for voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e919	20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4 and 5, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 8-10, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 11-16, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 17-19, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 20, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e957	Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party, and Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to draw up during 2010 a plan for the implementation of deadlines for universal design of existing measures and construction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e1045	Proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Left to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e1065	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e1081	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2713	In C, a correction has been made during the debate to read the last sentence as follows: ‘The regulation shall preferably be implemented at the same time as the law.’ The position of the Committee on B and C – with the correction made – is in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2751	Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section 21-2 of the A section 21-2 of the adjustment and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2767	Alternatively, the A §21-7 fourth paragraph of the adjustment and proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2788	It is then voted over A § 24-2. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2801	It is then voted over A §§ 26-1 and 29-2. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2810	An alternative between the A section 29-5 of the adjustment and proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2836	So it goes over the rest of A. The President makes note of a correction in paragraphs 16–3. The third paragraph refers to Paragraphs 31 to 9, which reads Paragraphs 31 to 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2843	President! I think it was made wrong during the vote on proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2848	Can you come up here for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2851	I think it was made a mistake during the vote on proposal No. 8, which is also behind the right hand side. It was just referred to that the Christian People's Party and the Left were behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2856	In that case, we shall deal with proposal No. 8 again. What Bent Höie said was that proposal No. 8 is supported only by the Right, not by the Christian People's Party and the Left. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2859	What was said was that only the Christian People's Party and the Left were behind the proposal, and it only got 11 votes because it was not said that the Right was also behind it. If we take it again, and both the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left Party vote for it, it will be right!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2866	Then there is a revoting of proposal No. 8, which the Right Christian Party and the Left stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2881	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e2886	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e3010	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e3023	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the same parties mentioned, that is, the opposition as a whole, will go against the title of the law and the law as a whole? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e3035	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e3075	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e3085	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17-lower.ana.ud1193e3097	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
