ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e84	The representative of Morten Höglund, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e92	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Myraune, Svein Harberg, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen and myself, I am delighted to propose measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e97	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. By virtue of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that, on Friday's agenda for the Grand Duchy, the order of business be changed by making case No. Case No. 4 and Case No. 5 switch places. This is done in agreement with the relevant inter-pellant and relevant state councils. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e112	The image of the government of Maldives, which held a government meeting under water, recently went around the world. It's told that the government of Nepal is considering holding a government meeting at Everest Base Camp, where ice and snow melt. I will not propose a big meeting or a government meeting at Bryggen in Bergen! However, this illustrates how climate change affects governments and national assemblies across the globe, and it is a challenge for sectors and societies as a whole, including in Norway. Climate change is visible throughout the globe, in the northern regions, on the southern islands, along the rivers of Asia and in the edge zones of the Sahel Belt in Africa. Global climate change affects key societal and development issues such as food security, water supply, clean energy access and poverty reduction. Fortunately, more and more countries join the objective of limiting heating to a maximum of two degrees compared to pre-industrial levels. The dynamics of climate negotiations are also new. It was the EU that started the global fight against climate change, but in recent months, the initiative has largely moved to Asian countries. China and India have submitted significant emissions reductions. Indonesia and South Korea have gone further. Brazil has made significant efforts on its part. Africa has a common platform for climate adaptation support, and not least, the United States is back on the multinational arena. In addition, about the entire globe has gained a broad commitment from civil society and business. It doesn't go one day without me meeting organizations, companies, trade unions, students, researchers, church communities and others who have set their own climate goals. As far as I know, all Norwegian bishops will participate in Copenhagen – to give an illustration. These are people who demand immediate and prompt action. This commitment will be followed up by a broad participation in Copenhagen. It's a great Norwegian delegation, and in addition, there will be hundreds, thousands of players from business and civil society down there. The road to Copenhagen started in Bali two years ago. Here, countries agreed to conduct the negotiation process in two stages. On the one hand, we need a continuation of the Kyoto Protocol. Norway wants it to continue, alongside, or preferably integrated into a broader agreement. The strength of the Kyoto Protocol is that it is legally binding. It has consequences for countries if they cancel their part of the agreement or do not keep the agreement. Other good aspects of the Kyoto Protocol are that they contain quantitative emission ceilings and flexible mechanisms. But the Kyoto Protocol is not alone enough to achieve our long-term objectives. That is why, at the same time, we are negotiating a broader agreement with emissions reduction commitments also for the United States and for advanced developing countries. The most fundamental weakness of the Kyoto Protocol was that neither the United States nor countries like China and India had any part in it. We also need an agreement that responds to the enormous need of the developing countries for funding, help for adaptation and technology transfer. Since the Bali Summit, progress has been made in many important areas. Measures to reduce deforestation, as regards climate adaptation measures, not least in poor countries, as regards cooperation on the transfer of technologies to developing countries, and as regards climate finance systems. However, there is still a long way to go to agree on the key issues such as emission reductions for the rich developed countries, funding for climate action, the kind of action to be taken by the most advanced developing countries and their international status. Unfortunately, in Copenhagen, it is unlikely that it will be possible to agree on a credible agreement that embraces all the negotiating issues, as Norway has worked for, works for and will continue to work for. To that, there are too many loose threads in the negotiations and too much disagreement about the form of an agreement. The strategy for the Copenhagen meeting must first be to ‘seal’ the consensus on what we have on the table so far. This must be done in the form of a political commitment, so that countries cannot go back on it in retrospect. It must therefore not be a loose declaration of suitability by Heads of State, but a clear, binding political agreement. Secondly, we need to adopt a process aimed at bringing the result into a legally binding form. This must take place immediately after the Copenhagen meeting, with the aim of ensuring that it takes place as early as possible in 2010. Norway has always been a champion of strong, committed international environmental legislation. A ratifyable international agreement cannot be easily reversed at the next crossroads in any country. For Norway, there are some overall key elements that need to be included in a new global climate agreement: Firstly, the agreement must be based on the scientific knowledge in force at all times. In the long term, all countries and all sectors must be subject to a new agreement with effective compliance mechanisms. Furthermore, the agreement should contain a long-term objective of limiting the growth of the global average temperature to 2 °C compared to the pre-industrial level. The agreement must target significant emission reductions both for 2020, in order to immediately speed up the technological revolution that we need, and for 2050, in order to solve the problem in the long term. The agreement must also provide for increased and predictable financing of emission reductions and adaptation measures in developing countries and, in particular, must provide assistance to the least developed and most vulnerable countries. The agreement must contain a strengthened global carbon market. Furthermore, the Copenhagen Agreement must agree on a rapid negotiation process in order to design a credible international agreement. The mandate of this negotiation process must have a clear objective and a clear timetable for such an agreement. Finally, but not least: when we know that the Copenhagen meeting will not fully solve the long-term climate problems, there must also be a clear expectation that in the years following the Copenhagen meeting we will not succeed in Copenhagen. Alarming research findings in recent years suggest that climate change is even faster than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimated in 2007. The evolution of global average temperature is in the upper reaches of the projections of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The growth of global greenhouse gas emissions is far from what has been estimated. If evolution continues in this way, we are at risk of global warming between four and six degrees. Climate change to such an extent will have dramatic consequences. The British Meteorological Institute, together with the Hadley Centre and the Tyndall Centre, has recently described the consequences of a global temperature increase of four degrees. They say that about a billion people will have major problems related to fresh water. Asia's water supply will be particularly vulnerable. Global food security will be considerably reduced, and hundreds of millions of people are at risk of starvation. Elsewhere, water, rainfall and extreme weather will create problems with floods, devastating storms and sea level rises. Several low-lying island states, such as Maldives, could disappear completely. Let me quote the President of Maldives, who has taken an international front role in the fight against climate change: we do not want to replace a paradise with a camp for climate refugees. Although there is a growing consensus on a 2-degree target, it is far from agreeing on how this objective should be converted into concrete international commitments for countries and developing countries in a new agreement. There are three issues which make it particularly difficult to establish a new agreement: Firstly, the emissions cuts that developed countries have put on the table for 2020 are far from ambitious enough to reach the 2-degree target. Secondly, the major developing countries — China, India, Brazil and others — have been reluctant to commit internationally to emission reductions if they are not financed by developed countries. Thirdly, there are not enough promises on the table to finance emission reduction and climate adaptation measures in developing countries. The United States has a key role in Copenhagen. I am absolutely convinced that the Obama administration wants the United States to be part of a new agreement. The challenge is to get the United States to commit internationally to concrete and ambitious emission reductions, in line with other developed countries. The United States does not want to repeat what happened in Kyoto, where, as everyone remembers, Al Gore committed the United States – but it was not possible to get it through in Congress afterwards. This time the United States will make sure that there is necessary support in Congress before they finally commit. The United States will also require countries such as China and India to commit themselves to real emission reductions. In Copenhagen, the United States will demand that the obligations of China and other major developing countries be brought under legal review, in the same way as the commitment of the United States. There is no bold prediction to say that it will not be acceptable for countries like China, India and Brazil. Finding a compromise between the US demands for non-discrimination here and the demands of China, India, Brazil and other countries for common but differentiated obligations will be the main challenge in Copenhagen. Industrialised countries, with only 18 pst. by the population of the world, stands for almost 40 pst. of world emissions. To achieve the 2-degree target, industrialised countries need to reduce their emissions by 25-40pst. by 2020, compared to 1990 levels. At best, the input of the countries on emission reductions by 2020 is halfway to this target. There is a great deal to be done to bring new emissions to Copenhagen, because this requires national processes. Obama must anchor it in Congress. The Chinese have anchored their emission targets in a broad process of their social system. An Indian Prime Minister who goes beyond his mandates in Copenhagen will face criticism at home for selling out his Indian interests. So the heads of state come with a significant amount of commitments they have got at home, and not with great room for action to do completely new things in Copenhagen. At the same time, there is disagreement in the negotiations on the future of flexible mechanisms, such as quota trading and the green development mechanism. Norway, of course, believes that it is completely irrelevant to the atmosphere where emissions reduction is taking place in the world. The enormous investment needs to ensure a transition to a climate-friendly society must be largely met by the private sector. To do this, we need a well-functioning global carbon market. Norway is working actively to maintain the market mechanisms we have today, while at the same time developing new market mechanisms. This allows Norway and other countries to assume ambitious numerical obligations. It also contributes to important funding and, hopefully, also technology transfer to developing countries. At the same time, it must be clear that the most advanced developing countries must also themselves implement the simplest and cheapest measures, as China and India, for example, have promised in terms of energy efficiency improvement. There must also be a reasonable burden-sharing between industrialised countries. The US bill has an emission target corresponding to an emission reduction of about 3 pst. in 2020 compared to 1990. Norway is and will continue to be clear that this is not good enough, given the ability and responsibility of the United States to contribute. At the same time, we must recognise that the United States is struggling with the aftereffects of eight years with an administration that first denied and then would not do anything about climate change, and that the United States has had a rapid population growth in the period that Europe, for example, has not had. The most positive thing in the US bill is that it adds up to a path that goes all the way to an emission reduction of 80 pst. in 2050, and with clear ambitions also for 2025 and 2030. This will be in line with the emission reductions necessary to achieve a 2 degree target. So the long-term American commitments are very good to say about; the short-term ones are not enough. The danger is, of course, that if you do not have enough short-term obligations, there will not be enough pressure on the necessary technological change. One important issue in the negotiations that makes it difficult is that Russia has a large surplus of allowances from the Kyoto Protocol’s first commitment period. It's a lot of industry that was shut down after the fall of the Berlin Wall after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and it's quotas that they might want to use themselves, or that they can sell internationally. This issue alone will mean a great deal to international commitments, and we need to ensure a solution that does not undermine the environmental impact of a new agreement. Norway has delivered ambitious targets. We have provided money for climate action such as reducing deforestation, climate adaptation and capacity building in developing countries through the aid budget, coordinating the environment and aid more than any other country, and we have developed a proposal to provide long-term funding for climate adaptation in developing countries. Through the over-fulfilment of the Kyoto Agreement, Norway contributes to the financing of emission reduction measures in developing countries. We have taken this over-fulfilment on a voluntary basis to contribute to early emission reductions and to Norway’s contribution to development and poverty reduction in the countries where the measures are implemented. In general, climate policy will focus on measures that have a positive impact both on climate change mitigation and on the preservation of natural diversity. 2010 is the International Year of Natural Diversity, and it is important that, in the period following the Copenhagen meeting, we bring these two global environmental issues together. In the negotiations, Norway as the only country has said unreservedly that we want to reduce emissions by 30 pst. in 2020 compared to 1990. We will also strengthen this objective so that it corresponds to a cut in emissions of 40 p.m., if it can contribute to an agreement on an ambitious climate agreement where the large emitters assume concrete commitments. As part of a global and ambitious agreement in which other developed countries also assume a high level of commitments, Norway shall have a binding carbon neutrality target by 2030. The Norwegian targets require the use of flexible mechanisms. In the context of the Storting climate agreement, it was agreed that it is realistic to have a target of reducing emissions in Norway by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in relation to the reference track as presented in the 2007 national budget, when inclusion in Norwegian forest is included. In order to ensure that we have the right tools, the Government has brought down the Climate Change 2020 Group, which will assess how we can achieve the 2020 target of Norwegian emission reductions. This will present its setting early in the New Year. On that basis, the Government will present proposals to the Stortinget on how we can achieve our emissions targets at home in 2020. A comprehensive description of national climate policy is not the subject of this presentation. For the poorest developing countries, such as small island countries or African countries, it is totally unreasonable to talk about emission reductions, because they almost do not have emissions. On the other hand, they need support for climate-friendly development in order to prevent economic growth of the same type as we have had. It is the major developing countries – China in particular, but also India, Brazil, Indonesia and South Africa – that must first and foremost commit themselves to low-emission development. Many of these countries take climate issues very seriously and work nationally for large emission reductions. China aims to reduce carbon intensity by 40-45 pst. by 2020 compared to 2005. India has put forward similar plans with slightly lower numbers, and in China, 15 pst. energy supply comes from sources that do not use fossil fuels. I don't think it's a bold claim that China is going to be the world leader in many environmental technologies in a very short time. But also a country that Indonesia has presented very ambitious climate targets, and Brazil and South Korea have done the same — to mention some important newly industrialised countries, or developing countries. Costa Rica's goal is to become carbon neutral, just like Norway. Norway is working to ensure that measures and plans in developing countries can be incorporated into an international agreement. We support the EU's and others' proposals for developing low-carbon national strategies, which are then presented internationally as a basis for further follow-up. Such strategies will include both actions carried out by countries themselves with their own resources and actions supported internationally. Of course, it is very important to establish good measurement and reporting systems for this. But this is and will be one of the most difficult issues in Copenhagen. Support from developed countries for technology development is a key element in triggering emission reduction measures in developing countries. I believe that industrialised countries and developing countries have a common interest in strengthening their efforts to produce better technologies. India has proposed the setting-up of regional climate technology centres, where countries and developing countries can cooperate on technology development, where businesses and the public sector meet and where best technology is concentrated in given areas, without any particular definition, for example. a solar industry centre in India, one for the wind industry in China and one for the biomass industry in Brazil, to illustrate the very process of thinking. Norway has supported this approach, but money will be provided for it, and it will be implemented in practice. I would also like to take the initiative to go through Norwegian assistance in order to provide it with a much clearer climate component. We're leading here, but we still have a long way to go both by making all Norwegian assistance more climate-relevant, make sure that we don't do things that are crazy, and by going up the border with regard to what is climate assistance. If we do not resolve the climate crisis, it will over time strengthen the world's poverty problems. An example of what we're doing is that the government, together with Scatec Solar and Indian partners, has begun to expand solar power in Indian villages. I was in an Indian village called Rampura not long ago. You actually saw what this means, a very good development. Children can start reading lessons in the evening for the first time after dark. Imagine if our children could not read lessons after six o'clock! That means a lot. It provides a basis for small-scale industries, but of course it is also an excellent climate action. Some climate change is already inevitable. From the dawn of time, people have always adapted to the climate. When God sent the great storm to mankind, Noah built his ark to save people from climate change, or the cyclone, at that time. In Guyana, for example, flood protection and marine protection systems hundreds of years ago. Climate change is not creating completely new conditions. All are the problems humanity has faced at all times — floods, extreme weather, drought disasters — the role of climate change is to be the great amp of these problems. Think about a music system – it means a lot, even if you play the same music as before, but turn up the volume ten times. Climate change is a significant additional burden for societies that are already struggling to meet basic needs such as food security and access to water. It is the poorest on the planet that is hit hardest by climate change. Half a meter of sea level rise will lead to 20 million people moving in Bangladesh. These are the poorest inhabitants of the most remote part of the Bengal delta. Not surprisingly, the need for climate adaptation is the main theme of the poorest developing countries in Copenhagen. Our task is to support and strengthen the capacity and resilience of the poorest and most vulnerable countries to meet climate change. This adaptation must take place primarily at national and local level. For centuries many developing countries have had tradition and history to deal with natural disasters, but they need to be strengthened and helped when the challenges become even greater. This costs. New estimates made by the World Bank indicate that the cost of climate change adaptations in developing countries is in the order of $100 billion a year over the next 20 years. In Copenhagen, Norway will work in particular for a framework to meet the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable countries. These countries must receive substantial and predictable support for adaptation. This must be in addition to, not instead, today's assistance. There is a great danger that many countries will recycle funds by taking the amounts they have already given, moving them over to another part of the table and promising them again. This is unacceptable. Norway has shown its way by providing all climate assistance in addition to the initial assistance. Norway is an important player in climate negotiations, but nevertheless a small player. We're not China, we're not America. A small country such as Norway has the most influence if we focus our resources on areas where we can make a special contribution from our background. We have therefore placed particular emphasis on international shipping, on financing, on measures to halt deforestation in developing countries and on the use of carbon capture and storage. As far as shipping is concerned, Norway is working for a new global climate regime to cover emissions from both international shipping and aviation. International shipping emits as much CO2 as Germany and emissions have increased. For Norway, some estimates show that the emissions from Norwegian owned boats are not as far from being equal to all other Norwegian emissions combined. Emissions from shipping should be included in a new global climate regime through a decision in Copenhagen with a level of ambition similar to that of the agreement. About 75 pst. World fleet registered in developing countries. The further follow-up to ensure that emission reductions are implemented should be carried out by the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the International Maritime Organisation, because there can be a global regulatory framework for ships that also include developing countries. The dilemma in this area is the importance of climate negotiations for common but differentiated commitments – i.e. not all countries should have the same obligations. However, it is difficult to imagine anything other than the non-discrimination of ships in terms of shipping. 75 pst. of the world fleet is in developing countries. It is impossible for Norway to imagine a system where, for example: is a difference between the obligations of a Norwegian owned boat registered in Liberia and Panama, which is a developing country, and a Norwegian owned boat registered in Norway. The balance between this non-discrimination in terms of such emissions and the system of common but differentiated obligations required by developing countries will be the major challenge in the field of shipping. The principles should be laid down in Copenhagen and the practical implementation of the UN Maritime Organisation. With regard to funding, we do not get an agreement in Copenhagen without a system that ensures sufficient and predictable financial support for climate action and adaptation to climate change in developing countries. The needs may be up to several hundred billion dollars a year in 2020, based on the analyses of the UNFCCC. The EU and the International Energy Agency have estimated the need for about 150-200 billion dollars. These aren't exact numbers, but they're saying something about the order of magnitude. In order to provide the necessary financial resources, Norway has proposed the international auctioning of a share of allowances to developed countries and the use of revenues to support developing countries. This proposal respects the polluter-pays principle, ensuring predictability by not having to be adopted from year to year in national budgetary processes. The solution may be combined with national payments to funds, which have been proposed by, inter alia, Member States. Mexico. The Prime Minister has been in contact with the President of Mexico, Calderón, to look at the possibilities for joint initiatives in this area. I believe it is important that the governance of international work on climate policy remains within the UN Convention on Climate Change. The UNFCCC should set standards, develop strategies and recognise objectives, but the UNFCCC shall not be responsible for implementing actions on the ground. Others have to take care of that. The implementation should be implemented by national states and by the already existing organisations within the UN system and the World Bank, so that we do not waste much time establishing new organisations with new bureaucracy. At the same time, we need to be careful about creating new institutions. It'll take time to get these up, and we can lose a lot of valuable time. The important thing is that we need to set very high standards of backwardness and reliability with regard to their management and control of funding, and support for emission reductions should be based on results, as we work with the forestry effort. I also imagine that the idea of results-based assistance is something that we should consider whether we can't implement in several areas of assistance. Whatever the outcome in Copenhagen, it will take time for a new climate finance system to be in place. The EU has therefore proposed that countries also contribute money until 2013, in the range of EUR 5 to 7 billion. I believe it is important to get an early start, in particular to support developing countries in capacity building in order to implement climate action and initiate necessary planning processes. Norwegian funding for forest management is an important contribution to such a start-up. Nearly one-fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions originate from deforestation in developing countries. Without stopping deforestation, it will be very difficult to solve the climate challenge. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg presented the Government's climate and forest initiative at Bali in December 2007. Norway has since worked to present a comprehensive proposal for a forest mechanism as part of the Copenhagen agreement. There is reason to believe that forest measures in developing countries should be an important part of the agreement, even if there is still work to be done on details. But unless everything becomes dependent on everything in Copenhagen, forest is one of the most important things we have ever done in order to reach an agreement. Together with a number of other countries, we have looked at the possibilities of financing forest conservation in developing countries during the period before a new climate agreement is fully implemented. An international working group has estimated that if around EUR 20 billion is put on the table over the next five years, we can prevent emissions of 7 billion tonnes of CO2 in total. This corresponds to the total annual emissions of China. It is the desperate greatest possible emission reduction in the near future. To succeed, money, good governance and good governance are needed. Until such an international climate regime is in place, the Government's climate and forest effort is already contributing to valuable preparation and learning. Brazil, with its Amazon Fund, has developed a system to finance projects that can contribute to reducing deforestation, including alternative and sustainable pathways. Brazil’s President, Lula, recently presented very happy figures showing a sharp decline in the deforestation of the Amazon. Norway’s strong commitment to the Amazon Fund has contributed to this positive development. Let me say in plain language that no individual measure implemented by any nation is close to having the climate effect that Brazil's reduced deforestation. The rate of deforestation is also a quarter of what it was just seven years ago – a fantastic result and huge amounts of carbon saved, as well as the importance of natural diversity. Indonesia, which together with Brazil is the largest forest nation, has also presented very ambitious targets for drastic reductions in its deforestation, but these could hardly take place without significant international funding. Another important example is Guyana, a small country that has had little deforestation. But the danger is that if the countries that have had a lot of deforestation reduce theirs, the pressure may increase on those who have had little deforestation. Guyana has 75 pst. forest cover and have had close to zero deforestation. I was in Guyana in November and signed an agreement that Norway will support Guyana financially if it succeeds in maintaining its large rain forest reserves. When we support Guyana, it sends a signal to developing countries that we are willing to pay for the effort if developing countries succeed in limiting the emissions of tropical forests. Guyana, on its side, shows that developing countries are willing to do their part. The agreement between Norway and Guyana is the first overall agreement in its kind between an industrialised country and a developing country. We believe that it can eventually become a model for similar bilateral agreements. Let me also mention to Stortinget that, during my visit to Indonesia last week, we started a process with Indonesia to look at the possibility of a bilateral agreement in this area also between Norway and Indonesia. Norway's main theme in Copenhagen: We believe that in order to reduce emissions, we need to increase the share of renewable energy. We need to increase efforts to improve energy efficiency, but we also need a wide use of carbon capture and storage. Norway has worked long to allow carbon capture and storage projects in developing countries to be approved under the Kyoto Protocol. We have also proposed a new mechanism to speed up the storage of CO2 where it is possible, which is particularly important for a number of major industrial sources. Substantial resources have been allocated at national level to develop this important technology. Such technology development also benefits the world community. At this stage, it is little time for developing countries to take part in the carbon capture and storage technology when many locations develop the industrial process CO2 that can be stored directly, without separating it from the other gases, as we try to do in Mongstad. That's what I'm talking about right now. In the longer term, it is clear that Mongstad is successful in developing technology and making it a price that makes it applicable to other countries, which is the success criterion for carbon capture and storage. Finally, in 1944, the Bretton Woods Conference provided a basis for post-war international rules, procedures and institutions. The purpose was to steer away from the economic collapse of the kind that had created the great depression and laid the basis for World War II. In Copenhagen – 65 years later – ambitions are at least as big and fundamental, and the task may be more difficult. This time it is a matter of slowing down and managing away from dangerous anthropogenic climate change that threatens housing, food supply, health and safety. In 1944, the summit consisted of 44 allied nations that intended to represent «nearly all the peoples of the world». For the week, more than 190 countries meet with very different conditions to agree on common objectives and a fair distribution of burdens and costs. It is an agreement that will affect all industries and the economy of all countries, whether you are rice farmers in China or Indonesia, whether you are in the Google headquarters in San Francisco, whether you are Norwegian oil workers or teachers – everyone will be affected by the agreement. That's exactly why it's hard to reach. There is an unparalleled agreement with regard to interest and mobilisation, both inside and outside the meeting rooms and government offices. While not all questions can be resolved and met within two weeks in Copenhagen, the foundations of the international climate architecture of the future could be drawn up, as Bretton Woods drew up the guidelines for international economic architecture. This will happen in the sight of an entire world. We owe ourselves, our children and our grandchildren, to succeed in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e265	The President will propose that the Minister of the Environment and Development report on the status and progress of climate negotiations be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e282	On 7 October 2009 the Stortinget decided unanimously to endorse the recommendation of the Powers Committee at the Innst. 1 S for 2009-2010 to approve the mandates of all elected representatives. Therefore, it may seem strange that we are dealing with a complaint at this time, but the reason is that the complaint is too late from the municipality of Ski. The complaint concerns a selector who was pre-checked, as the voter would vote for the roll call vote on the election day. The selector himself believes that he had only voted for the merger choice, not for the magnification choice. The selector delivered his voice, and it is logged as rejected and forwarded to the County Election Board along with other electoral material. The National Electoral Board has decided that the appeal is not admissible and the Committee has no comments on the decision of the National Electoral Board. However, in the form of a comment, the Committee has clarified the importance of follow-up by the Ministry to the municipalities, so that in the future a person does not feel that complaints remain in the municipality for a long time. It will in practice make the review process less relevant. Therefore, the Committee's position is that the decision of the National Election Board is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e295	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 704]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e312	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee deals with the budgetary context of the Royal House, the Stortinget, the Defence Ombudsman, the Administrative Ombudsman of the Stortinget – or the Civil Ombudsman – the Swedish Parliamentary Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service – the EOS Committee – and the National Audit Office. For 2010, no significant changes were proposed in the apanage of the royal family, with the exception of a certain increase for the Crown Prince Couple due to new calculations of the costs associated with the maintenance of the Skagum and the need for a certain strengthening of the staff there. The overall size frame has not been changed in this setting. However, the size adopted amendments to the guidelines for the allocation of the batch aid for the treatment of the Innst. 36 S for 2009–2010, which resulted in additional overheads. 41, item 70, corresponding to NOK 1015 000. The decision was taken before the Financial Committee gave its budgetary position, but the change was not taken into account in the financial situation. In the light of the change in the rules, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee as a whole is proposing to cover the additional cost. 41, heading 70 by an equivalent reduction on cap. 41, item 45, Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance. The Committee has also noted that the budget of the Grand Duchy has increased by nearly 90 p.m. over the last 10 years, and this growth must be seen in the context of the 2010 draft budget, which represents a moderate increase in the appropriations compared with 2009. The budget for the Ombudsman’s defence department is increasing somewhat in relation to the 2009 budget due to work on the renewal and upgrading of electronic security equipment and some improvements in the physical security of the premises of the Ombudsman’s defence department. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for administration has a great deal of appeals from citizens. The primary task of the Civil Ombudsman is to monitor that there is no injustice or error against the citizens of the State of the public administration. It is also important that the Civil Ombudsman maintains a high level of outbound activity. Thus, the allocation to the Civil Ombudsman has increased somewhat, mainly to ensure that the Civil Ombudsman has sufficient resources to carry out control, follow-up, organisation and outreach activities. The intelligence, surveillance and security service control committee of the EEAS has a wide field of work and controls both civil and military intelligence and security services. The EOS Committee must replace most of its classified computer facilities and parts of the unupgraded computer system. At the same time, the Committee has noted that over time the EOS Committee will need to strengthen its staff, primarily in order to ensure competence in relation to new technological challenges. The appropriations for the National Audit Office have been proposed to be increased by 26.3 million. kr in relation to the 2009 budget. The National Audit Office has an important role to play as the Supervisory Body of the Storting. The National Audit Office reports are important for the follow-up of the Supervisory Authority by the Storting. The Committee's position is unanimous, but both the Right and the Advance Party have special comments. The Progress Party refers to the financial position, where it was proposed to cut the funding for group aid by 30 million. kr, and that the Progress Party was against the change in rules adopted by the Stortinget in the treatment of Innst. 36 S for 2009-2010. On the right hand, reference has been made to the financial position in which the party proposes to reduce public administration and bureaucracy, including: with a cut of 20 million. kr in the budget of the National Audit Office. To the extent that there is a need for further comments or reasons, I assume that the respective parties themselves present their views. In addition to these comments, the Committee's position is unanimous and this is what it proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 4–6 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 704]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e385	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to four lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies after submissions by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e396	Let me first thank the Committee on Effective Progress in the Examination of the Budget. I would also like to thank the Committee for having made good progress, and then we have to take the political disagreements in the debate. After a brief introduction, I will present the comments and proposals of the Progress Party. Then I expect the other parties to explain their comments and suggestions. The wording of the recommendation states that there is no disagreement in the Committee as to whether there is a need for increased resources in the field of justice. That consensus, of course, is based on the focus on the security of life and property. All parties also want increased efforts, but then you might be able to read from the setting that there may be a slight difference in the perception of reality – but it may not be of the big thing either. The government has proposed increased resources in the field of justice. It's very important and has been wanted in Stortinget for many, many years. But then it might be that when you get a lift in this area, at least the Progress Party would say that it might just be agreeing to take back some of the aftermath that lies within the whole chain of criminal law. That's where the Progress Party is a little bit different from the majority, because we think we can't put in any rest cutting now because we've taken back some of the lag. That is where we in the Progress Party actually feel that we have had a significant impact also in the area of justice, especially on the fact that civil operators are now entering into and taking over tasks specifically on the administration section, which will hopefully then be shown – now, of course, it remains to be seen whether it provides operational women and men in service among the majority of people. When I say that it remains to be seen, I have also said on the way that I will at least give the Minister of Justice some time of peace to see if it shows results. But it's not just about the government, it's not just about politics either. It is also important that the police themselves now have to show results from the increased resources that have come. Of course, it has to be measured against what might happen to the other side – the negative side, i.e. increased crime – but some results and some progress have to be expected when you invest that kind of resources. I don't think we'll immediately see the big results from increased education, which is very important. Although considerable new resources are being invested and civilians take over some of the administrative tasks, we know that around the police districts there are still gaps. That is why it leads me to say that perhaps a little lag in some areas in the field of justice, which may turn out to be choking and challenging in other areas. I don't like the expression 'police is going to produce', but I'm using it to simplify the debate anyway. Everyone understands that if we expect the police to produce more now, there will also be larger tasks for other institutions, like our courts. There are messages to the Committee that say that there will be major challenges here next year, because there is a shortage of resources in that area. At least the Progress Party in its alternative budget has proposed increased appropriations. We in the Progress Party see and feel that the Government and also other parties have partly followed up the desire of the Progress Party to get seniors more involved in the work within the police. Here, at least, the undersigned believes that there is a greater potential, and that we must seek to intensify that work much more. The government and the minister eventually got to an agreement with the police, which I would almost call a peace agreement, and it will also be renegotiated in the period 2011-2012. I don't think we can expect that we can have policemen and politicians who work hard, or that they use their leisure time, as they have volunteered in this context. Here, the police have actually said that they could have done something more if you had to get into a precarious situation, and that's good to hear from that professional. Although we have varied feedback from different cities and districts that crime is rising and falling, in some areas we have seen that with a different kind of effort you can reduce. I think it's a lot to learn by using the resources we already have today, in a different way – coordinating a lot more and getting much more borderless efforts against crime. There I think we have a lot to go on. It is also in the position of the Progress Party in this context. There is no doubt that crime still will, I would almost say, modernise. As borders become more and more open, they will become more and more challenging as well, and new methods will be used by criminals. That's why we have to make sure that the police can change quickly and move their resources where they can attack and defeat crime. There's a lot to get to take out more police force. This applies to personnel, but not least to equipment. In this context, I am not going to discuss newspaper headlines this week that tells how ridiculous it can really be in some areas of the police for equipment. We have been informed that we prefer to use a fax, and we have been informed that Kripos is called instead of operating. The police have cars that cannot be used for arrest, because there is no room for the arrester, etc. It's clear that these are things that we should definitely do something with pretty fast. This applies not least to ICT. If there are some places where the Progress Party has put in some increased appropriations, there is investment. That's 270 million. kr in addition to what has been proposed for equipment, ICT, armoured cars, border trucks, etc. I am afraid that even if you get an increase in the operating budgets now, a lot of it will also agree to invest in new equipment and modernise the equipment. It is clear that when you get in perhaps 1,000 new officials and women, they also need equipment. If it is to be eaten by the operating budget, it will – I fear – be reduced to initial investment and modern equipment. So we've added 260 million. extra for operation in order to provide action rooms, not least, but also for employing all the persons who are standing there today and can be hired overnight. I have tried to get an overview of that. I don't seem to succeed in any particular way, but I'm going to pursue it. So it's also like looking at other structures. So we've added 20 million. extra to the Police College, to extraordinary classes, in order perhaps to train personnel who can take the commercial functions as soon as possible, in order to get more operational into the public. We also want to strengthen the Oslo police force. We see that there have now been large extra appropriations in connection with a certain visit. We know that the Oslo police are facing extraordinary tasks, and we are afraid that the appropriations that lie there are too small in the long term. Then we will once and for all beat the myth that the Progress Party is not interested in criminal matters. We're increasing the appropriations by 60 million. kr, and there is nothing new from the Progress Party, but we will state that if we are to have good rehabilitation, we must also ensure good security and upgrading of the institutions. That's the Progress Party willing to do. Also non-governmental organisations, such as WayBack and Red Cross receive extra funding from the Advance Party, while KRUS receives 10 million. kr However, we will state that it will still be the victims who will have to focus their main focus on the policy of the Progress Party on justice, and therefore we will try again and allocate 2 million. kr to a representative of the victims and relatives. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is or is with others, and at the same time I would like to signal that the Progress Party will support proposal No. 18 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e428	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e433	Although the Progress Party has not made suggestions to close the UP in this setting, the representative Sandberg has taken the order to drop the UP quite a number of times. It's pretty eye-catching. The party of progress is happy to present itself as the law and order party, and launches the slogan security for life and property. We know that high speed and heavy speed lead to many accidents and fatal accidents along our roads. So now the Progress Party will replace UP with photo boxes. Yes, understand who can. When I listen to the representatives from the Progress Party of the Transport Committee, the representatives of whom are busy are traffic safety. I noticed that the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, also did not have the order to cancel the UP. Does this mean that the representative Sandberg is in favour of his own in this matter, or is there a collective party behind this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e442	I'm very happy to get that question. I have led the Programme Committee to the Progress Party and I know what lies behind the formulation of ‘putting the UP down’ in our programme setting. That's exactly what the Labour Party has wanted before, two or three times, when they've said that they want to shut down the UP. That doesn't mean the Workers' Party was going to shut down the UP in its time, but they wanted to reorganize it. That's exactly what the Progress Party wants today. There is so much competence and quality in the law enforcement system today, so I believe that they should concentrate their resources on serious crime – investigate crime to a much greater extent than they actually do today. Then others get to do the road safety problems. I record that you are very concerned that you should take away from the Traffic Surveillance Police. It's in this context that I've said it's interesting, because you don't blunder when you delegate these tasks to a photo box. That's why I've been kind of humorous about saying that at least a photo box hasn't been in the police high school for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e447	Earlier this fall, the Progress Party launched a proposal that pedophiles should be castrated. The proposal came up in connection with the handkerchief case. Professionals believe that castration itself will not prevent new abuses. My question to the representative Sandberg is: Does the Progress Party hold fast to this proposal, and will you introduce castration of all those convicted of rape, in order to prevent the convicted from committing new rapes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e454	I'm also happy to get that question. The Progress Party has not yet made a proposal, but we are very likely to do so. That is what we want to do in the light of the fact that we are acquiring information and competence. Our starting point is that we believe that child abuse is the worst crime that exists, and therefore we are also willing to take the worst preventive measures to stop that kind of development. Then castration is an opportunity. Some countries have done so. We also have a pilot project that shows that this might turn out positive, and then the Progress Party is willing to use these means to fight that kind of crime. Whether or not to extend it to rape in general, the Progress Party has not debated yet, but I think it is an interesting discussion to address it as well. Violence against women is equally evil in this context, and we will use the worst methods of stopping this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e461	Most of the progress made by the party tends to cut the alcohol tax in its alternative budgets. In the current year's budget, the figure was 670 million. kr, but we see that this cut is not within next year's budget. We know what alcohol consumption — uncontrolled at least — means. This means heavy loads on the person and his circle of associates and on the health service, and there is a need for law enforcement, etc. When the Progress Party now takes a restrictive line in alcohol policy, I have the following questions: Has the Progress Party seen the other parties for the longest time? Is it now that the Party's alcohol policy will be much more restrictive than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e466	No, the policy of the Progress Party is firm. Alcohol is a legal product and must be treated accordingly. We continue to aim for Norway to adapt its charging system to the countries around us in terms of alcohol as well. But then it's like the Progress Party, like the Swedish Labour Party, has realized that we're in a financial crisis, and that there's a little bit of unrest around the financial markets. That is why we have made an exception in our budgeting for 2010, in the same way as the Government has done, and as all other parties have done. We have prioritised a little different in 2010 than we have done in the past, but there is no confirmation that in 2011, 2012 or 2013, we may again present tax cuts on the alcohol side, like what we have done in the past. The policy is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e471	We are many who are occupied by the police and the structure of the police districts around the whole country. I have noticed that both the Right Party and the Progress Party have used quite a lot of words when it comes to the reorganisation process in Follo Police District, and have also strongly called for answers from the Government on what they think. Then one, from both the Right and the Advance Party, has made it possible in the budgetary process to give a clear indication of what they think. The signals I can't read from the budgetary comments of the Progress Party. I want a very clear answer to where they want to be, given that they have previously wanted to be expressed exactly as they want to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e477	Of course, in a budgetary position, everything we have said and meant over the last three or four years could be written in. Then it had become a very difficult life. The representative, Klinge, is quite used to what comes from the Transport Committee, where we have several sides to deal with. Here, of course, the Progress Party, just like the Right Party, which then gets to answer for itself, has adopted the priorities that we set at the top of 2010, in line with what all the other parties have done. But our policy on police districts and structural changes is, of course, firm, even though it is not bound by comments and suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e485	Safety and order shall apply to all in all parts of the country, whether on the Furuset or at Akerselva in Oslo, or in Lærdal, Hammerfest, Fredrikstad, Larvik or Sandnes. It is essential for a good and safe society – especially for the vulnerable groups – that we are strong and capable of preventing and combating crime. More than ever, the police appear to be a fundamental social foundation that is getting bigger and more difficult tasks. When we face international, mobile gangs of profit-criminal, gross entry, trafficking and trafficking in human beings, child pornography and assault, cybercrime, bank card fraud, increasingly harsh environments, restaurant crime, networks of money-launderers and insiders, environmental crime, terrorism, new drug networks with new routes, etc., the police are the ones who need to see. It requires resources and competence and reorganization, and the voters are rightly concerned that the police are going to do their job. That is why there was an important witness to the leader of the Police Joint Union, Arne Johannessen, who recently attended their national meeting, saying that many have made great promises, but no government in recent times has delivered in this way. While the League of Police demanded 200 civilian posts, the government came this year with 460 and the funds to continue this effort in the budget for next year. While there were 240 students at the Police College in 2003 and the Joint League had required a maximum of 670, the government parties are increasing the number of students at the Police College in next year's budget to 720. While the settlement queues in the past caused the police to worry about what up to 3,000 convictions were waiting for a settlement, the queues have now been abolished. While many long-standing concerns about declining efforts and strong fronts in the police conflict, the parties finally got a good deal in place, which gives an impact of 230 years, and which we are going to deal with here today. The appropriations for this and much more so that the police and prosecution authorities will receive a budget commitment of NOK 1.2 billion until next year when price and salary increases have been deducted. The impact of the civil status of the police agreement, which has been provided for in the 2009 budget, and what is foreseen in the 2010 budget, would amount to about a total of about 1 %. 1 000 new years of police work in two years. But it's enough of the big problems to get started. And it is important and positive that both in the draft budget and in the committee's position there is a great deal of attention to the heavily organised crime, as we are looking at more and more areas, and how we are going to combat it. Firstly, as the Committee stresses, it is essential to see that organised crime is international and is cross-border. When we want to use the huge amount of research that the DNA reform in the police involves, and we're betting 117 million. In 2010, it is crucial for the results that last week the Minister of Justice was in Stockholm and signed the so-called Prüm Agreement, which means that the countries of EU judicial cooperation will be able to search each other's DNA registers, of course under strong privacy rules. It is very positive that, in the same way, the Government will be actively involved in what is known as the Stockholm Programme of Justice in EU cooperation, which involves a wide range of positive initiatives in the fight against international organised crime and is to be addressed at a summit meeting in December. This focuses on common strategies for preventing and averting terrorism. And we must remember that the danger is not over. It was e.g. In 2007, 600 attacks were either stopped or carried out in 11 EU countries. Joint efforts related to trafficking in human beings, child pornography and abuse shall be envisaged. And there is a great deal of emphasis on the new data crime, which the Committee also draws up in the budgetary position. The EU will develop a common legal framework for dealing with and responding to data crime, which is, of course, very cross-border and threatens the infrastructure of society as well as the individual's ID, bank card, PC, mobile phone and privacy. A first step that the EU has taken is to create a common framework for the storage of traffic data through the Data Storage Directive, which has a name that easily makes this a lonely thing. But if we forget the directive itself, and just ask whether we want to have a certain storage of traffic data, for example. for six or ten months, because it is a necessary tool for creating more security and combating gangs operating online with ID thefts, thefts and the sale of bank cards, with trafficking in human beings, child pornography, etc. If we ask ourselves whether we will have the opportunity to use this tool, i.e. to store traffic data, to pursue international drug networks, or to roll up mobile profit criminals and their activity over time, or if we go into many other types of organised crime where such investigation methods are needed, our approach will be fundamentally positive. However, in order to safeguard privacy and to avoid public surveillance, the police should not store traffic data. Unlike today, it must be clear that a court decision is needed, and serious crime must be committed in order for the police to obtain traffic data. The Labour Party has in many ways the same approach as the Right expresses in its budgetary position, saying that ‘in the investigation of the place of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law, these challenges must be conscious of privacy’. As the government parties write in the vote, the Minister of Justice has announced a big message about organised crime, in which many of the challenges that the Committee addresses will be addressed in full. We look forward to working with the opposition, who also wants such a message. We hope that we can find a better way to highlight this common interest than that the opposition is proposing a large-scale alert, for example. by joining forces to transmit today's proposal from the opposition. Another important point in the committee position is that we are concerned with results and measurement criteria for the police. How are we going to measure the great effort required against organized crime? We will encourage cooperation between many police districts. It will require weeks of joint efforts through testing, preparedness, international contacts, etc. where you may be able to stop an estimate in time, which will send out a huge signal to international criminal environments that you should not come and try here in the country. But how can this be measured in relation to the usual information statistics and records in criminal statistics? And what it's going to look like in the statistics in each district in relation to organized crime, in relation to reproduction projects, in relation to Kripos, etc.? Similarly, it may be difficult to measure the efforts of the police on-line in carrying out major operations and to make a major effort to prevent the use of computer bands both against individuals and against the infrastructure of society. It is easy to report on the number of reported cell phone thefts, which may well be so much that someone has messed up their phones, and all the notifications can lead to a low percentage of information, for example. for the Oslo Police Department. But it's more difficult to measure the heavy effort against the crime that most threatens society and the individual's security. The Minister of Justice has announced that he will be involved in the operational analysis that is now being carried out by six typical police districts and that he will develop, on the basis of these operational analyses, a work to focus on results and better use of resources in the police. When the opposition proposes a case to the Storting on measurement criteria and the government parties refer to the work that has been announced and that has been started, it will be positive and important that the entire committee now focuses on these issues, as the committee chairman did in his intervention here instead, and not just overwhelm each other with appropriations. In terms of resource use and the need for organisational development when the police are faced with new challenges, the parties make slightly different comments in the vote, including: on the reorganisation of Follo Police Districts. Everyone places emphasis on the proximity of the population, because it provides security, important prevention and local knowledge, while no one believes that there is a need for any place in the country to lock resources to be used in exactly the same way in the same number of offices as before. It is important to listen to the political assessments of how to combine presence and proximity with more mobility and the ability to better follow mobile criminal environments and organised crime. We at Stortinget are the first to respond if the police do not have the resources to follow up on such tasks, and we should be careful to address too many details about how the police find it appropriate to organise themselves locally. It was just responsive to the government, too, when recently there was a signal that there was a lack of custody facilities in the police districts. The need has increased for the pleasant reason that the police, among other things, have succeeded in taking several mobile profit criminals, as we heard the last day from Operation Borderless in Westfold, and as the project at Majorstua Police Station has also led to. It is a concern that the recruitment of 25 new return coordinators, posts to work with the return guarantee, has to be postponed until the end of the year, but we now receive a new class of 25 students at the KRUS, as it is called – the Education Centre of Criminal Services – where more places are needed, as a result of this conversion, as a result of the need for resources to create more custody places. This will give us 70 new custody sites in a month's time, and in February we will be up in 120 new custody sites. And when Halden Prison is fully used later, next year, the number of custody places there will at least meet the needs of the East in a good way, so that the temporary measures can gradually be phased out, and so that we can then enter and start the process of recruiting these 25 repatriation coordinators within the criminal justice system. Of course, the government is also following the situation with respect to custody sites in the rest of the country, and this will affect the manning analysis of the criminal services undertaken by the Government. I agree with what the Right says in the statement that it is important to keep an eye on the balance between police, prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice – which the chairman of the committee was also involved in his post here in the future – but as the criminal picture continues to develop, there is no phase in how that balance should be. Therefore, it is always necessary to calibrate the effort, as Finn Aamodt would say – just as the government is doing now when it intervenes in the situation with respect to custody sites. Many of these issues relating to the balance between the different parts of the system the Justice Committee has to deal with, we need to work with the future. There are many other key issues and challenges that are addressed in the setting, such as the relationship between psychiatry and the police, and how we can overcome the gap that may arise, for example. when a person is too unpredictable to be imprisoned by the police, nor is he mentally ill enough or is he taking serious or dramatic enough action to make use of mandatory mental health protection within the current rules. Around the country, serious incidents occur that have to do with the relationship between psychiatry and the police. Government parties therefore warn that a legislative proposal will be made to this effect until next year, while the opposition is promoting proposals for a roll-out report on much of the same. We believe that part of the serious and dramatic events we've had suggests that a bill is needed, and that you don't first have to walk the road to a big message. But it could probably be a boat-and-and. At least the Committee has a common intention. I would like to conclude by saying that the Committee has had an objective and constructive budgetary work, and it has been managed in a neat and good manner by the chairman of the committee. I recommend this setting as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e519	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e522	First, it is possible that I misunderstood – in case the representative of Bohemia will correct me – but when it comes to what he said about collecting traffic data, it is still the case that the courts decide first and foremost whether to collect that type of data. But I'd like to correct myself if I misunderstood. So to the question: in the setting, the entire committee is occupied by the rescue services, and in particular this with new rescue helicopters. The Committee is also represented in a very good report. But then there's a subsequent remark. In the joint opinion of the Committee, we say that this should be presented quickly, but the Right Party and the Advance Party want a timetable for this, so that there is some predictability in terms of purchasing and establishing and putting in place these new rescue helicopters. It's not the Workers' Party with it. So my question is, what is it that prevents the Workers' Party or government parties from participating in setting a timetable for predictability in the case of new rescue helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e529	To the first small comment that the representative Sandberg had, I just want to say that I have perceived it as a somewhat different practice when it comes to obtaining traffic data today, so that it is not fixed, in the way I mentioned, that you have to have court orders, etc. to do that. In the case of rescue helicopters, which is a very important issue, there is an investigation of the need to further define the basis for the procurement process. We will only see that investigation before we can be involved in finalising the progress of when we will be able to carry out the procurement process. But it's absolutely right that there's a great need for clarification, so I share that belief that it's not true here. We've seen reports in recent times that show this problem, and it can be expensive just to keep upgrading current material.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e538	The representative of Bohemia was in the Data Storage Directive and the storage of data and that only the police can retrieve the data that is stored. Data is stored elsewhere – there is data about your e-mail traffic, it is data about when and where you called, when and where you sent SMSes, and when and where you have been on the Internet. As I said, this data must be stored elsewhere than with the police. There is always a danger — and the danger is indeed great — that they may be exposed to unauthorised use. That's when data applies to everyone, and they haven't done anything wrong. Does not the representative of Bohemia and the Workers' Party see the danger of such data being extracted and misused?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e545	There will be strict rules for the storage of these traffic data in different companies, for example: Telenor and others. They must be subject to the approval of the Data Protection Authority, and there will, of course, be strict access controls and systems for that, as we will also go through in the context of the consultation on this Directive and the detailed design of the legislation around it. So the protection of privacy also at the point the representative points out becomes crucial when we say that there are privacy considerations that we will now place great emphasis on in the consultation round that will be before this is finally dealt with. I am concerned about what the representative is, but I am sure that there will also be good opportunities, as we have for other types of registration, to get safe procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e552	Finally, I can at least guarantee that the Right will demand that this be put in place so that we can support the Government at all in terms of the Data Storage Directive. So to the question, the Minister of Justice has three times notified the DNA revolution, first before the DNA reform, then one year after this, and now at the Prüm agreement. The right fully supports all of this, and we also want to focus more on the use of DNA in criminal matters. A lot has also been done – I'm going to commend it – but is the representative of Bohemia satisfied with the time it takes for the police to get answers when they submit trace material? What does he think is an acceptable analytical time? And he's satisfied with that up to 70 pst. the tests do not lead to anything because questions can be asked about how they are handled in Norway, as opposed to Sweden, such as the United Kingdom. The newspaper described this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e559	I'm not familiar with the number 70 pst. And the sources for it. I've heard a 50 pst number before. with regard to the use of DNA tracks. There are 3,000 policemen in Norway who are working on it, and I perceive that in many very important matters it has been a crucial tool. I therefore fully agree with the representative that it is important to ensure that the proceedings and responses to the police arrive quickly, and there should be a common issue in the Committee to follow up on this in the future. For the time being, the messages we have received have been that the resources are sufficient, and they are increasing by 12 million. kr to next year. This is a bet area, so we have the same interest as the representative Dahl in following it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e564	First of all, I would like to thank the representative from Bøhler for his contributions. The representative of Boehler was in the education sector, and I would like to ask a question about Politihøgskole. We in the Christian People's Party are happy to support the escalation, so that it is possible with several students, and we are also very pleased that the Committee stresses the need to move away from temporary solutions. But a bit of the challenge with several students is that there may be a danger that the level of students can go down, as there are more to enter. Many people have come to me and shared this concern. My question is whether the representative shares that concern and whether or not to plan some measures to ensure that the police students coming out have a very high level of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e572	Thank you for a positive question. This is because by building a new police high school, which is helping to create better conditions for education and learning, we can improve quality. The appropriations for the Police College will also increase to next year, so that the possibility of having enough teachers, building skills, etc. would be good. The applicant quantity has also looked like it was supposed to be good quality for those who were admitted. So the commitment to quality at Police College, I share. For the time being, there have been no ominous signals from either those who work in the police, the Police Union or others, so at least it looks promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e579	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e582	Norway is a good country to live in. Unfortunately, it seems to be a too good country to live in and get to for some criminals. Many feel a strong insecurity because of an increasingly organized and even more brutal form of crime, although the few actually experience it, fortunately. Security is just about emotion, and these are not always based on the actual presence or risk of being exposed to crime. The right is concerned that we do not condone either the real crime scene or the subjective sense of security. It determines to what extent many of us feel that we can unfold as we please, without risking violence, threats or abuse. No matter how good an economy you have, or how many welfare arrangements we have to catch those that fall outside, it'll never pay off the feeling of insecurity. At the same time, we all have a responsibility to help ensure that we, as politicians, do not create fear. If I were to have a hope for this budget debate and for the next four years, it's that both we in opposition and those in position in the debates we're in both here and in the media, are able to balance what we're saying, so that we don't paint black or paint our descriptions. Together, we have a common responsibility not to play in fear, but to move in the same direction, as we have often done. In the opinion of the Right, the shortcomings in this budget are fourfold: firstly, there is a lack of a holistic approach to ensuring a balance in the criminal justice chain. Secondly, there is a clear profile to ensure that volunteers have a much greater place in the job that needs to be done to restore the prisoners. Thirdly, it's partly imaginative in terms of ways of solving and preventing more, and fourthly, I would like to say that you might sell the rail and the effect of increased grades at the Police College before the bear is shot and an increased number of criminals have been taken. Many people do not feel safe in their own homes, and we do not have enough control over travelling gangs from former Eastern Europe. We can never assert ourselves against that kind of crime, but we have to do what we can. We're in arrears, but fortunately, some of the grips are done. Getting a proper number of police officers in place in relation to population is an important goal. However, the right is in doubt as to whether the assumptions in the crew report will keep pace. We have to be able to hold people with long experience, we have to do well to hold on to and develop civil competences, and not least it has to pay to cooperate across police districts. I refer here to the Right's proposal to develop a central strategy for seniority measures, to set up a pot to reward cross-border coordination and cooperation, and to develop a central strategy to maximise and optimise the use of civil competences. Police duties shall be police tasks, but there is much to be gained from bringing in external competence. Local solutions are important, but we can ask the question whether we should perhaps have a greater degree of leadership on what civil servants can actually be used for, than it seems to be in some police districts. It took a financial crisis for the government to see that it was a police crisis. The measures that came were right, but they came late. There is still a great need to strengthen the police. The operating budgets do not allow for the investments to be made within, for example: ICT and equipment side. At the same time, we now see that the members of the criminal service feel that they have been forgotten. The balance in the criminal case chain was one of the government's glare numbers when he was in opposition, but the government seems to have forgotten it a little because one wanted to make up for a choice after having made arrears and been in conflict with the police for a long time. It's worrying if you get rid of the paychecks at a price that can turn out to be too high in view of the situation of the people in criminal care. When duplication is already being discussed, and in a short period of time, there is a need to consider whether the ability of the justice sector to plan comprehensively and not just piecefully and splitly needs to be assessed. When one suddenly finds out that a breach of police conflict leads to an increase in the pressure on the number of custody sites, and in reality, one cancels its own return guarantee for a period of time, something tells me that one has not been able to assess the sector as a whole. I then show that the Right has proposals for much better coordination and planning across the justice sector and to see things in a much wider context than today. Also in our field you should use people who know something, for what they can, not just boast of, for example. how good female entrepreneurs are, but at the same time reject the use of the good female founder because she incidentally has private behind her. I'm talking about GENA in Stavanger, of course. It's not okay that more police districts report too late analysis time, and that the quality is certainly not on the level of countries we should compare with. The right is more concerned, for example: the victims of the rape other than to exercise principles in the private/public relationship. Once I'm into the topic of violence in close relationships and abuse, I and Right will again praise the Council of State for a strong commitment. Everyone understands that he means something, and it strongly also, about these themes. Many do not feel safe in their own homes. Women, children – and men – who are exposed to or witness violence and abuse must continue to be a main field of action. I really think the debate about the female skater Haugli says something about what forces you fight against. I make a reservation that it is an ongoing matter, but the reaction of the outside world is something to say about. What many people really said to her was that it was wrong to say from, it was wrong to reveal that someone crossed her integrity limits – and that she was really the problem. Nor was it asked by a lot of people whether it was okay for others – men – who had the same boss, to think that this boss was so important that they wanted to keep him, at least so that you could get medals. I'm thinking, in what other businesses would it be okay for men to say the same thing: I want to keep the boss, because then the bonus gets so high at the end of the year, because then we get a higher profit? It says something about the attitudes that are partly in society, which are a parallel to what we have to fight in terms of violence and abuse elsewhere in society. The reason why I used this example, which is current, is to provide support to the Council of State and the Government 100 p.m., both as a supporter and as someone who will never give so little kick behind if necessary, in order to continue the fight against the attitudes that continue to hamper the fight against violence in close relations and abuse. Many people experience that the outside world turns most of their heads by the fact that the victim becomes the main problem when you break the silence. The right also calls for the unanimous adoption of the provisions of the Criminal Code, on stricter penalties for this type of crime, to be implemented as quickly as possible and refers to proposals for representatives currently being dealt with in the Grand Duchy. The right's goal is to create safe people in safe homes. A wish whether it really has both criminals and non-criminals in common. Stable, safe people with respect for themselves and others are better off, and they tend not to see themselves served by crime. On the right, the Council of State seems to have many good thoughts about the repatriation of prisoners, and that is also why he has broad support in the Stortinge for repatriation. But how do you actually manage to recover? What you would like to say is that it's about seeing people. It's a cliché, but clichés are pretty much because they have a core of truth in them. But the question is, what is it to see a human being, and who is it that does it? For example, the right-hand side of the coin appears to be Elevator and Red Cross network group are good examples. Volunteers have a genuine commitment to what they do. Of course, exposure is not enough, it can be naive. Finding the balance between professionalism, volunteering and commitment. Therefore, the Right proposes, in addition to enhanced criminal care and several places in the KRUS, that we strengthen the framework for volunteers with 50 pst. The right also proposes to strengthen conflict councils in addition to the Government's proposals, and wants to establish several detention units, provided that they are properly evaluated. Not least, we need to get more knowledge about the criminal justice system and the people they're working with in order to get more knowledge into the criminal justice system. I refer in particular to the Right's proposal for more knowledge and research in criminal matters, especially in terms of leadership skills. Finally, we must also have a policy for 'the lure guys', as the former prime minister and Minister of Justice Dørum expressed it. Zero tolerance in drugs must be even more important, if possible, in prisons than outside, so that for example: some gang leaders do not control markets from within the prison if possible even better than they did outside. Betting on Økokrim to prevent illegal file sharing is a new and different example. We've just seen the top of the iceberg in terms of ID thefts. When it comes to an effective policy to prevent reproduction and increasingly organised crime, other speakers from the Right will address this in a later article. I want to end by thanking the almost completely new committee for its cooperation. It ended up. We had long evenings, most of us, but it was a good result. I think there is reason to stress what the representative of Bohemia has done on the occasions he has had, namely to express his wish for cross-party cooperation. I think, as I've said on behalf of the Right, that we have a lot to make of not black-painting or beautifying situations. Both have in common that it harms the fight against crime by creating either contempt or fear outside of the population, and we are not served with that. I'll bring this to the right minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e623	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e628	The representative, Octay Dahl, has on some occasions said that the proportion of relapses is significant among those who are punishing society. What does the representative base this on, when almost all the research says the opposite, namely, that relapses to new crime are less common among those who are penalizing society? The representative Octay Dahl mentioned Dørum. I want so far into Dørum, so do I. I want to go back to time just after Dørum ended up as Minister of Justice. At the end of the term of the Minister of Justice, he described the Right’s contribution to the judicial policy of the day as follows: ‘Right chose creative returns rather than giving fresh money to strengthen law and order.’ [[...]] Will these also be the future priorities of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e640	In the case of former State Council Dørum's description of the Right, I have had the pleasure of having a good cooperation with Dørum both inside and outside the government. He has also given quite clear messages about how that sentence was to be interpreted. It is quite a long way away from the social democrats and the Workers' Party chooses to interpret it as. In terms of social penalties, it is under design. We need to have an evaluation of the content and impact of community sanctions, because there are very many reports, for example. Youth against violence is that it is not filled with the content you assume. It's going to be a lot of randomness. So I hope that together we can look at the effect of social punishment and not just see and believe in its use. That's the most important thing for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e647	A certain representative from the Right has made his mantra ‘too small and too late’. I have now gone through some of the budget items. In 2001, the police budget under the right-hand government was SEK 6.1 billion. When the government left in 2005, the budget was NOK 7.9 billion. The proposal that the Stortinge will adopt today is NOK 11,499 billion. The number of police students when the Right left was 240. We're going to increase it to 720. We now have children's houses in many cities – Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, Trondheim, Tromsø and Oslo, and we're going to move on with it. Nevertheless, the Right says that it is too small and too late. Isn't it this policy you are calling for when you say it's too small and too late – it's the Socialist Left Party's policy you want more of?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e656	I think most of the parties in this room can use 'too little and too late' depending on the position you're in. We are an opposition party that would like to help the government implement what we have as a common goal, as quickly as possible. With regard to the budgets, the Right in Opposition and Position in eight out of ten budgets has proposed more than that. The working party has always done. I think there's a reason to pay attention to that. Both inside and outside government offices had right-wing major police budgets. That's what I think I'm saying about the ability to prioritize. As far as the Police College is concerned, it is a topic of debate that I know the representative Chaudhry has listened to very many times. I don't think it's a very good wish price if we use this budget debate to talk about who said what and did what. The number of students began to increase during the Bondevik II government. Later Minister of Justice Storberget did not propose anything in the opposition, and then the present and the previous government continued to continue the development that Bondevik started. So I think we can all take credit, but everyone can agree that we started too late with the escalation. We all have a common responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e665	On the right, make a large number of their resistance to home soning with electronic control and call it that. class-justice. If this were class justice, one could have said the goal sanctifies the means, all the time electronic control has been part of the grips to get rid of the reconciliation cows. Getting rid of these was important in order to improve the security of society and to show that jurisdictional ownership is actually going to lead to a rapid response. Not least, there is a saving of money for housing, which makes it possible for a better offer, a better content, a different kind of reconciliation, bigger. I mean clearly that this means, reconciliation with electronic control, far from being a bad thing, but rather a good thing for all those who, with the help of this form of reconciliation, avoid getting into a criminal career or getting out of it. It just allows people not to lose houses and homes and jobs. Right doesn't see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e672	Now it's actually been documented that it's the most resource-intensive that's ever been given electronic compensation. That is what we feared when this attempt was started, because one should not believe that electronic compensation is a fixation, and that it does not require a great deal of follow-up. What we have always feared, and we will continue to warn against, is that we use electronic compensation as a savings package and do not see that many criminals need more follow-up. We are open to use electronic compensation for those for whom it is appropriate, namely young offenders. I think that's where the greatest effect will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e679	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e683	Security is a well-being. Security is a prerequisite for a functioning democracy. It is also the basis for personal and human development. It's a priority task for the SV and the Government to make society safe. Security is created with preventive work, strong police force and rehabilitation. Security is about good growth conditions — giving all children and young people the opportunity to participate and develop in society regardless of the economic and social situation of their parents. In order to create security in society, we must start early. Security begins in a man's first year of life. We in SV are proud that we have implemented the preventive reform of the times: full child care coverage. The statutory entitlement to a nursery place at an affordable price is in place. In urban areas with a larger proportion of children with a minority background, provision for four- and five-year-olds has been further strengthened. The price here is a few hundred dollars per. months. Children who master their everyday lives, who master the language and who are safe in their social environment, have better prospects for success in school. These children will be better equipped to complete high school, which, in turn, is a good contribution to making people better in life and in society. Remember, 83.7 pst. by prisoners under 25 years of age have not completed secondary school. Four out of ten prisoners have secondary school as the longest completed education. SV is once again proud that this government has introduced free teaching materials in high school. This is our kind of tax relief. It is important for SV to ensure that all children in Norway have the opportunity to complete secondary education, regardless of their parents’ finances. Again, providing education to people is the best prevention measure. It creates security for individuals and society. In the last four years, the Swedish Government, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, has strengthened the local economy. From 2006 to 2010, there is a real growth in the total income of municipalities of around 41 billion kroner – that is big money. With DKK 41 billion, there is an infinite amount of well-being – and security. To conclude, safe children create a safe society. Then we've really strengthened the police. Police are important both in terms of crime prevention and, of course, in terms of investigation. SV is quite clear that the presence of the police – i.e. visible police – prevents crime. SV is very concerned about the victims. It is of great importance to the victims that the case is investigated quickly and the perpetrator is punished. Therefore, SV is very pleased that the police action has received the largest budgetary increase in the time. Over the last four years, we've trained record police, more than 600 more than under Bondevik II. The 2010 recording will be at 720 students. We increase the police budget by a total of SEK 1.3 billion. The police have received 460 civilian posts this year. This shall be continued. It's a number the opposition couldn't even dream of. On the right, 160 civilian posts were proposed. We have provided the police with the right and necessary tools in the form of the DNA registry. We've done it for free for local politicians to use it. I visited the Stavanger police the other day. They praise the DNA reform. They believe that this is a great tool for taking perpetrators. It makes work easier and faster. This is not least important in rape cases. When we spend a lot of money from the community, we expect the police to deliver. They are expected to be visible, effective and present. Prevention is also about preventing prison inmates in Norwegian prisons from committing new crimes. The government is proposing to increase criminal custody by around 270 million. kr in 2010. In the coming years, we'll be investing even more in the content of the ransom so that the prisoners get an overall follow-up both during and after the settlement. This concerns, among other things: to comply with the return guarantee, which shall ensure treatment for addicts, training, financial advice, debt assistance and residence and post-release work. Over the course of our time, we have put in place a training offer in all prisons, which we are now going to develop further. The library is in place. More than half of the prisoners have a drug problem. For this reason, it is important to provide treatment services. Rusmestring services are available in nine prisons today, and in 2010 two more drug treatment units will be in place. This will continue. We've almost abolished the restitution queues. Now we're working on increasing quality. Let's get to the future. Visions set out in St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 – effective punishment – to be realised. This shows that we have strengthened the whole chain: the prevention, the research and the rehabilitation. A lot of security and prevention costs money. And as I've explained, we've spent a lot of money on it, but not everything depends on money. There's a lot -- a lot -- that depends on attitudes and commitment, and it's completely free of charge. Take the wave of rape in Stavanger: I think it costs nothing that men take responsibility and care. It costs nothing that men talk to other men about violence against women being unacceptable. It costs nothing to set up a friend who is drunk, show care, be careful and make sure you get home safely. It costs nothing – actually less – not to take the last pint, the last to weaken judgment. You become a problem for yourself, and the risk of getting involved in an unwanted violent episode is increasing. Let's go to Christmas now. Holidays and access to drugs will make life more difficult for many, especially children and women. It costs a lot not to drink alcohol — at least more than you can tolerate. It costs nothing to make sure that your friend or neighbor does not get drunk. It costs nothing to report to the auxiliaries that a child or a woman needs help during these days. It costs little to care and show good attitudes. The government has taken action. A proposal has been made to reduce the turnout time by one hour. I expect those who call the police the highest support for this proposal. It'll cost you nothing. In fact, the police will save a lot of resources that they can use to provide security. One of the parties that has cried out most about increased appropriations to the police is the Progress Party. The Progress Party often talks about combating financial crime and wanting more money for the police. It's a cross of thought that the same party that shouts about the manning crisis in the police is running a policy that makes the need for police increase. At the same time, they are proposing strong cuts in the agencies that are working to detect the economic and organised crime and that cooperate closely with the police in these kinds of cases. Finally, I want to bring forward the government's bet on children's houses. The Socialist Left Party is very pleased that we now have six children's houses in the country. It is primarily the organisation Redd Barna that is to be credited for the establishment of children's homes. The organisation has had a long-standing and strong commitment to ensuring legal certainty for children, and they launched children’s homes quite early. The idea was followed up by SV, and today we have children's home in Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, Trondheim, Tromsø and Oslo, and in 2010 it is planned to establish a children's home in Stavanger. Ålesund will be the next city where it is time to establish children's homes. For the last 15 seconds, I'm going to spend on the Minister of Justice. It is right and proper to commend this Minister of Justice, who has really put violence against children and women and violence in close relations on the agenda. As I said – it costs nothing, but it is very important that politicians and others go ahead and put words on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e728	Let me first say that I think it is a little premature – if it can be a parliamentary expression – to stand here and claim things that cannot be documented in the budget of the Progress Party. But that wasn't my question. My question is about the fact that the representative Chaudhry in many contexts – or to say so: in all contexts where I have heard the representative of Chaudhry comment on justice policy – comes with the same message, and that is that full child care coverage is to repair and prevent all possible crime in Norway. Now most of the parties have been united about the kindergarten arrangement and kindergarten policy, so it should not take credit for it. My question is quite simply whether the representative Chaudhry can in any way document or provide some statistics to substantiate his claim that children who have not gone to kindergarten become criminals to a greater extent than children who have gone to kindergarten – for that is what is claimed by the representative Chaudhry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e735	I have never claimed that children who have not had the opportunity to go to kindergarten are more vulnerable to being perpetrators or violent – I have never done that. But I mean, and many agree with me, that safe surroundings – where you learn how to act towards each other, see how conflicts occur and how to solve them safely, in the face of people with educational education – create safe children. Safe children are safe individuals, and safe individuals mean a safe society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e740	We could recently read in the newspapers that the Oslo Police have put the White Snow project on hold. We read that border police controls are being carried out by one person from Swinesund to the national border with Finland, and in my own constituency we can read that unfortunately the police station in Drammen must give priority to crimes other than necessarily drug crime. On the right, police operating budgets increase by 128 million. kr, e.g. to meet these challenges. And then my question is: Where in the SV's draft budget – and therefore also the budgetary position of the government parties – do we find the recognition of the need to increase the police's operating budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e747	It's a strange bookkeeping right-hand drive. I read a number, and I do it again: the time the right-hand side of the coin, the police budget was $7,950 million. kr. The present proposal amounts to 11 499 million. kr. Where's this money going? They're going to the operation of the police. They're going to pay the police. It goes to the investigation of crime. So I'm starting to wonder, what does the Right mean by "the operating budget"? Isn't the police operating budget $11.5 billion? Or think right, we're going to give $11.5 billion to the police, and then we're going to spend $500 million. kr or 1 billion or 2 billion – and that's what we're going to call the operating budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e752	We're a lot of people who care about us for the next week when we get a visit from the U.S. president. I am sure that SV is also happy to receive him. But in that context, one knows – and we have seen around Oslo streets and on television for many days – that there is a lot of fuss and a lot of security measures that need to be taken, and we have already been told that extra means are being released. Can the representative from SV reassure us that there will not be any damage to the work of the Oslo police, that there may be extra costs? If more money has to be allowed, will the SV representative work extra for it not to go down on the Oslo Police?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e757	I think the representative will agree with me that the addressee here is wrong. I am not the Minister of Justice, it is the Minister of Justice who should answer this question. What I promise on behalf of SV is that we are doing everything we can to make Oslo a safe city, and that the Oslo Police Chamber is not charged with this extraordinary cost. I have contacted both the Minister of Justice and the former Minister of Finance and made a clear message and wish that the Oslo Police should not be charged with the extraordinary costs associated with the Obama visit. Moreover, once again, this should be addressed to the Minister of Justice, and I trust that the Minister of Justice will make sure that everything goes right. I have full confidence in him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e764	The relationship between poverty, schooling, socio-economic status and crime has been demonstrated. Every third non-western immigrant child in Norway lives below the poverty line, 60 pst. immigrant boys are at risk of falling out of high school and immigrants are discriminated against on the labour market and have worse socio-economic conditions. SV was going to remove poverty with a pen stroke. Does the representative feel that SV has done enough in the last period to combat poverty? Does the representative take self-criticism in this respect? Does the representative see that in next year's budget too, it is not enough to combat neither child poverty nor to do anything about the drop-out of high school youth? Does the representative see the link between poverty, schooling, socio-economic status and crime control?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e771	Yes, I see the relationship between these things. That's exactly why we have, for which I got criticism from the Progress Party, made sure that it's full babysitting in the country, that's why we've lowered the prices in the kindergartens. The reply to the representative Raja will be that the Left is in government from 2001 to 2005 and was unable to eliminate poverty. In fact, the then Prime Minister had to take self-criticism in 2005 in relation to the election campaign. So I want to say that the important thing is not that we politicians criticize each other for doing too little, but that we join forces to get rid of this thing from Norwegian soil. All people in Norway, especially all children, must be given the opportunity to have a valuable financial framework. There we agree, that's where we have to put the bump, together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e781	As I see it, the field of justice is a kind of force field, where, through both visionary and concrete discussions, well-thought-out legislation and sensible exercise of power will facilitate a secure society. Feeling safe is not a follow-up for everyone, unfortunately. Defenseless kids grow up in homes of violence and power. Both women and men are subjected to offensive assaults, and some experience being robbed of their homes while they are sleeping. We can sometimes feel powerless when we know how difficult it is to overcome this crime of power and gain, which makes people unsafe. Norway is a good country to live in too many, there's reason to underline it. But as long as many people get their lives ruined because of other people's fantasies, we can't sleep. As a representative of the Centre Party and the Red-Greens, I would like to highlight the objective we have set to prevent better, react faster, learn more and rehabilitate better. The arrests we've made to bring us closer to this goal are a massive effort on the police, both at record high admissions at the police high school and by adding significantly more money to the police action. Our courts, which are among the most effective in Europe, have been impressed by the delays in dealing with them. By removing the cows in prison, we have been angry at the reason for adding even better content to the soning, which will prevent new crime. In short, these efforts will make people safer. What one should never forget is that behind the statistics – over both perpetrators and victims – there are individuals, with their problems and their vulnerability. Russ is a major problem both for those who are addicted to drugs and for those who are affected by the crime that comes to the wake of drug abuse. Domestic areas with drug problems are not easy to deal with and follow-up, and therefore there is a great need for organised reconciliation with competent prison staff and in the care of the community. I have expectations that the new drug substitution units will help more people get out of the habit and cope with life, at best for themselves and for others. Fortunately, the victims’ rights and the need for support and follow-up have taken a lot more seriously in recent years. A good policy to protect the victims of their rights must also be accompanied by measures to help the offender break the vicious circle of crime. The less we closed with this last, the more new victims we get, unfortunately. At the same time, we should not forget that people expect Knut Storberget to act like the Phantom. As it is described in the jungle: “The fantasy is hard on the hard ones.” Punishment must, to the extent that it is not home, but serious crime must be followed up by severe punishments. Thus, there is reason to mention the new penal code that was passed earlier this year, where the penal framework for gross violence and moral crimes is being tightened up. I'm not going to draw the comparison between Minister of Justice Storberget and the Phantom so far, but I can't help but quote a young man in this post: 'The Phantom leaves the jungle and walks around the city as a normal man.' In this case, it may be a policy one with a little sloppy glance can call the boy, but we can also take a slightly more serious angle, where the Minister of Justice is no longer part of the use of images. We can imagine the jungle as a variety of criminal environments. We in the Center Party are occupied by the individual's rights and duties. But we also have a fundamental belief that the individual has the ability to change. It is so important for me to clarify that society should facilitate that a sentence that does its best to start a new and better life should be able to move out of this jungle and walk around the city as a normal man. It requires that society provide good follow-up and opportunity for work, but also that each of us meet these individuals with respect and not condemnation. There's something called, "Strength is the one who wins over others, but powerful is the one who overcomes himself." When someone can do this, they get recognition for it. The Justice Committee's work concerns more than police, justice and criminal justice. So, geothermal rights are an example of an important institution, where things that mean a lot to people are handled. Feelings related to ownership limits are not a joke, and unclear ownership relationships tend to create practical problems in which a quick and qualified treatment in the right to land change cleans up. I would like to show that in the government platform for the new red-green government, it is determined that the government will continue to strengthen the right to land change and implement measures to increase recruitment. This year, a large rise was made to raise the salaries of the midwives in order to make the difference between their salaries and those of the judiciary less likely. That's good. In Fränna municipality off the coast of the North West, the national ATK centre is located, automatic traffic control, as per Today, approx. one third of all the photographic boxes in the country. I strongly believe that transferring more such issues to this centre will be able to release resources for more operational police work around in many police districts. And for us in the Center Party, which is occupied with growth and well-being similar to state jobs in the whole country, of course, centralizing the tasks of a district municipality is a constructive idea. But most importantly, making work on civil tasks as rationally as possible, both in this approach and in other measures, is particularly important in order to achieve the objective of a visible and active police force to prevent and detect crime quickly. The fact that this year this government created 460 new civilian positions in the police force means that 280 police officers are released for operational police work. This is a good example of what we do so that the police can be more involved in the field. An ongoing discussion in some police districts is about the structure. How many loner offices should one have in the district, and if one goes in to merge some, who will be left? I want to emphasize that we in the Center Party are open to changes about they contribute to more security for people. However, when it comes to the assessments to be made about the structure in the whole country, it is worth noting that the results of the police's work are not easy to measure, that a decentralised structure in some districts is strongly involved in low crime rates, and that the sense of security is strong among many. In Soria Moria II, it is therefore established that the Government will retain a decentralised police structure. In addition, the Committee notes that it should be stressed that local knowledge, public security and prevention should also be used to assess restructuring. I started this article by talking about us working for a safe society. I would like to end by pointing to the important efforts of the voluntary actors. They have a great commitment and a warm heart that it's worth highlighting. They suggest that many doomsdays get more meaningful lives, e.g. «Music in prison and freedom». Together with good people in the police, the judiciary and criminal services, the various voluntary organizations also contribute to making us all feel safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e822	I am absolutely sure that the representative Klinge speaks with her heart when she shows her focus on care. The Central Party also does that with regard to the municipalities, at least they have tried to express it for many years. However, in the section on page 31, the Progress Party and the Right put forward proposals on and discuss coordinated local action, pointing to the importance of local authorities being involved and given priority, and perhaps finding schemes, solutions, which provide profitability for local authorities involved in this area. So in this field, the Center Party is absent. My question is simply: why is it that the Central Party in this area does not want the municipalities to take the initiative and be given priority and reward when they take such concerted action, to the positive, both to combat crime and to care for crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e829	I didn't fully understand the question, but what I want to say is that the Center Party and the Red-Green Government have done a lot to strengthen the possibilities for cooperation between the municipalities and the police. What I mean is that a good thing can come up with suggestions on how one can be premiered economically and in other ways, but what I know, as a long-standing local politician, is that the interested municipalities themselves have to prevent crime, is often more than enough if one facilitates good channels of action against the police. The Police Council is an example of just how to communicate well between them. I also believe that the Progress Party, which is aware of the major changes and of merging the most possible municipalities, does not necessarily have the greatest trust when it comes to the possibilities for cooperation between the municipalities and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e834	The representative of the Klinge used the Phantom as the name for the Minister of Justice, and action is also needed in relation to the adopted penal code in the areas of violence, rape and assault. Is the representative, Mrs Klinge, open to entering the penal orders that deal with it by the 1902 Act, so that we do not wait until 2012–2013 to increase the level of penalties, as the whole Storting wanted for that type of crime? So the second question: does the representative Klinge feel comfortable with the fact that the sitting government, contrary to the Storting's assumptions, seems to put Norway's record in the number of lay-offs, contrary to what the Central Party has been doing all year long and what the representative Klinge made in his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e841	First to the last. It is quite clear that we are faced with major challenges when it comes to the structure of the Senate, and we in the Central Party are probably not all in agreement with the Labour Party on how far to go with the restructuring. That's exactly why it's important for us in the government to be able to take the good discussions and find the golden middle way. I mentioned in my post that I am far from being against any change, but it is fundamentally important that we take into account local knowledge, preventive work, and that there should be a good police force in the work further. So to this with the criminal law. There is an important question the representative asks here. Of course, they're tightening the penalties, and we want to apply as soon as possible. As I see it, we need to have a discussion about how to achieve it in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e848	We are not sure that I am going to ask a new question about local janitor's offices. That's why I'm going to try another question. During the election campaign, the representative Jan Bøhler was also quite advanced when it came to agreeing with the Progress Party to internalise ID-less asylum seekers. There was also a great deal of similarity between criminals and asylum seekers. I wonder what the Centre Party believes about the detention of asylum seekers – and the mixing of asylum seekers and criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e855	I am absolutely sure that the last far from being meant like this. It is important for us to make it clear that there is far from any sign of similarity between criminals and asylum seekers. At the same time, one must also take on board that a part of those who are asylum seekers who prove not to be entitled to a stay is unfortunately carrying out some unrealities that are particularly problematic for society. Finding good ways to deal with it, we have to do it. The rightmost behavior is that initially, it doesn't look good. Among other things, one case in the Daily newspaper was not so long ago when an Ethiopian picksman was thrown out of prison and was able to perform a new assault because he was not seen in custody, an example is that an actual person is forced to assume that this is a problem that one has to take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e867	Safe growth has been a keynote word and a slogan for the Christian People's Party for a long time and also in the election campaign. ‘Secure growth’ — that is not the least for the children. A society that is good for the children is a society that is good for everyone. In our budget, there's something I want to draw up in particular, and it's the Stine Sofies Foundation. To me, it's a key to an organization – a foundation – that fights to make the children have a better society and make it safer. To prevent violence against children, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has said to be a field of action. It will also be for the Christian People's Party. For us, it is also important to ensure justice for children, to ensure that children can be safe. The work of the Stine Sofie Foundation has helped to improve them. The Foundation is also involved in working for the victims' rights. That is why we want to allow more money. The Christian People's Party is positive in supporting increases in the police budget for next year. It's important to educate more and create security for the population. At the same time, there is a link between the links in the criminal justice chain. More information will necessarily lead to more cases in the courts. This context doesn't seem to work as the Government has taken over, but at least the budget doesn't testify to it. The courts are experiencing a marked increase in the number of cases, both in civil matters and in criminal matters. Oslo District Court reports e.g. in case of an increase of 20 pst. in criminal proceedings and 30 pst. in civil matters. Nevertheless, courts are reduced. On 30 October, the Newspaper on the front page marked the year’s budget as a coup d’état. The director of the Court of Justice, Tor Langbach, fears that this will lead to deboarding, that the trial period will go up, and that people's legal security will be weakened. In particular, the courts are frustrated by this, as over the last few years they have contributed to a good deal and to an efficiency process in order to reduce the length of proceedings. There is now much to suggest that the positive developments we have seen will be broken. At the beginning of the 21st century, we had far too long processing times in this country. Contemporary opposition politician Knut Storberget then wrote an article in the Evening Post. Citation: ‘We need to provide the courts with greater resources to reverse this trend.’ Now, the Court's calculations show that the courts have our losers for all the years since the same Great Mountain became Minister of Justice. The Christian People's Party proposes to strengthen the courts in its alternative budget to prevent redundancies, increase procedural time and compromise legal certainty. We hope the Government will change course at the next crossroads. The Christian People's Party also wants to strengthen Økokrim by 10 million. kr, as part of a package of measures against the black economy. We would like to strengthen voluntary organisations in criminal matters. An important task would be to prevent relapses, and we would like to commend the work of voluntary organisations in that context. Since the Christian People's Party is not represented in the committee – unfortunately – I will refer to proposals that we support. That is the proposal No. 1–6, 9–10 and 12–14, from the Progress Party and the Right, and the proposal No. 19 and 20, from the Right. Then I can't thank for a good cooperation in the committee, but I promise that the Christian People's Party will participate in the debates. I'm happy to be able to do it today as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e889	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e893	One thing the Labour Party can agree to in the case of Christian People's Party 'headlines': safe growth. It fully supports me. When the representative claims that the courts have received a smaller budget next year, that is not entirely correct. It's actually an increase of 77 million. kr. It is also claimed that with the strengthening of the police sector, there will also be several cases that will put pressure on the courts. Does the representative not see that strengthening the police can also mean more preventive work and thus less crime and fewer cases to stick to, so that the courts actually get less to do with the reinforcement we have in the police sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e900	The Christian People's Party strongly supports the efforts of the police, and I share the representative's views that strengthening the police will also result in fewer things in time. But what we've seen is that when you get more arrests or seductions, it also increases the number of trials in the courts. That's why there's been a bottleneck where we want to be able to put in extra measures right now, to deal with more cases, and to ensure that the courts don't become a clot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e907	It is certainly a fact that the Christian People's Party is seeking cooperation with the right side, with the Progress Party – I have understood it this way – and then you have to cooperate with them. I have read the budget of both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. For example, the propulsion party cuts. with 28 million. kr on the Credit Authority, the customs service will be cut by 199 million. kr, and the tax base is cut by 639 million. NOK – a total of 866 million. kr. So plus the advance of 530 million. To the police. Nevertheless, the difference is 336 million. kr. We have to agree that when you cut in these floors, there'll be a lot more crime. Then is my question to the Christian People's Party: How will you manage to rule the country with this party, which cuts so it lasts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e912	We have just been through an election campaign where I also believe the representative from SV was made aware that the Christian People's Party did not want to go to government with just the Progress Party. What has been important to us now, and as we wish, is to be a constructive opposition party that is trying to get through to the most possible things, and we are going to work together on the proposals that are leading and that are good, regardless of which party they are promoting. But I can agree with the SV representative that there are some proposals from the Progress Party that we do not support and that we are concerned about, although I also notice that the Progress Party does not lower taxes on alcohol in this budget, which is a good sign from that party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e917	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e920	The fundamental task of justice policy is to ensure the security of citizens based on the rule of law. Individuals must feel secure that offences will be investigated and charged. The left considers that it is at the heart of a rule of law that, as a general rule, only those who represent the authorities should be able to exercise power over citizens. We are very pleased that the government has increased the bet on the police. The left has given priority to police in several budgets, in particular with a view to strengthening the outreach service. It's important to have visible police in the streets in order to avoid the weighting state. The left is also pleased that the government is increasing the admission to the Police College – we have suggested it earlier, and we believe it is an important and correct measure. The left has cut into two posts in the Ministry of Justice's area, and I would like to take the opportunity to link a few comments to one, which is compensation under electronic control. The left is pleased that the government is trying different measures to reduce the pay queue, but we believe that home sonarism with electronic control violates important principles of the criminal system. First, the possibility of home-sonation can create class justice — it is important not to forget that some individuals in Norway do not even have a home suitable for home-sonation. Secondly, home reconciliation with an electronic link will cause the relatives of convictions to become involved in the punishment in an unfortunate way. Norway is facing new types of crime, such as organised crime-trafficking gangs, trafficking in human beings, serious drug crimes — which are increasingly organised — organised child pornography, ransacks, terror, etc. Although the Left does not sit on the Justice Committee, the Left will do what we can to stand together on the actions and proposals that come along as good proposals, and we will also be active in the debate that will follow. The election campaign was largely influenced by the debate on the asylum flow. The left sees that the high arrival rates for asylum seekers create challenges for Norway, but unlike the other parties, we want to give priority to a bet during the processing period, so that we can get a quick explanation as to whether people can stay in Norway or not. I think this is one of the most important things we can do to prevent Norway from becoming a sort of retreat, where you can wait and wait and eventually stay. Therefore, the left has granted significantly more to the UDI, nearly 100 million. kr more. We believe that we have chosen to prioritise correctly, and we have chosen to give priority to broadcasting. It is a major challenge for asylum seekers who have finally been rejected to remain in Norway. Part of the solution should be to bet on return work. Rapid return is important for individuals who have been rejected and for maintaining the legitimacy of the asylum institution. The Left has therefore proposed to allocate more to this work in addition to what is proposed by the Government. I would also like to stress that, of course, the Left supports the Government's proposal to set up a national identity and documentation unit, as we did in the context of the 2009 revised national budget. I am pleased that the Government has also understood that in many cases the work on determining identity is difficult, and it is appropriate to pool expertise on identifying asylum seekers who arrive without ID papers. As I approach the end, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the Minister of Justice's statements – after the Minister of Justice took over the responsibility for the asylum cases – that there is no way to put similarities between asylum seekers and criminals. It has been an important contribution to clarify that it is important to help the people who come, but that we do not accept people who commit crime under the cover of being asylum seekers. I am also very pleased with the Minister of Justice's commitment and strong intention to combat violence in close relations and violence and abuse of children. However, I do miss the Minister of Justice's follow-up to the debate in 2006 – which was initiated by the head of the National Attorney General, Siri Frigaard, to establish an international prosecutor's office in Norway, which was to take into account the issues where the Nordics were caught in crime abroad, committed crime or were subjected to crime, such as the Martine case, the Congo case and the Bolivia case, and a number of issues in Pakistan, how many are hiding because of crime or committing crime and are Northmen. I hope that the debate can be resumed. I know it's not easy to find an appropriate way to deal with these issues, but it's still going to be important in the future, as we're going to see an increasing degree of that kind of crime in the future, and that the North will end up in that kind of crime abroad. In any case, we must have defined guidelines on how to address such situations. Finally, an explanation of vote on which proposals from the Right and the Advance Party we will support, since we are not sitting in the committee ourselves. We are going to support the proposals No. 1 to 6, 9, 10, 12 to 14, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e943	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e946	I'm not going to go into the asylum debate right now. It shall be fully operational when the Municipal Committee is to examine its budget. I have another question for the representative, Raja. It's the way DNA has become an important tool for the police, and about half of the tracks that are posted are matched by registered people. The DNA reform is therefore important in our opinion. I register that Left wants a much less extensive DNA registry, and reduces the record by 30 million dollars. kr. I'm having trouble understanding the left hand hold here. I therefore ask that the representative, Raja, should be able to elaborate on the Left's view on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e955	I'm very glad that the Presidency is right about my name, but I'm not going to go into it any more. As far as the DNA reform is concerned, the Left has supported the DNA reform. Of course, we agree that DNA is an effective tool for the resolution of crimes. However, we believe that the register has become somewhat more far-reaching than necessary, and we are concerned that citizens are still being registered and monitored. We therefore want a somewhat more limited register than the majority want, and have consequently cut something in the appropriations for DNA analyses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e962	I understand that the representative Raja is an abstinence according to good Muslim principles, as I have got it with me. I was heavily involved in the alcohol policy in my speech, and I believe that a restriction in the time of gift in our country means a relief both for individuals and not least for the police, who need more resources, as the representative Raja was also in. The government and the Swedish Government agree that we need to reduce the turnout time in the country by one hour in order to release resources, not least to the police. My question is: will the Left support this proposal in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e969	The fact that I am abstinence or Muslim has nothing to say for the policy I want to pursue. I don't force my religion on others. I accept that others want to drink, and I also accept that we have local democracy in Norway. I have the sense that local democracy itself will be allowed to decide what the seasons should be. Of course, everyone knows that the use of alcohol is linked to some challenges, and we need to take those challenges seriously. Those challenges need to be reflected in an informed public debate. But the left is of the opinion that this is a matter that needs to be decided locally, and that is in line with these principles the left is also going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e977	I would first like to thank the Left for joining a whole series of sensible proposals from the Progress Party and the Right in the vote. I must also say that I do not share the concern of the representative Uppøen Hansen that Abid Q. Raja is addressing challenges in the field of asylum and what is happening there. When we have the Minister of Justice in place, which is then the Council responsible, it may also be right to raise some problems related to it, even when we know that the Justice Committee is responsible for areas that are also under that heading. My question to the representative Raja is whether he feels comfortable being both an official and a case handler in the UN in a significant and prominent role and standing on the Spokesman of the Stortinge and refer to the proceedings within UNE. Does he feel comfortable with such a double role?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e986	First of all, I would like to say that the Progress Party too can have sensible proposals! To the extent that they have reasonable proposals, the left is of the opinion that the sensible proposals should be supported. The representative, Sandberg, has come to realize that I am quite right the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs, and I decide a number of things in my civil work. I handle the role professionally when I'm at Stortinget as a registered wholesaler, because I'm no longer bound by the constraints I otherwise have in my job as a facilitator. I can assure Per Sandberg that in my job as a tutor, I am following the law that the Stortinget is always adopting, the human rights that apply, and the international obligations that Norway has. When you're no longer a teacher, but on the Stortinget and therefore elected people, you're going to talk about the people you represent and the politics the party wants to conduct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e995	Before I ended up in Stortinget, I was a city government representative in Oslo for three periods, so I know local democracy and local democratic principles well, and I want local democracy to have even more tasks and more responsibilities. So I'm asking a big representative, and I'm asking him the following: Is the representative Raja agreeing that if we reduce the turnout time by one hour, we will be able to free up a huge number of police resources, which we need to defeat, among other things. violence, to prevent and investigate? And does he agree that, as I experience it, he is pushing local democracy in front of him instead of taking a stand in the Great Britain?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1002	I am very pleased that the representative of Chaudhry has gained considerable insight into local democracy by being a long-standing city government representative for his party in Oslo. I want to add, as I said instead, that I am concerned that we are getting a broad, enlightened and informative debate on these difficult things. I agree with Mr Chaudhry that there is a connection between alcohol use, gift periods and crime. I also think that those who vote against the idea that you should have limitations in giving time know that. However, it is a matter of having a free society, where it should be allowed to also enjoy alcohol at times other than that the representative Chaudhry might want it to be used. That's why I'm leaving this question again to local democracy. I believe that if you get a good and informed debate and are able to convince through the open and enlightened debate, local democracy too will take the right decisions that are best suited to the places where local democracy takes the decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1009	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1012	The majority is today invited to decide on a historical commitment to the fight against crime. That's the biggest judicial budget we've ever adopted, and the growth we're facing, especially in the area of the police, we need to go back a long way to find our husband. You could use this opportunity, this debate, to talk a lot about numbers and about growth. I'll try to avoid that. I listened with interest to the introduction to Dahl’s posts – also other good posts at many points – and must say that had what Dahl said, could have been left as a result of this debate, we could also have created a lot of perceived security in the population. When the representative, Mr. Dahl, points to the question of the need to now balance the message that we, as actors in criminal policy, are sending out, the need not to play on fear, the need to move in the same direction, I must, after relatively many years of justice policy, be allowed to express my belief that he is hitting the nail on my head. In the media-driven society we live in, in which events overwhelm us more brutally than ever, it is quite obvious that we, as precursors in the debate, have a significant responsibility to create a safe sense among the population. That is why I believe it is a very important call from the representative Dahl, and I also respond to the effect during the period we are now going into. And it's a responsibility for all of us. It is not just important to create the legitimate security that many people will have in this country. So we're facing a situation this year where we're probably going to have the lowest number of killings in 20-30 years. It is also important to be signaled that a lot is going in the right direction, in order to create security, but also to focus on the crime that we never, or almost never, talk about in public. In one week in Norway, the Ministry of Justice’s violent measurements show that over 1,300 children report to the aid unit – and we talk about one week – that they are either the seas being subjected to violence or assault, or are witnesses to violence or assault. 1 300 children in one week – that’s the top of the iceberg. I am very happy to have been allowed to do both nationally and internationally – the last time in the UN when the UN Secretary-General invited to put together a human panel – just to put the spotlight on that violence and the abuses that affect women and children. I have to say – with respect to reporting – that with the major challenges we face, which shape the agenda, this is the biggest challenge. It is this which is the daily terror that many children and many women are unable to turn away. This is the challenge for us to be able to create stronger pressure from police and judicial authorities, but not least to be able to think differently. These children and these women will probably not be able to achieve by just thinking traditionally, with stricter penalties and more police. Many of them don't ask for more police. Many of them are actually asking for less police. Many of them are asking for conflict resolution, conflict resolution, and many are asking for help and rehabilitation in order to get into another life. This is a big challenge for us, which we are totally dependent on taking seriously. I am convinced that if we go into justice policy for the future with just pointing out that we need to balance, we must do so in relation to that message for children and women. It will also help us to find out that these are the advanced and difficult methods we need to pursue. Restructuring, looking at how we can get the police to work another way, will be the main challenge for us now, because a lot of money – 1.3 billion kroner in growth – will be spent on the police. So we're spending money, so we can have a record recording at the Police College. But it will require us to also demand that we get results from it, and that we use it in the best possible way, in terms of structure, but also methodology, of course. It will also require that we not only be able to think reactively when it's too late. I'm looking forward to Haugesund's Newspaper writing on the first page of today about one place, a new place: "The shanks are slowing the violence" – 38 pst. a reduction in the crime of violence. We see the same thing in Trondheim. We've seen the same thing in many other municipalities. Only in Trondheim in the last year do we talk about 46 saved victims of violence, which the police refused to question, to which we did not grant compensation for victims of violence, and who did not go through the long course of life with a perhaps traumatized injury. That's the challenge. I am therefore pleased with all those who have been up here talking about volunteering, but not least about prevention in its broad context. That is why it is so important, when we now adopt a budget that is so comprehensive, and which is so high on both police, criminal justice and, in my opinion, courts, that we have a search for both what happens before crime occurs, and how we can do the difficult grips in the structures we face in the police, in the criminal justice system and in the courts. It's a pleasure that the DNA reform we've implemented is as good a result as we now see, that we have so much growth in the number of people that are registered and that it also hits. A small group of people commit much of the crime. We'll be able to solve more crime. We're already doing it with the DNA reform we've seen. In addition, it is gratifying that this budget now has the opportunity to strengthen the policy of blackmail, of which I am definitely a member – I understand that the Progress Party now wants to put it down – and that the budget affords the opportunity to strengthen the Ecocrim/Kripos, so that we can put in place the effort force against organised crime that we have been talking about for a long time. And we see it works. There is a decline in the level of profitability in the areas where these measures have been implemented. ‘Unboundary’ in Westfold is a good example of this. The operation on Majorstua is a very good example here in Oslo. It helps when you put pressure on it. This creates great challenges for us. It is quite obvious that the increased maintenance figures are the result of the police having delivered well in the last few months. In this context, it is important that we do not forget the criminal code. There are several people who have said that we must continue to bet on it in the future. I am convinced that we will see better and better results in criminal matters as well. We have to, once all prisons have received training. There was cross-political agreement on that in Stortinget. It has cost money, but the offer is good. There are libraries, agreements with municipalities on housing and not least bets from non-governmental organisations. I fully agree with many that we should increase it in the years to come. Many organisations do a good job – everything from Red Cross to WayBack. We see that these deliver well. Suffering if there's reason to rejoice that we're now in a situation where the police are delivering more and more, we haven't forgotten the criminal code, that we need to build more places. Over the last few years, we've spent $1.4 billion building a new prison in Halden, with 250 seats. It opens for spring. It has been a long time since we opened such a large institution in the criminal justice system in Norway. Over the last few years, the government has been committed to this in order to meet what we have built up over the years — in terms of increased police higher education admissions, not least in terms of operations, in terms of DNA reform, and finally in terms of international efforts, which must only become stronger. That is why I am very pleased to have been given the opportunity to sign the new police cooperation agreement with the EU, where Norway is now allowed to participate in the development of DNA registers and the possibility to search the DNA registers in Europe. The vehicle and fingerprint will be absolutely essential. The next thing we're going to do is Norway sign up for the settlement agreement, so that we can also join the European Community to fight back on mobile crime. The budget that we are inviting the Storting to adopt today gives enhanced power to further reduce crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1045	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1048	First, I would like to say that the Progress Party has not proposed to shut down the UP, but we believe that some of the resources spent on the UP can be redispatched, and that some of the tasks can be carried out by others, for example. by the ordinary police. So to my question. Minister of Justice Storberget does not seem to have enough critical objections to electronic home soning and the developments that we will see in the future in this regard. Electronic compensation could lead to the conviction that the criminal court could resume its criminal career at home, and that electronic compensation would, in practice, be less likely to eliminate crime from the street. I am thinking about being at home and managing this. It is particularly dangerous to use home-sonation at the end of a settlement in connection with a serious judge. Doesn't the Minister of Justice see this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1055	I don't see that point at all. Firstly, as far as the law enforcement is concerned, I am referring to the programme of the Advance Party, where it is clear that we are going to put an end to the policy of blackmail. I understand you're going to use the resources in another way, but the Progress Party has to decide if you're standing at the point where you're going to put down the Printing Police as such. That you're going to use the resources in another way, I have full respect for, but I think it's incredibly unwise. With regard to the issue of home-soning, the risk of further criminal offences is precisely the background to the establishment of home-sonance, which results in less relapses into criminal offences. The Swedish Crime Prevention Council has, among other things, researched on this. The right-wing government in Denmark chooses to expand it. This is also the case in Sweden – a right-wing government – where it is just pointed out that the research behind it shows that the rate of relapse is lower for those who have had electronic home soning at the end. It has a simple explanation. Then you have the opportunity to work, get education or treatment, and that gives you less relapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1064	When I heard the boast of the Right, it was almost so one would think that it was approaching Christmas. In any case, all boasts are received with thanks! It carries the command that the Right may be a little less critical, in an even more constructive way, and that the Council of State in this period may go a little less in conflict than what he has tended to. The Council of State said in the Police Forum after the elections that ICT investment in the police can take place at the earliest on the 2011 budget. We're at an "ICT Stone Age", said the Council of State. In the majority of the comments in the vote, the focus on ICT is very much on the police. Then my question is: what variant of the descriptions will the Council of State say is comprehensive – is it the opinion that came in the Police Forum, or is it the majority's comments in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1071	I will strongly distance myself from the fact that the Council of State is in a state of confusion. I actually don't want to do that. I believe that in this particular field, the whole Stortinget has managed to gather on very important solutions. Most of the innovations in the justice sector have been able to achieve broad cross-political consensus. That's what I think is important, and that's what I want to prioritise in the future. Then I would like to stress that in terms of the ICT situation of the police, it is serious. Much of the material that the police are sitting on there is at the stone age level. That's why we've chosen to start work on renewing this. The representative Dahl is familiar with the fact that there is money set aside for this next year. Money is also spent this year, and it will be set up for 2011. But we have to bet on more than just building up normal operations, and I hope that will come in connection with the implementation of the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1081	Since the Minister of Justice started talking about settlement cows and prison in Halden, I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the prison at Evje. It helps to reduce the pay queue, which I am happy for. I want to focus on what the Minister of Justice spent a lot of his time on, simply elected against women and children – an engagement that the Christian People's Party shares, and which I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has. In that respect, I would like to express my support for the fact that the Minister of Justice also focuses on alcohol — alcohol abuse — as an essential factor in social insecurity. However, the challenge — or question — of the Council of State is on concrete action and on the instrument: whether there are non-governmental organisations or whether there are other measures that he specifically thinks about when it concerns women and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1090	That's a question I'm very happy to get. I believe that this is one of the most important things we can discuss. That is exactly what we presented in New York to the Secretary-General of the United Nations from Norway: what Norway is doing to get this done, to get the number of cases up – now the number of cases is growing in the police. I can briefly mention: building six children's homes, getting an assistant lawyer before the notification is submitted in these cases, financing crisis centres out in the districts, receiving rapes in all the counties, own teams in the police districts, and, not least, helping to get a different, new and better life, i.e. a civil trail, which will be absolutely crucial in order to increase the level of bet in this field, and so – of course – increasing the level of penalties significantly for this type of crime in the new penal code. There's a lot of concrete work done over the last four years in this area, but we're not done at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1097	Martine Vik Magnussen was killed in England last year. The suspect is in Yemen. We have a sentence that is to fall today, in the Congo case, we have people in Norway who commit crime being convicted, but who avoid punishment by running abroad, such as. in the ‘Lille-Røkke’ case of the large taxiwinder in Norway, and we have a number of other cases where the Nordics end up in crime abroad. This is an increasing phenomenon, and it won't disappear by itself. Here you need to do something. In December 2006, the head of the National Attorney General's Office was out with a desire to have a State Attorney's Office on precisely these international issues, and the Minister of Justice said that he shared this view and that it would be desirable to look at this and get the Police Directorate to explore its possibilities. The question is whether the will is still there, whether you see the same challenges, and whether you have any solutions to these challenges that we will face in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1106	I refer to my answer to the question that the representative Raja asked yesterday, which was exactly the same as he now asked. I have not changed my mind on that question during the last day. I want to add that, in particular, in the case of the Nordics who are going out and committing criminal acts abroad – now I am not thinking of those who are being hit by criminal acts, I stress it – there is reason to point out that you cannot count on public Norway standing there standing by in any situation. You have to take responsibility for your own actions when you're abroad. The Norwegian jurisdiction applies primarily in Norway, where we can use our authorities, whether police or prisons. I also think the regular traveler should be very clear that there are limited opportunities to follow-up in criminal matters that the Nordics are rotating abroad. But it is quite obvious that with regard to those affected by crime, we have major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1116	I record that another very competent and up-and-coming Minister of Justice sometimes has to have things in hand with teaspoons, so I'm just going to inform the Minister of Justice that I'm now going to write a letter to him explaining extensively how to reorganize the UP – I understand that you're going to put down today's UP, as the UP stands. The working party shuts down something every year without talking about it, but we've at least mentioned that we're going to restructure. What I want to ask is more about information to flow to the Storting – and my committee. I have now written letters to all the police departments, and I have allowed myself to write letters to some medical officers and police officers around, in order to obtain data to ensure quality, among other things. the claim that reduced turnout time results in less violence. Because it's a little strange that in 100 municipalities where you expand your turnout time, the violence also goes down, and then there are 40 municipalities where you have, among other things, 40 municipalities. has reduced it, and then the violence has fallen. Can the Minister help us get these facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1131	I consider it one of the most important tasks for Stortinget to present the information that Stortinget needs in order to make the right decisions, and the representative Sandberg has the privilege of asking questions both in the Question Time, raising interpellant debates, sending written questions and also asking questions in relation to the budget. I'm going to promise that we'll continue the line we've chosen – be as open as possible to all kinds of situations in the justice sector. It has also contributed to the fact that during my time in the Ministry of Justice we have chosen to inform about the appropriations made, among others. to the PST, the number of posts, etc., so that I can assist with what I can do. I believe that this is a central part of my constitutional responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1138	The Milan Committee was to work on the relationship between the mentally ill per year. definition is not punishable by criminal law and therefore cannot be punished, and criminals who can be punished in the usual way. My question to the Council of State is whether he can be something more specific than what is stated in the proposition, in terms of when this important matter comes to Stortinget, so that we can get it dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1145	As the representative knows, it is now the hearing on this above, and we are working through it. This is a big challenge. It's about the borderline between the health sector and the justice sector, it's about very important data protection aspects, and it's also about human rights issues about what kind of coercive force we can use against people who can't be punished but commit serious criminal acts. I can inform Stortinget today that we are considering sending out a proposal at the hearing in the spring of 2010, but we have not yet taken a decision on whether it is the whole follow-up of the Malta Committee, or whether it is only a part of it – just the part that Right, among other things, has been concerned about: getting the hole that I think obviously has to be sealed, for those particularly annoying who commit many criminal acts. But I hope that is something that we can now complete, possibly a consultation note, in the spring of 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1152	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1155	There is no doubt that the 2010 budget will give the police in Norway a good boost. I have to be allowed to give praise to the Council of States – praise with certain reservations, of course, but even praise, to the Council of State for a budget that provides opportunities. It gives possibilities in a lot of areas. It is clear that an increase of SEK 3.1 billion is, as the Council of State said, historic. Some of the increases included in this budget are continuations of projects launched in 2009. I guess that's 100 million. kr in wage and price increases. The projects started, inter alia: Civil servants and the crisis package around the shortage of police personnel also contribute with their own, but what is positive in any case is that this continues. If these projects had not been continued, there would have been a real cut to the police. I believe that the Council of State was also fully aware and very little interested in going to Stortinget. The working time agreement concluded in 2009 with the Joint Police Association was, as previously, referred to a peace agreement in order to bring about peace, inter alia, in relation to: The police's working time regulations, and to get more hours and more policemen out in the streets. Now it turns out that this peace agreement has tended to be a small declaration of war. There are some policemen who are not allowed to participate in this scheme because they have posts that are not included in it – but they still do the job that is within the scheme. We have to try to clean this up, so that we don't get into the situation that many people feel this injustice, because it creates a bad morale, and bad morale is something we don't need from the police in the position we're in now. The police want to get their work properly valued, and we politicians are going to do that and contribute to it. When the agreement was concluded, a number of police officers were established to have the agreement. There was a roof, by someone, on how many million kroner this agreement would cost. It was not the intention of Storberget when he signed the agreement, nor was it mentioned any exact figures. I hope this can be cleaned up, so that the police and the officials and women who carry out tasks in line with the agreement get the supplement they want. The lack of personnel in the police is actually quite precarious now. It is right, as the representative Akhtar Chaudhry said, that we need a more visible police force. A more visible police force will be involved and prevent crime. When we have a visible police force, it is also important that this police have confidence and respect out there among the population. They're kind of in the process of losing -- I've been in the campaign, and this summer, with some police patrols around and heard about some cases. Earlier, when police patrols traveled around the city on a Saturday night and stood up to monitor situations – at least when I was young, which was not that long ago – it was such that we had respect for the police when the police stood there. Then we took it easy. No one continued to fight or continue to fight with the baskets when the police were standing there. Now we actually experienced on these rounds I was on, on several occasions, that people started arguing, going into a basketball game and fighting next to the police. Then the police haven't the respect they need. But it's clear when there's one to two police officers or women among about one. 100 to 150 party participants, it goes without saying that it might not be easy to have that respect. Because of this, we need to increase the admission to the Police College, which the Council of State has been in for, so that we can get more police officers. But the police don't get into the districts if they don't get money to the police districts so they can hire them. These people don't come out this year or next year, it goes out a few years before they get out. That is why we need to initiate certain measures in the future. We can try to improve the situation today, for example. through some senior measures, through what is already in progress, and by employing several civilians who can take up police duties. It is a fact that one civil servant is not one police officer. There can often be seven-eight civilian employees per year. Police position to make the shifts go up. I think we have great opportunities for savings in recruiting civilians in the police. But we need long-termity, and we need a plan for how to use the appropriations. When police officers and women gradually get into the police, if the Council of State finds it timely to grant money so that they can be hired, they depend on having equipment — good equipment that enables them to carry out the tasks of the police. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal for a separate investment budget for the police so that the police can plan their investments in the future in time and not depend on any investment to go out of business and thereby contribute to cutting down on operations. It is sad to hear that police officers on the patrol are unable to use their equipment because they have not been trained in it. That's very regrettable. The chairperson of the Committee was concerned that he would not take up anything from the media, but this representative wants to do so. It's related to the border surveillance that the police are doing. Money was granted in 2004 and went to the purchase of cars that would provide part of the border monitoring in Hedmark and Østfold counties. So these cars were acquired in 2004, and over the years that have passed, they have gone 20,000 km or so a mile a day. I don't think that was the intention when they were acquired. Another problem is that the cars are not suitable for use. So, the data equipment is useless. It falls out and needs to be restored. They claim that it is faster to call Kripos than to go out with these cars. The cars are registered for two persons, so if the police in these cars are making attacks, they either have the opportunity to cancel one of the police officers or call for help. The police also said that the cars are so rarely used for this reason that when they are first used, you have to have an initial help. It is clear that it is regrettable that the police are coming up in such situations, and that is why we want an investment budget to enable the police to plan ahead. First, they have money to spend, and second, they can make an investment plan, as you do both in companies and, in fact, in municipalities, where you also have to look forward to the future. Finally, I must be allowed to pay some attention to the representative of Chaudhry, who says that children need safety in growth. I fully agree with that. Children need absolute safety in growth. The representative of Chaudhry also says that the best preventative measure available is full childcare coverage – I refer to a debate with the representative of Tønsberg. He moderated a little bit in the answer to Per Sandberg's question, but what he said was that children need a safe environment, and that institutions, i.e. kindergartens and pedagogues, are entitled to provide these safe growing-up conditions. What I'm reading out of it, and what I'm interpreting is that the representative Chaudhry is of the opinion that pedagogues and kindergartens can give young people a safe upbringing, but parents can't give them the safe and good parenting they need. In my opinion, these are reasonable fundamentalist attitudes, and I hope that the representative of Chaudhry can reject the fact that parents are not suitable for child rearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1178	The Ministry of Justice is both the defence line and the administrator of the fundamental values of democracy and the rule of law. The Ministry shall both provide the basic need for security for the inhabitants and ensure that we have a legal system that provides such a difficult concept as ‘justice’ content. That is why this debate on justice is important. Security is a fundamental asset of well-being and is important for the quality of life of individuals. In order to achieve this, we are dependent on the presence and effectiveness of the police, the rapid and secure handling of criminal offences and the provision of clear signals that undesirable behaviour is not tolerated. On the right, there is a judicial policy that ensures people's security in everyday life, and we are pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on many of the main features of the Justice budget, which we are debating today. In itself, it can be characterised as a crime-preventant that an aggregate increase in this way reflects how both security and justice should be understood. At the same time, the debate also shows that there are, of course, political differences and different political priorities. This is part of a well-functioning democracy. In our alternative budget, the Right proposed to set aside $5 million. to stimulate better cooperation between police districts in the fight against organised crime. This strengthening must be seen in conjunction with the Right’s proposal to also allocate funds to senior measures such as: may be used to allow senior senior seniors with acute competence in this type of crime to act as a resource for the country’s police districts. The crime scene is changing. We see that organized crime is increasing. It becomes more advanced and better organized. Increased globalisation has led to the influx of foreign criminal actors and networks, and criminal groups are increasingly involved in organised crime. The crime of these environments and networks is a serious social problem. These organised criminal environments are also increasing in the use of violence, threats, advanced technologies and various forms of pressure against their competitors and opponents. This is a very serious development and in many ways an attack on fundamental social structures, which cannot be accepted within the framework of legal and democratic principles. A trend towards, for example, police investigators, witnesses, journalists and lawyers being pressured or threatened by organised criminal environments is totally unacceptable. Organized crime has to be met at many levels. Firstly, we need to learn from developments in other countries, how organised crime develops and how it can be combated. Furthermore, the various police bodies need resources and competences to meet developments here in Norway and at the borders of the country. And in particular, the police must cooperate with other authorities on the broad fight against criminal networks, for example: customs, tax and tax authorities and municipalities. Combating organised crime and criminal gangs will require long-term action and continuous and coordinated action. The main driving force behind organised crime is economics. Efforts to prevent illegal cash flows are therefore essential. This effort requires an adequate overview of principals and healers by the police. Therefore, intelligence and overall coordination and analysis of information are an important part of the fight against this crime. Prevention is also important in this area. In particular, efforts against vulnerable youth settings and young, criminal repeaters are important. Cooperation with local authorities is essential to prevent developments that lead them into a criminal career or that they are recruited into established gangs. It is on this platform that we in the Right will follow up the challenges of organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1196	Safety and well-being are closely linked. We are not safe, it helps little to get involved in good welfare arrangements – if you don't dare to move out on the streets, in cinemas, in restaurants, at sports events, or the like of fear of being robbed, of fear of blind choice, etc. Such a being can often end up in isolation, desperation and depression. This theme is quite complex. Good public co-ordination in a combination of jobs and fair distribution is crucial and an important contribution to reducing crime, while increasing the security of the population. It brings me to the important prevention work. An active, holistic and knowledge-based justice policy increases the security of society. There is no government in modern times that has invested more in this area than the red-green government. Of course, criminals are to be punished for what they do. As a result, considerable efforts have been made to build up the reconciliation capacity, so that since 2005, the settlement queue has been reduced, from 2 800 to now, almost decommissioned. Police, in cooperation with other public and private actors, are important in preventing crime. Therefore, it must be a goal to get the most police force out of the funds that are being pledged. The police get a significant increase in their budget next year, but money isn't everything. There is little help in granting large funds if the results are not reflected in more visible police, in more prevention, in more security and in less criminality. Here we must all be willing to take important and good structural and organisational debates for the future, i.e. by increasing the police force. A policy of prevention can save many too much pain and loss. We have seen that somewhat simple solutions have produced good results. Crime and violence have gone down. Of course, we should not abandon traditional police methods, but I would also like to mention simple solutions such as: restriction of opening hours for the provision of alcohol. And it's a little strange for me to right the Law and the Order Advance Party, which advocates a liberal alcohol law, where puncture and salsa are to be liberalized to a greater extent, where stronger alcoholic drinks are to be sold in ordinary shops and the give-times are more liberal. If something is well documented, it is the connection between alcohol and alcohol. So the Progress Party, which, as one of its most important taboos, has to fight crime, and which wants to spend more money than any other party in the police and judicial system, stands for a policy that will lead to more crime. We know this. This isn't about living in a liberal society where people are going to have their free choices. This is simply about a society that nobody really wants. It is not possible to combine this, to have a liberal attitude and at the same time to believe that society will be better and safer for everyone. That is why it is so important to draw up important and good frameworks to make society safer and better to grow and live up to. Such measures are what I would call simple action, and they do not cost anything special either. I note that the Progress Party does not propose this time to reduce alcohol taxes. That's interesting, but it's probably only going to last until we're above the worst financial crisis. And so is it that we need to have a manning situation in the police that's defensive. I think that changing governments have a responsibility for the situation that we have, but we all know that the main reason why the police are understaffed is that there was not enough educational capacity at the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1213	It could have been tempting to use this post to respond to the incalculable attacks that the previous speaker brought to the Progress Party, but I'll leave it. We, who now represent the new Judicial Committee – and the Minister of Justice, who continues during this period – have a main task during this four-year period, and it is to ensure that ordinary people have confidence in the rule of law, that ordinary people experience the help of the rule of law when they need it. I have to say that I am now relatively concerned about the common man's trust in this important system. Security of life, health and property is one of the most important principles we have in our society, and which we are going to have in a modern society and in a legal state. It is therefore regrettable that more and more of us experience that these basic principles are not present for individuals. We experience waves of violence – unmotivated ones – and we now see a wave of burglaries in people's homes. One of the most offensive things we can experience is that others have been inside our home and provided with what we have there. The lack of information on profitability contributes to weakening people's confidence in the system. There's someone who can do something about this; it's the Council of State, and it's the Justice Committee of the Biggest. We can't risk people's trust in the justice system being lost, because then we will also risk people's trust in us as politicians and in the political system being lost. That's why it's important to have visible police. I therefore understand the fear that people in Follo now have about the reorganisation of the police in Follo, where we see that the local Länsmann offices are being laid down to get them centralised. Among other things, we see: That Enebakk Municipality, which is a little off the edge of this district, fears what will happen in view of the proximity of the police. This is why the police chief in Follo has a significant role to play in communicating – and now in retrospect ensuring that people experience – that the police offer has not been weakened by this reorganisation, but rather improved. There has also been a considerable debate this autumn on the situation in the courts, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give tribute to the head of the court administration, Tor Langbach, for having dared to start a debate on the resource situation in the courts. It is important that officials dare to go out and criticise the Government, and as this draft budget presented by the Council of State this year. In a hearing in the Judicial Committee, Langbach stated that the courts were about 50 million. kr underfunded to do the job that they have been assigned to do. We have to take this seriously, for 50 million. kr in total is small in relation to the totality we have on the justice budget. Therefore, the Progress Party chooses to grant significantly more to the courts. What this debate has also led to is a more fundamental debate on the position of the courts and the organisation of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and the courts. We ask questions about whether it is right that the courts are subject to the executive power and the ministry, and whether this may be a threat to the long-term distribution of power. We therefore propose that an independent Commission should be set up to review this and make a position on whether the courts should instead be organised during the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1230	We all want to live good and safe lives. Safe communities are something small and large municipalities have on the agenda. There is a lot of good prevention work around the country. Nevertheless, the criminal acts that society has to deal with and react to are being committed. We all react strongly when we hear of cases of gross violence or rape. I know I'm both angry and frustrated when I hear of people as random, and without any warning, being knocked down and knocked in a taxi queue, kids being attacked, or women being beaten unhealthy by their husband or roommates. Such serious criminal acts must, of course, be fought hard against. I sometimes have a strong understanding that victims and relatives feel strongly that the punishment does not outweigh the untruth they are exposed to. Nevertheless, we must guard against punishment being used as, or perceived as, revenge. If society signs similarities between punishment and revenge, our legal community is on the wild roads. Although I am a victim of severe punishments, sometimes I ask myself whether more severe punishments lead to less or more crime. We experience that punishment in the form of detention can lead to problems for the convicted person to function in society after acquittal, because during acquittal, important networks can be lost, problems in family life or in work. For some, therefore, deprivation of liberty can lead to more easily committing new crimes after acquittal, simply because they are outcast by society. Without work, housing and perhaps with a drug problem, the road back to a criminal track is unfortunately short for many. Therefore, prevention is and will be the most important anti-crime action society can take. Fortunately, we have a government that prioritises an active and comprehensive justice policy. On the other hand, the Progress Party does not have the same overall policy. Professionals claim that the policies of the Advance Party will lead to more drug abuse, more violence, more detentions and longer settlement cows. The desire of the Party for higher speed limits, in addition to the impoverishment of the UP, will also result in more road accidents. The justice sector is, as everyone knows, the budget winner of the 2010 government budget. A strengthening of a total of SEK 1.6 billion gives us an additional opportunity to provide security for most people. I am very pleased that the content of the ransom has received more and more attention, so that as much as possible will be able to function in society after an end to it. In my view, there are two particularly demanding challenges in the criminal justice system that I still want to raise. Prisoners have drug problems and/or mental health problems. I'm very pleased with the government's establishment of detention units in several prisons. In 2010, Hustad Prison and Halden Prison are on their way. This is very good and shows that we take the trouble seriously. On the other hand, I see that prisoners with major mental problems experience being thrown away between prisons and health institutions. These people feel too dangerous to be in hospitals and too sick to be in prison. Here we have a major challenge that needs to be taken seriously. In the United States and England, studies show that prisoners have two to four times more severe depressions and psychotic conditions. They also have antisocial personality traits ten times as often as they do. Studies show that prisoners with mental disorders both have more and more serious psychiatric diagnoses than most people, and they commit more crimes that are also of a more violent nature. There is no reason to assume that the status of those in Norwegian prisons is very different, but I am pleased that such monitoring will also be carried out in Norway until next year. For I am very concerned that those convicted of mental illness must receive good treatment for their illness under restitution. It's good both for the convicted and for society. Finally, of course, I am very pleased that the Government's plan to reduce the pay queue works. Here, too, it is appropriate to thank the staff in the criminal service for a phenomenal effort. Following the government’s presentation of the State budget, the need for more places of custody has increased. That is why, in the government fraction of the committee, we have proposed to redispatch in order to avoid the recurrence of accumulating the queue, because the need for guard stations has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1260	There is still a great need for skilled labour in prisons. In a survey in all prisons, Norwegian Prisons and Free Health Associations cartels found that every four of them are out of ethos education and that many guards are kept available to save money. In fact, the situation is serious, and there is a need for more experts in prisons. Why is that? Well, it is to maintain a high level of security in prisons — security for prisoners and employees — and a high level of the quality of compensation plus rehabilitation, which is a very important keyword. It is tempting again to spend a lot of time refuting the myth that the Progress Party is not concerned with rehabilitation. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this right now, but it's a key word for us, too, and we believe that we have much better solutions than what is presented by the government fraction. This is one of the reasons why we in the Progress Party want 10 million. kr. more to the Educational Centre of Criminal Welfare. We're not taking them from anywhere else in criminal custody, but we're adding new, fresh money. This is a bigger bet than other parties have. We are experiencing an increasingly difficult situation for prison officials because of high levels of drug problems, psychiatric problems, a strong increase in the use of care by foreign criminals, which in turn leads to major challenges with language and culture. Then it seems that the justice sector is characterised by something long-term, poor planning, because the need for new prison sites is great, especially in the South and the West, and especially in the area of custody. It is unsustainable for custodians to be released from reporting obligations. Some of the points of custody then disappear, because the police have to investigate a case with a minimum risk of suspects being able to remove evidence in a case, or use their freedom to threaten witnesses to silence, or, for that matter, to commit new crimes. It is unsustainable that custody prisoners are put at hotels because there are not enough vacant cells, as has been proven in a few cases in Kristiansand. The goal of removing the cows is, of course, good. It supports all the parties, and the Minister of Justice must have boasted. However, the removal of queues, at least apparently, must not lead to concrete new prisons and expansions of capacity in existing prisons. We're going to need a plan that's bigger than the one that's going on today. This is a work that needs to be resumed in parallel with the focus on rehabilitation and training of prison staff. If I don't think we get a blow in the back of our head every time crime statistics increase, because we can't handle the problems in a sufficiently good way. The progress party is, at least to some extent, critical of an excessive use of home electronic soning. It appears that the Ministry of Justice is adding electronic home soning as a substitute for prison with rehabilitation measures. Criminal offenders under electronic accomplices will be able to manage their criminal activities with almost the same strength as before the apprehension, and electronic accomplices will, in practice – I will in fact claim – not the criminal activities of the street during the accomplicement period. This is serious, and I say it only to point out that future developments in this respect must be based on the fact that the mildest penalties are still used for electronic home-soneing, and that there is no switch to a practice where convictions by more serious judges receive this offer. That of course there are also positive effects with home-soneing, but that's also true when things are done right. Rehabilitation is another keyword. In particular, I would like to mention the obligation we have to post-protection through organisations such as WayBack, which are responsible for the indictment of justice – that is important – and they provide a good form of rehabilitation. Detoxification, education and other measures need to be added, both during and after settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1277	I want to start by referring to the head of the Police Joint Union, Arne Johannessen, who says that he has never experienced an equivalent rise in any state budget. This was very well said, and of course it's a very correct observation. It is in stark contrast to the black paint that we have heard in part from the Right and the Advance Party. In this budget, there is a lot of fresh money. Last year's bet, especially on more police, continues. The working party and the red-greens are well-satisfied. They are the leaders of justice policy, and they are the leaders of modern justice policy, where education and training under restitution have a significant place, and where the focus is on rehabilitation and return to civil life. I want to give some consideration to people's perception of what is good justice policy. The popular belief is that we must have a good and strong police who capture the robber. We have to have a legal system that judges, and that judges rigorously, but justly. We must have prisons with high walls and strict guarding. It's a popular, but a little bit old-fashioned perception. Modern justice policy is probably also about these elements, but it is much more important than in previous times to prevent crime or to prevent the emergence of new crime. It's about having a competent and materially well-equipped police force capable of meeting people's everyday challenges. In addition, they must have sufficient knowledge and competence to investigate and clarify the heavy and partly new forms of crime. After reconciliation, society has its biggest challenge of accepting and including the finished zone. As I said, this is a major challenge. This is a task where, in cooperation with Norwegian municipalities, criminal services need to find good solutions, and in a modern and offensive justice policy, municipalities become important actors. In recent years, constructive cooperation between the police and the municipality has been developed in many municipalities, where they take joint responsibility. Local labor offices are strongly in people's consciousness, and it's hard to accept that there's going to be suggestions to put them down. But it can also go well. In my time as rapporteur, the citizens experienced the closure of two out of three Länsmannskontoret. It was unusual that we had three offices in one municipality, but that was the way it had always been, and that's how people wanted it. It was close to the police. It created security, and the well-known bilgeman. There was a big raid around this case, and the worst was in Moelv and in Moelv's neighbourhood, where about 10,000 people lost their offices. There were major protests against the closure that resulted from the reform of civil justice on the ground plane. Responsible for that reform was the predecessor of today's Minister of Justice, Odd Einar Dørum. Newly appointed Minister of Justice in the autumn of 2005, Knut Storberget, was a powerful force and promised the people a police post to replace. This was a very successful project, which can safely be recommended to other communities. Visible police are important, and the police station in Moelv was connected to the municipality's service office. The overall police service in the municipality was significantly improved by expanded watch and patrols. I began this article with the popular perception of a good justice policy. In the opinion of people, the idea will also be that the police need to have access to the necessary tools to solve the serious crime and to prevent terrorist acts. In the near future, we will have a debate on such an instrument, namely the Data Storage Directive. There will be a great deal of discussion, where privacy is set up against other aspects of the directive, which will clearly have a significant impact on the police in clarifying criminal activity. This will be an important tool to investigate and prevent heavy crime. The storage of traffic data does not in itself restrict the freedom of individual residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1298	The DNA reform that is now in the process of being implemented has been a flagship for the current Minister of Justice, and it was also heard by the post earlier today. At the time of the adoption of the reform, it was suggested that some 40,000 profiles should be posted annually in this register. The fasite until now in 2009 is 4,500 new profiles. Looking at comparable countries that have implemented similar changes, the criteria for successful implementation of such a reform include: that tenders have been made and several independent laboratories have been used which have contributed to lower costs per year. analysis, shorter processing time and continuous improvement of the analytical method. Modern ICT, automated process for laboratory studies and electronic processing have been used. Quality assurance has been the focus, and monthly reporting has also been carried out at all stages of the process, where it has been possible to quickly correct submitted material, logistics and technology. In other words, a prerequisite for making such a reform optimal and to deliver the best result will be to focus on important criteria such as time, quality and price. In Norway, we experience, among other things, Human beings are being held in custody considerably longer than necessary because evidence is not provided. It is felt that the investigation of, for example, Assault violence takes longer than might have been necessary if one could quickly have received a DNA analysis. In the newspaper on 9 June, they also received information that 70 pst. of the track tests submitted by the police to the Forensic Institute, RMI, did not produce results. In many legal cases, in the judicial system and in police investigations, it is of course important, not only for the investigation, but also for legal certainty, to have different views and assessments of the professional basis of the evidence, i.e. the possibility of having a «second opinion». All this speaks for different environments working on DNA registration or DNA analysis. The Government's response has been to counter all the means available to the alternative environments in this area, rather pointing to the possibility of building an alternative in Tromsø. It's positive, but we also know that it'll take a long time. One already has an alternative environment associated with the University of Stavanger. Gena is initially a privately established environment that meets all the international criteria applicable in this area, which meets the criteria in Norway and which, unlike the RMI, has a safety and quality-related accreditation. Nevertheless, the Government refuses to use this environment. I have trouble understanding what else is behind such resistance, than a fundamental ideological resistance to private environments. The founder of this environment has now gone so far that she has said that if this concerns ideological resistance, she is willing to give up ownership of this enterprise and leave it to the public, for example. through the University of Stavanger. However, a non-positive response from the Government does. There's also another perspective here: when people do something to succeed in this country, do everything that's right, do everything right, but still fail, it sends a signal that will lead to Norway becoming a poorer country than we could have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1315	Security is a fundamental element of a welfare society. I must admit that I am proud of the historic effort that has been made in the justice field with the red-greens of power. The admission to the Police College has gone up, and the settlement queues have gone down. The cows at the prisons are almost decommissioned. Now we have to make sure that the queue back to society goes away. That is why criminal care and the content of the compensation are strengthened. If we are to succeed in the fight against crime, we must take prevention seriously. Good welfare policy is good prevention. When we strengthen our work against high school drop-outs, it is measures that ensure that everyone has a job to go to and an income to live on. It's about giving young people the opportunity to realize their dreams. I think the very few of the young people go around dreaming of being a criminal. When the Government strengthens the municipal economy, it provides locally elected opportunities to prioritise leisure activities for young people. It's in itself crime prevention. With good welfare for all, many of the starting blocks of a criminal runway can be removed. Social democracy has the best policy for more security and less crime, precisely because we are strengthening the community, investing in well-being and having strong social security networks. But when someone first commits criminal acts, we're dependent on a strong police force. The right, together with the Budgetary Comrade Progress Party, must actually take responsibility for the policy they pursued in the Bondevik II Government. They forgot three important s-s in terms of the police. They forgot the students, the civilians and the bet. The only s-the right-hand side remembered was tax relief. That was their priority. They must also take responsibility for that today. It is absolutely essential that we have a legal system that works well. The Norwegian courts are among the most effective in Europe. For most types of cases in the Court of Justice, the average duration of proceedings is reduced. There is every reason to give commendation to those who every day do an important job in the Court of Justice and the various courts. The General Courts will be strengthened by 77 million. kr in the budget. So there's nothing short, as some claim, but there's reason to follow closely the Court's budgetary situation. We also have to have the ability to think completely. There is no point in promoting all cases before the Court, because when we manage to resolve them before they get into court, we save society a lot of resources, and at least as important is that we save the individual for human burden. Therefore, the conflict management system is incredibly important. I'm glad the government proposes to grant $5 million. In addition, in order to ensure better follow-up of young offenders and the testing of high-level youth meetings in cases where young people have committed serious crime. Of course, those young people should also have to make up for themselves. But putting young offenders in prison can make things worse, because in prison you get a network that you may not want for young people to have, and many have great challenges in getting back to life outside. That's why it's important that we use punishment that works. The aim must be to prevent a criminal runway. Social penalties have proved to be effective against the relapse of new crimes, and their use is positive. Politics is not just about heads and ears. Don't misunderstand, I'm delighted that the justice sector will get SEK 1.6 billion more to next year. However, policy is also about creating changes in attitudes and raising awareness of important hidden problems. I want to congratulate the Minister of Justice on an important role in the UN Human Panel against Violence against Women. I want to thank the Council of State for the clear statements that have come, that this is terror in the homes of people. For me, it is also a brutal symptom that equality in Norway has not come far enough when one in four women is subjected to domestic violence. If we are to succeed in the fight against violence against women, we need concrete measures, as the Council of State also pointed out earlier today. We need general changes of attitude, but we also need a comprehensive policy for more equality in this country. Here I am pleased to record that it is the red-greens that go ahead in an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1332	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1335	When the new prison in Halden is nearing completion, the Minister of Justice should take a look at the Oslo Earth – towards Westfold and Buskerud. The custody prisons of Shem and Drammen are old and inappropriate. Both prison management and staff now agree that the two prisons should be replaced by a new and modern prison in Sande in Westfold, with the capacity to meet the needs both in Westfold and Lower Busherud. The municipality makes available empty if the Ministry of Justice gives a clear signal for the co-location plans. It may be unnecessary to point out that the prison capacity in the Southern Prison Region – Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud – is detonated. In particular, this classification applies. Prisons have an average coating of more than 100 percent, and it itself increases the pressure on both employees and prisoners. So, in addition, heavy-duty prisons. I'm glad that the government is now taking important steps to improve the content of the compensation, because we know that very many of the convicted people quickly end up in crime when they release. That's why we have to try to turn the prison into a turning point for the convicted. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons have consistently low education and weak links with the labour market. Many are struggling with poor health, and four out of ten are actually below the poverty line. Six out of ten are drug users, and the third of all prisoners are homeless. Housing, work, education, night work and networks can obviously reduce relapses and recurrent crime. The government is now strengthening criminal custody by 270 million. kr next year, and that's good. Over the period 2006–2009, efforts in criminal care have increased by a total of DKK 1.6 billion. An important area of activity is the guarantee of return, which is not a special right, but means that we should assist prisoners and punish them in relation to housing, training or education, labour and welfare services, health services, social services, financial advice and assistance in the event of debt problems. 25 new posts have been created during the phase-in of the return guarantee. Strengthening drug treatment is equally important. More than half of all prisoners in Norwegian prisons have a drug problem at the time of imprisonment. Winning the fight against drug addiction is imperative. It is also an important part of the government’s fight against poverty in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1348	The importance of prevention in justice policy can hardly be stressed. For the right, it is important that the prevention activities of society start from below, that close collaboration between local authorities and residents be established. There's reason to stress with great pleasure that it per. Today it is approx. 200 municipalities that have established so-called SLT cooperation with local police authorities. I have a great deal of experience in municipal policy. I have been in contact with many of the municipalities that have a SLT project, and also municipalities that have deliberately chosen not to join SLT projects. Those who haven't gone into it signal something that's interesting in this context, namely that the SLT model itself feels like it's too rigid and not too flexible. I think we'll look at how we can solve it, so that more municipalities and county councils can go into it. We are also constantly looking away, and being confirmed, the great and important prevention efforts that the conflict councils are making around the counties. This helps to relieve both prosecution authorities and courts. In its alternative budget, the Right also proposed to strengthen that entry by 5 million. kr in addition to what the Government proposed. We also hear from this pulpit that there's a lot of value happening in the municipalities, and I want to join it. The crime prevention work carried out at grassroots level, many different ways of cooperation between municipalities and county councils, is crucial and important. Over 70 pst. by the municipalities today have police councils, and the work done there to inform each other about the challenges of child protection, housing policy, regulatory plans and the whole range of municipal and local police services is particularly important. At the same time, in the justice debate today, we have heard from this pulpit the emphasis on the strengthened local economy. You should not read many local authorities in these days until you see that the municipalities have not strengthened their finances, but on the contrary you have to cut their municipal budgets. Let's hope that doesn't affect the cooperation between the municipality and the county office. Let's hope that, despite the tight economy, the municipalities maintain the important focus on crime prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1359	Night until 1 March 1976, the "Deep Sea Driller" rig appeared outside Fedje in Hordaland, and six people died. Many call this the forgotten accident, and it has been almost erased from Norwegian oil history. The many questions about what really happened that night, unfortunately, have not yet been answered after so many years. Following various recordings, both from the undersigned and others, the Stortinget decided on 14 December 2004 to ask the Government to review all aspects of the collapse of the Deep Sea Driller rig. The Ministry of Justice decided in March 2007 that the investigation should be carried out as a one-man investigation. The investigation, carried out by a former police officer, was handed over to the Ministry of Justice on 1 November 2007. According to a number of experts in the field, this was very deficient and became, among other things, characterised as light and immature. There were also questions about investigators at all who had knowledge of modern accident investigation principles. Survivors and survivors after the accident were also not satisfied with the so-called investigation, which helped to shed light on the many questions they had. Despite this very poor investigation and despite the fact that there were still a number of unanswered questions about this accident, the Ministry of Justice thought it was over with the examination of all aspects of this tragic accident. In spite of repeated enquiries, the Department had also failed to assess any moral responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and left behind after the loss. Against this background, the Progress Party and the Right today are promoting a proposal asking the Government to review all aspects of the fall of rigging Deep Sea Driller, which highlights both causes and responsibilities, clarifying any responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and survivors. I have reason to believe that the proposal is also supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left. I would now like to appeal to representatives of the government parties to make sense, to show compassion for the survivors and to leave them behind after the accident and to support our proposal. After so many years of waiting these had now so absolutely deserved to be answered all the questions about this tragic accident, and one could finally have set the finish line for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1374	A few-three things: The representative, Werp, argued that the municipal economy has been strengthened in the last four years. He referred to some newspaper headlines. But I believe that from Stortinget's pulpit we should be a little more careful than that. There is evidence that the municipal economy has been strengthened by just over 41 billion kroner over the four years that we have run. So to the representative, I understand that the Progress Party is starting to get a complex in terms of criminal care, or lack of criminal care. It's not a myth, it's a reality that the Progress Party has no criminal record. If the representative Aussogn reads his own post, he will see that he went through the famous old-fashioned proposals: building more prisons and expanding existing capacity. The Progress Party was opposed to the normality principle when we dealt with the Great Britain Communication Penalty that works. Then the representative Ørsal Johansen set an example from a situation with two police officers and 150 party-voting people. There was no police control, and there was violence. Now I hope he agrees with me that we can't have cops on every street corner. God preserves the state that has as many policemen as the representative Ørsal Johansen asked! The most important thing is to have attitudes that ensure that we take care of each other – that we do not abuse alcohol, I did not hear a single word about either Ørsal Johansen's posts or other articles from the Progress Party later. I believe it is important that we also look at our attitudes to each other – not least attitudes to alcohol, which is a documented problem. Then there were several representatives from the Progress Party, including Ørsal Johansen, who thought that the kindergarten bet is not very important in terms of security. I've never said – and I repeat it – that the children who don't go to kindergarten are more potential violent, but I insist that children who go to kindergarten are better placed to master their everyday life in schools. And children who master school life better are better equipped to complete high school — and become better people in society. I want to insist that this is a very important contribution to making our society safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1387	If I had been the representative of Chaudhry, I would have been a little careful to point out that you should act correctly and follow the hour. Because there's something the representative Chaudhry has rarely been, it's being despicable in his attacks on the Progress Party. I have to say that now it has begun to pull itself a little bit, now it has begun to come up with some posts that bear the mark of having sung the International before, to say it carefully. But I realize that the red-green parties need to find a common external enemy after the biodiesel debate. More money than ever – yes, it was just supposed to be missing. Budgets tend to increase each year. Something else would have been pretty eye-catching. But not to be black-painted, but at least to be a little bit grayed out, there's reason to remember that there's been less clarification. The last statistics show it. We've seen a drug flood out of control. Several fall outside, especially young boys with a migrant background. We've had a more serious violent crime. All of this is due not only to the fact that due to the poor handling of a police conflict, one has been in conflict with the police, but in fact a number of other things. Then the representative Torve was concerned with the need for a comprehensive policy. That is quite correct, but the overall policy that has been pursued means that 800,000 people of working age are out of work. It is not the intention to ensure that people who have problems with reading and writing have basic skills in place, namely to be able to read and write properly, not adults either. So I think maybe you should start a little bit with the contents outside the walls before you spend all your energy on what's going to happen inside the walls. In fact, there are some policies that have been pursued in other sectors over the past few years, which are also the reason why very many people work extra when, unfortunately, they end up in prison. Then there was the representative Chaudhry, who in a reply earlier today asked one of his common, critical questions, without reading the proposition first. It was about the relationship with the practice of the social penalty. I recommend the representative of Chaudhry to look up page 70 on his own proposal and look at some of the answers given to the Stortinget from the department. Then he might be able to support proposal No. 7, from the Advancement Party and the Right – when he has read matters in advance. Otherwise, I would like to ask the Council to comment on proposal No. 14, about the tax lists. When the undersigned launched this proposal in the media, the Council of State stated that a review should be carried out in view of the potential for increased crime associated with the publication of tax lists. I ask the Council of State to say something about how far you have come to work, and when you might expect that there will be a matter for Stortingen about it. Otherwise, like the representative Torve, I would like to boast of the members of the criminal service. That's the very good reason. But very many of the employees we're going to listen to now. They feel that they have come with a lot of decoration on the cake, but not with the cake bottom. This is also why the Right has proposed several places in the KRUS, and also to get more professional staff in the criminal justice system. I would then recommend that the Right and the Advance Party submit proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox We have listened to the debate and have taken seriously what the representative of Bohemia said. With regard to the Data Storage Directive, the Right will conclude when we have had a really good process and get a good response from the Government. I hope we can have a debate on this later without vulgar argumentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1406	With regard to the last speech and the question of decorating the cake in criminal custody, the Right, with all due respect to report, has also been involved. I believe that the Right must not be found in being accused of just decorating the cake in terms of criminal custody. We have gathered a broad political majority around the criminal justice system. It's not decorative on the cake that the Right has been wearing. It is building educational facilities in all Norwegian prisons. It's opening up the 11th runaway in prisons. The right has also been involved in supporting it, as far as I recall. Prisons that don't have a library should get a library. Several prisons establish cooperation with municipalities, so that we can settle. And we're pulling Nav into prison. So we have to stick together when the arguments also come against the policy that we've agreed on, because it would be bad now if you perceived it so that the significant bet – that's, of course, billions of dollars for prisons – was described as pie sticks. At least I won't find myself in it. But we're going to go on in that field, because there's more to do again. So I'll say to those who talk about the whole thing, it's very important. That is why it is also very important, as the representative, Octay Dahl, said: we need to look at the other budget chapters in order to think about prevention and thinking about repair in the name of crime control. That is why I very much regret that the Progress Party is now proposing a significant cut in what is our primary defence against economic crime, and what is the lifeblood of organized crime, namely the economy. That from 1 January it is proposed to cut such a significant amount – at a tax rate of 200 million. SEK, on a customs duty of 600 million. kr – will bring us back a long way in reversing organised crime. The courts have also been given attention here. It's deserved. We need a special focus in the future on how it develops in the courts. I'm open to that. But it's like we have the fastest treatment and, to my knowledge, some of the best courts in the world. So I don't want to know that there's any crisis in the courts, but we now need a look at how it goes, especially in relation to the number of cases that come. At my discretion, it is not right, as the representative Kielland Asmyhr said, that the courts are subject to the executive. That's exactly why you've done it in the courthouse, so that we don't have the opportunity to instruct neither court nor administration to the same extent as you know we had before. Then there is an important structural issue such as: Right and left have asked that we present in Stortinget. This is particularly true of the question of Follo. I just want to ask the representative Oktay Dahl, or someone else from the Right, if it is such that you now support the outline of the organization solution in Follo. Since you have asked for it to be presented in Stortinget, I think it is also nice if we could get an answer to that. Now you have an opportunity before the Government takes a decision on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1417	Although we in Norway have highly effective courts and, according to the Council of State, the best courts in the world, that does not mean that our courts cannot get even better. That's what we need to measure. Well, it is so important to get those courts that are not as effective as the very best, closer to the very best in efficiency and procedure. The executive power — that is, the Council of State and the government — has considerable influence on the courts today, even though we have established judicial administration. You appoint judges, and you present a budget to the Stortinget. With the majority we have now had for four years, and will have for the next four years, both the Council of State and the undersigned know that it will not change on as much as a decimal in the government's budget towards the Stortinget. In an earlier article, the Council of State said that it had to be checked whether the police could work in new ways. He showed that we had a record budget, and that there was a lot of demands to be made back to the police regarding how they worked. I agree. But it is now the state council that has to exercise leadership, and it is the state council that has to tell the police how he wants the police organized. I have not heard anything in this debate about what thoughts the Council of State has about it. It might also be interesting to hear whether the Council of State in that debate will listen to good and constructive proposals from the opposition, and perhaps also take part in making proposals that the opposition promotes. People's trust in the police can be weakened – I think it has been significantly weakened today – precisely because people feel that the police are unable to solve the crime they experience in everyday life. We have here a look-up from Romerikes Blade Tuesday November 24, 2009 – the whole first page: ‘Due statistics five months after the resolution of the police conflict. Seven out of ten cases are not resolved. Obviously, if we get too many of that kind of look-up, normal people lose all confidence in the state of law, and that's not what we deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1433	The Progress Party Kielland Asmyhr said that I was inexcusable in my post earlier today. I find that even though the representative has now been given some thought, the Progress Party does not see that there is a connection between power and alcohol. I guess I didn't expect that either. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr also said that when it comes to the state budget, there was not a decimal change there. Yes, the red-greens have actually re-prioritized 20 million. kr in this budget position. During today's debate, Per Sandberg has said that he has written letters to all the country's police officers and some medical officers around because he doesn't trust information from the Justice Department. It's very special, and there are many ways of undermining the system itself on the Storting. It's common practice here in the house that the government councils know only what it's called. It might have been interesting to challenge the representative Sandberg whether this is a form of work that he as committee leader will continue with in the future. It is an area that has been a little advanced in today's debate, and it is the Council of Conflict. In recent years, the Government has provided for more use of conflict resolution councils rather than criminal proceedings. The Council of Conflict will have an increase in its next year of more than five million. kr, in order to facilitate follow-up teams and pilots at the youth summit, so-called ‘restorative justice’. We have faith in this. This is what we want more of, especially for young lawbreakers. During the grand meeting, young people must face the human beings they have suffered from the crime they have committed. In addition, they have to sign a contract with the police and child protection. I am overestimated that this is more effective than prison, which in some cases is the very basic course in crime and a new criminal network for many young offenders. Finally, I would like to stress that we spend a great deal of legal aid over a year. I would like to remind you that the income limit for those who receive free legal aid was increased to NOK 246 000 for individuals and NOK 369 000 for couples in 2009. This means that more people can now include legal aid. Nor should one forget the good work done by the law lawyers and law students in Oslo. They often work against clientele, which rarely consults lawyers, among other things. drug abuse. It creates more security and makes it easier for those who are right to get right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1448	In today’s debate, there has been little focus and attention on one of the other important areas of justice, social security and preparedness. As a result of demonstrable climate change, more and more people in our part of the world are experiencing more and more floods, races, storms, hurricanes and other accidents. This must be taken into account in the municipal emergency plans. The municipal crisis plans must also take account of any terrorist attacks. One should learn to think and prepare for this kind of disaster as well. In a crisis plan context, this is not crucial because these types of events do not differ significantly from other types of adverse events. The municipal emergency plans that include – as I mentioned instead – fires, floods, storms and hurricanes – must similarly address the consequences of all types of serious incidents. On the other hand, it would be more demanding to design appropriate preventive response to terrorist acts. In my first post, I took up the joyful promise that has been made in strengthening the police. In that part of the justice field that we're now inside, we could have wanted more, especially for the Civil Defense. Here we need the renewal of materials, clothes, helmets and shoes. In this year's budget, we are starting this renewal, but I should have liked to see this challenge solved something earlier. However, I find that the first uniforms have been ordered and are expected to be delivered early in the New Year. Here you have to keep the pressure up in the future. Renewal of the country’s rescue helicopters is another challenge. A thorough and tidy process is required here. Providers are many, and the need for rescue helicopters is growing. Some would like to see as many helicopters as possible with the widest possible reach. These are helicopters that are especially needed in large but fortunately rare offshore rescue operations or where there are many fatalities. These helicopters are not optimal for the more everyday tasks. As an example, they'll be too heavy for today's heliports in most of our hospitals. Today’s Sea King helicopters can be maintained in service with good and extensive maintenance until 2020. From the Labour Party we will strive for as rapid progress as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1459	Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1462	The representative, Octay Dahl, claimed that I have not been exasperating about the Progress Party. I record that the representative Oktay Dahl takes the Advance Party in defense and shows care, even though I see that the Progress Party is fully capable of defending itself. But I expect now that when the representative Oktay Dahl is on the pulpit next time, he justifies his claim that I have not been despicable about the Progress Party, otherwise he has to draw these claims. Because it's serious to make these kind of claims from the Storting's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1467	The representative Chaudhry said that the Progress Party and the signatories wanted the police on every street corner, and we couldn't have it that way. Why not? The number of police officers — policemen and women — needs to increase considerably in order to restore the security of cities and to restore the security of the population. If we have a policeman or politician on every corner of the cities on weekends and otherwise, I think of it as very positive and not as a threat to anything. The representative Chaudhry was left with children and kindergartens. He even stated that the undersigned did not look at kindergartens as important. This representative has never said that. Kindergartens are important as part of the rearing of young people. But what worries me more is that the representative Chaudhry says clearly from this pulpit that the children are getting better people from going to kindergarten. So he repeats – more than indirectly – that parents don't make the children good enough people, according to Chaudhry's standard. This is alarming. I think it's amazing that you can stand on Stortinget's pulpit and say that parents are not suitable for child rearing, because that's actually what the representative Chaudhry is doing. He got the opportunity to go up and reject what I suggested in my previous post – he did not, he also clarified what he meant. As I said before, I believe that such fundamentalist attitudes are not served in Norway. So I'm going to say and I'm ready that those who are best suited to raise kids, who are best suited to follow up kids, and who are best suited to give kids the security they need, so that they become good people, are actually the parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1474	I would like to make a comment to Akhtar Chaudhry, who encourages from this pulpit to be careful with what is said from this pulpit. Even he says that the Progress Party does not have criminal care, and that we have complexes for it. It could be tempting to ask Chaudhry to withdraw his claims. Because we have, I mean, the best criminal care, and then it's kind of not our fault that other parties haven't interfered with it. The reason, let me just say, that we have succeeded in removing prison queues – that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice have succeeded in this – is that we have given 600 years of penalty rebates in the last four years. So the curves are going down, but it's not necessarily good rehabilitation policy just to remove restitution cows. Rehabilitation is about a lot. It's about abstinence, sensuality and reconciliation with his family. It's about apologizing to those who are victims, plus a lot, a lot more. But we think rehabilitation should happen under atonement, as you don't send a signal to young people that if you're taken to be a criminal, you may get into prison, but you get out much faster than what you're convicted of. These are dangerous signals, I mean. We believe that there should be a difference between a criminal and a law-abiding person. It is important to maintain people's sense of justice. Doing the opposite is dangerous in the long run, by allowing people to take the law in their own hands in the form of civil protection. And nobody wants that. Above all, we in the Progress Party believe that victims should have sympathy. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have today talked about how important it is to rehabilitate, and we in the Progress Party agree with that, of course. But it gets little credible, and it gets hollow and clichéy, I mean, when the Progress Party is constantly being criticized for implementing the prison sentence in its entirety, and will have rehabilitation during and after the detention. I believe that we in the Progress Party have the most realistic rehabilitation policy. I'm proud of it, and I'm asking other parties to get into it, if it's so timely to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1488	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1491	In this debate a number of unfair and unfair claims have been made about the Progress Party and that the Progress Party does not see the connection between violence and alcohol. Of course, the Progress Party sees it as a challenge with violence and alcohol. But what's becoming unreasonable here is that the alcohol policy is almost all the parties agree on. There are no parties here that propose to ban alcohol, even the Christian People's Party, I will assume. So there's no one in this room who can prove that there's a connection between opening hours and violence. What is quite obvious is that when you push everyone out on the street at the same time, as you do by shutting down e.g. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 01 or 02, it produces guaranteed violence by standing on the street and pushing in taxi cars and so on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1496	It was the first post to my colleague from Ringsack who made me take the floor. I would first like to say to Opbebøen Hansen that I know a little more than just the Minister of Justice in terms of the police, because the police are quite central to each of us and the security each feels, and much of what is now going on within the police, neither I nor many others around me, I believe. But the police post in Moelv has definitely become a symbolic matter, and I think the presentation given by the Parliament's pulpit about it was quite special. If you go in and check what's going on around the police post in Moelv, I think you'll find that there's good leadership at the Ringsaker Lender's office that's made it work at all. Otherwise there would have been two civilian positions there that had no effect in terms of either the visible police or the clearance rate around Moelv. In fact, I believe that the former rapporteur in the Ring case should recognise that it is good leadership that has made it work well. The picture around the rest of Hedmark – if the old rapporteur reads more than Ringsaker Blade – is actually such that there are lay-offs, there are shortages of people and you don't have enough to fill the watch lists, so you can have proper handling of cases. It worries me a lot, because we can't have a police officer who has to sit at seven o'clock in the evening and consider whether you should be able to get out at all if there's a serious crime. I know that's the situation in the police in Hedmark. I took a small phone call, so I have to admit that I have spoken to others in the police department and not just the Minister of Justice. To finish off a little bit in general, I think the police are a very special establishment, and it has a very important social mission. Obviously, the conflicts we've seen in the last few years in the police are dangerous, simply because there may be a danger that we'll create a very rigid set, but that needs flexibility to solve the problems when they show up. I think a lot of people are concerned about that, and at least I don't think you should make a dream of some symbol stuff to try to explain what the situation is actually like. That's why I wanted to take the floor and say a little about the police post in Moelv.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1503	A lot of claims have been made in the debate. I can't go through them all, but someone I have to comment quite briefly. First, when it comes to social democracy as a whole, you boast that you have a well-being society that works. Yes, in the statistics and research tables, we will at least find how things are going around, among other things. mental problems among children and young people. Violence statistics also show how social democracy has gone after 50–60 years. I recommend the representative of Chaudhry to provide documented research that shows that children who have not gone to kindergarten are becoming more violent and more criminal than those who have gone to kindergarten. When you stand on the platform and make such claims, there should be some kind of evidence behind the claims. And the same to the Council of State: although we have cuts in tax rates and customs duties, we have not concluded that the fight against organised crime, serious crime, should be reduced. There are big budgets we're talking about here, so of course there are other things that can be done and made more effective within these bodies. To the representative Oppebøen Hansen, who is calling for my work form: Yes, as long as I can't get information and documentation from the department and the directorate, I go out myself and get the facts. I've done that in this case. During the last period, I asked several times for an overview of the resource situation in the police districts, but did not get it – either by the ministry or by the directorate. I'll do it myself, of course. So to the debate on the tipping policy: Actually, I was just going to take it short and recommend someone to read a reader's letter in a mountain newspaper. It is from Trond Tystad – a working party politician and former kunke bureaurd in Bergen. What does he say about those who want to cut in the seasons: ‘Politics in this area appear to be dominated by lifelong politicians with AFP in mind. When they have finished shutting down cultural scenes and festivals in Norway, they can withdraw to their pension lives in Spain. There they can sit on the outdoor café all night with a glass of chanting Sangria and listen to street musicians playing the grotesque variations of Quanta La Mera until the sun rises again!’ This is a representative of the Workers' Party, formerly a skänkebyrd in Bergen. I think he says it in a very good way, because the results are coming later. Trondheim has been shown as an example, with cuts in give time. It turns out that violence and crime are rising from two o'clock to three o'clock at night, just in the hour they've cut. Looking at the whole day, violence and crime are being reduced, but in the time you've cut it is increasing. You can see the same thing in Telemark, the same thing in Bergen. So there's no evidence of what's being made in this room as statements and evidence that cut time gives less violence. I think you should have a better basis before making such a claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1521	I hope I talk on behalf of everyone when I say that we – everyone who has children or tries to have children – have children for our own part, to satisfy our own needs, because we need it and feel that we need it – and we're going to have fun with our children. Society can never replace citizens' education of their own children, nor should society. Nor can children be put away, so that someone else should behave them for us. Nor should it be a goal for all children in Norway to go to kindergarten – a forced kindergarten. Kindergarten is no guarantee that one falls outside society, and not going into kindergarten does not mean that one cannot live. Of course, you can do as well in society as many others, even if you haven't gone to kindergarten. Crime is prevented by building dense societies – then I think back on the book of Nils Christie, ‘How Close a Society’ – where we can help each other: neighbours, friends and relatives, with conflict councils, social sanctions, etc., and where we show care for each other. Then I'll say a sentence or two about this with alcohol and violence. Even if we want local time to give away, that's not to deny that there's a connection between alcohol use and violence, that's a fact. It's part of the facts, and we have to deal with that, even if you're in favour of local democracy. How this is to be resolved in each case, in each part of the city, in each municipality, it must be based on the public debate, and the public debate must be able to find the best solutions for the municipality in question. I think you should get a little away from the emotions and base this debate on the facts. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice once again for his strong commitment to violence in close relations, and especially in the case of women and honours. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice is concerned about violence to which children are subjected. In Norway, very many children suffer from adult drug abuse. There are also children who experience corporate violence at home. In Norway, we have a large immigrant population growing, which has the tradition of using violence in the mission, which is often classified as client violence. This is a debate that is important to take, and show something more than what has been done so far. As former Minister of Gender Equality, Anniken Huitfeldt often replied when he spoke, among other things. This is the case with mission violence and immigrant families: they must stop beating their children because it is forbidden! Parents know that it is forbidden, but they do it anyway because many immigrant parents think it is best for the child to be beaten, because then it becomes a more obedient and more duty-fulfilling child. The information provided to the Norwegian population over a long period of time also needs to be provided to immigrants, so that a change of attitude can be achieved among them. I look forward to an information campaign led by the Minister of Justice, and I am happy to work with him in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1533	Sigvald Uppøen Hansen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1536	I think we have come a little way when the representative Kielland Asmyhr from the Progress Party now admits that there is a connection between power and alcohol. That's good. I believe the Progress Party is busy fighting crime, and especially financial crime. In the past, the Progress Party has also recognised the importance of its role in this work. But now the Progress Party is cutting – I want to repeat that, as we have said before – 200 million. kr in the customs tariff, over 600 million. kr in the tax base and 30 mill. kr in the credit supervision. It may be a little relevant to ask questions about whether the Progress Party is really so busy fighting economic crime when they propose such a big cut in these budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1543	I was a little uncertain as to whether I should take the floor now in the gift debate that is going on, but after the chairman of the committee, Sandberg, had the floor, I can't help myself. There are very few arguments that now remain for the Progress Party in the fight against reducing, among other things. The giving times. You're left with an hour in between. 02 and 03, and believe that there has been an increase in violence. We see that all reports, research, an overall police Norway and many municipalities now point out clearly – just what Haugesunds Avis writes today on the whole front page – that the trinkets are slowing down violence. And that's not small percentages we're talking about, we're talking about between 30 and 40 pst. I must say that I have great respect for the angle of the representative Abid Raja, who says that there is one thing that will make the decision, but that there is one context there, I think it is important that we now recognise. That's important because it prevents us from getting more victims. We don't want to have the most possible victims who move into the legal system, who are going to have compensation for their victims and who get traumatised their lives. The victims you save just by these little grips, I don't think we should let go of us. So to the representative who says we've reduced the pay queue. Yes, we are happy to take credit for that, but it is not right that the prisoners have been released in the past. The whole recipe for this – and it has been a big deal, including the Progress Party – is that we have built 400 new prison sites in this country. That's what's contributed. With regard to changes in release, the Government has tightened up and phased out release, so that the prisoners are now longer than when the Progress Party and the Right had budgetary responsibilities and right-wing government responsibilities. It's important to keep it with you. We even set up 250 new places next year when we open Halden prison. I just have to say to the representative, Gundersen, who describes the police post in Moelv as a symbol policy. Then you disappoint many in Moelv, then you disappoint many in Hedmark. They've been so excited to get this police post. It's good use of public resources and it's good right-wing policy, because you get more for the heads. But the people of Moelv have said that this was a good solution, which gave security and closeness to the police. If there's symbol politics, I'm afraid we're going to disappoint many of our voters in Hedmark. Finally, the representative of Kielland Asmyhr points out that we need to be open to receive recordings for the organisation of the Norwegian police. That's why we've put solutions on the table for Follo. But we haven't got those recordings from the Progress Party, and I'm also waiting for the Right. What are the recordings, what do you think about the organisational changes in Follo? It is now time to bring it, and I invite you to do so, and I would like to take note of what you think when the government is going to make its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1554	André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1557	That's weird -- we don't say one word, not one pipe, about drugs, we're now using the whole debate on alcohol. I think that's a paradox. With regard to Follo Police District, it's new that the government wants to listen to the Right. We assumed that when we dealt with the police role message, and I had an interview about it in the Stortinget. There's almost nothing in the budget about what you're looking at. But if that's how our connection is crucial to what the government is doing, it's interesting. I'd say it's a good start if the government parties, for example. be able to support proposal No. 11, because then we could believe that the Council of State was serious that he would listen and have dialogue with the opposition in this matter. Finally, to the representative Chaudhry. I did not make a claim on the representative Chaudhry's inadequacy in debates in this Chamber, I made a statement. It was not concrete in relation to the Progress Party, it was a general consideration. You've become a member of Storting's presidency, and it's possible you think you'll get a kind of a power position by virtue of it. But actually that's what you say on the pulpit and the reason for it, which determines whether you get enough respect or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1566	The Council of State said that this debate is about fewer victims, and that is what it is about. I am one of those who are pleased that, for once, a debate on victims and the reduction of violence and crime has been conducted and has been talking about alcohol. Because I think we're way too scared to talk about that question, when we know how much violence and social problems it leads to. There are many municipalities that have reduced the timing with good results. Not only has there become less filling and violence in the streets, but it has perhaps become that some of us also dare to venture out into a world that has gradually become quite tough and hard, and is characterized by very heavy consumption of alcohol. When we talk about it, I want to say that what I'm most concerned about in that area is that we also control those who have puncture sticks, because there's a lot of illegal going on. You don't give gifts to people who aren't sober, or you don't give gifts to minors. This is as important as a discussion of the seasons. Both will be truly effective measures to prevent violence and crime. Then it's the big debate about alcohol. When I hear Per Sandberg talking, I hear that it's kind of tripping in the voice of anger when someone's daring to poke away in the fact that the alcohol consumption in society is actually a big social problem. It's a social problem, it's a violence problem, and it's a big problem in a lot of families. The drug problem is also major, but in volume terms the alcohol problem is much larger. So to kindergartens: kindergartens are important to smooth out social differences and to ensure that kids get a better start and opportunities for knowledge and social mastering. The distribution committee, which gave its position in the spring of this year, shows very clearly that it is a great advantage for children to go to kindergartens. And to be honest, the combination of good parents and good kindergartens is in a way totally unimaginable. But for some of the most vulnerable children, good kindergartens are one of the best things we can do — not least for kids to experience other adults to be trusted. It's one of the most important things with good kindergartens. I think this debate has been interesting to hear. I've been listening to it from my office. But I have to say that I think it has been characterized by some symbol rhetoric and a lack of recognition of the major criminal policy problem associated with increased alcohol use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1583	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1586	You might be sad to be added to arguments, but I'm not going to use resources on it. What's being discussed here is whether or not there's more or less time to give away more or less crime. That violence comes into the wake of the use of alcohol, there is no doubt about it. The question is whether or not there are times of gift that affect it. When the Council of State refers to one notice, I will reply that I have a number of notices that I can refer to. Among other things, Morten Ørn from Bergen says that it has not been used in Bergen, it has actually become worse after cutting in the give-time. Then it's not the one hour in Trondheim I'm talking about. It has become worse not only in the centre of Trondheim, but also outside the centre because of postplay, piracy, etc. In Stavanger, you don't trust it. In Stavanger, December 1st, don't give birth to any minor crime. And to Karin Andersen: Yes, 40 municipalities have reduced the turnout time and reduced crime, 100 municipalities have opened up for longer periods and reduced crime. But now this is at the hearing, so the debate will probably be much stronger at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1595	The size has on several occasions previously had, and will also have many opportunities to address, the debate that went up to the end here. I would like to say that, as a whole, we have had a serious and good budget debate in Stortinget today. One thing I want to clarify and reassure the representative Raja with when he said that I had equated asylum seekers and criminals is that it is far from right. I have tried many times to clarify that what we have been talking about is those with illegal residence and asylum seekers who are repeatedly taken for drug sales and who refuse to cooperate in resolving the identity and subsequent postings, and what we do in relation to them. There I am very pleased with the wording in Soria Moria II, about how we're going to proceed with it. As I was in the past today, I think there is a lot of constructive in the position and in the main points here in the debate, among other things. related to organised crime, international crime cooperation, DNA reform, new measurement criteria for the police, psychiatry and police and balance in the criminal justice chain. I am pleased with the forthcoming cooperation on a big message on organised crime that is coming when the representative, on behalf of the proposers Right and the Progress Party, says that they agree that we can submit the proposal for such a big message, which was previously promoted by the opposition. For what has been mentioned, among others. I think it is very important to stress that the evening post’s presentation of that activity becomes rather overly negative when, for example, there is an increase in the number of drug users in Europe. does not underline the role of the customs office and the cooperation between police and customs offices in relation to the actual control activities. It's very good with the 150-million escalator. kr to border controls and ID registration that is now being added to the budget for next year, but I will also underline the importance of the customs duty rate here. They get a new help home from 1 January, where they are entitled to check ID papers, etc. in the context of the customs office's usual administrative checks and checks on suspicion, which could increase the possibilities of ID control for illegal residence, etc., in a good way. If anyone is concerned about this side of the customs establishment, I would encourage that we have it in mind in the future. I hope the Progress Party will remember this the next time they create a budget for the customs tariff, and take it into account when it comes to proposals that the party will cut by 84 million. kr to the customs office, as proposed in the next year's budget. At all events, it will be important for police results and resource use to develop cooperation with other agencies in the future, for example in: child protection, psychiatry and drug treatment and schools, kindergartens, etc. – in order to have an effect that will be more fundamental to society and to everyone’s safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1606	Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1609	I am pleased that the representative of Bohemia may regret his generalising and stigmatizing statements in the election campaign – the statements on the detention of asylum seekers without ID. So he got in the paper here the other day – as far as I've noted – a pack of the Minister of Justice for having been one of those who might have turned asylum seekers into hardcore with criminals. Once I'm here in the pulpit, I'll also give the Minister of Justice another challenge. Now, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has disappeared a little – let's say – from government policy, but he showed an commitment to doing something for drug addicts. He thought creatively and was willing to think along the path left now long thought and suggested. I would urge the Minister of Justice to take up this glove so that we can do something about the unworthy situation of drug addicts in Norway. I go by Oslo S and Plata every day, and the situation these people are living under, we should not be able to live in peace. I hope you take this debate, and that Storberget can do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1616	Jan Bøhler has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1619	I just want to say to the representative Raja, President, that it is very little worthy that he – if he has good intentions to do a good job of treating asylum seekers in a fair and correct way – cannot go to what is factual, but continues to make generalisations that we have talked about asylum seekers and criminals in general. There is no source for this, and I am absolutely sure the Minister of Justice too understands that. We have the same opinion on what has been said, and what to do, based on the wording of Soria Moria II. So I just want to encourage a more neat approach to what we've said publicly, and what we're saying to each other, so that we can discuss these questions on a proper basis – and let go, for weeks, of trying to clarify something that hasn't been said. I just want to encourage it – and then we're going to get back to this field in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1626	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 4-6. [[Votation, see pages 705 and 712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1643	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1652	This case concerns the protection of privacy in connection with police and criminal law cooperation in the Schengen area. As you can see, this is a further development of the Schengen acquis. The implementation of this Framework Decision requires the Consensus of the Grand Duchy, subject to the second paragraph of the Constitution. If I have to say something in general about this framework decision, it is that it can be used in the case of information exchanged between Member States, or between a Member State and authorities created by acts adopted by the Council, in accordance with Section VI of the EU Treaty, with the aim of preventing, investigating, detecting and pursuing criminal offences. The Framework Decision regulates the collection, use and secondary use of information and includes, inter alia,: rules on the legal status of processing information. I want to show you that the Ministry of Justice has presented Prop. 12 L for 2009–2010, Act on the processing of information by the police and the prosecution authority — the so-called police register law — for the Stortinget, where the relationship to the framework decision, together with the other national and international frameworks for the legislative proposal, is mentioned. Decisions dealing with more detailed rules on the exchange of personal data will be given in the form of a regulation after the Storting has dealt with this matter early in 2010. I would also like to point out that the Schengen Agreements provide for the use of the same acquis by the parties. The Committee believes that Norway should continue to be a full partner in this cooperation, a cooperation based on common rules on privacy. This is also an important area for Norway. It is a consensus committee that recommends that Norway join the proposal to accept Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA. As case spokesman, I would also like to mention that a minority point out that this cooperation will require extensive ICT changes, and that one does not have to take these costs from the operational framework of the department. This is a question that should have been raised during the recent budget debate. I think the minority itself will justify their view here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1671	We live in a world of increasingly globalized crime. Land borders mean less and less, and there are fewer and fewer obstacles to international crime. It can often serve as a protection for criminals on the run and for the execution of new criminal missions. With regard to the exchange, storage and deletion of personal data, this is particularly demanding. Today, the police have an important role to play in this, but the extended Schengen cooperation will provide new tasks and challenges for the police action. It is of utmost importance that personal data not be balanced, abused or stored longer than permitted. There is a need for good training, good practice, a good knowledge of the law and good and secure ICT systems. As a result of Norway’s participation in the extended Schengen cooperation – with which the Progress Party is and supports, like the rest of the Committee – most police computer systems need to be modified. The major ICT change needs consist, inter alia, of: in that most police systems need to be adapted or replaced. It has a price tag of 130 million. kr. Other ICT systems, such as the National Criminal and Police Information Register, also need to be changed, with a price tag of 115 million. kr. This totals 245 million. kr – i.e. 1⁄4 billion kr. Therefore, we fear that this money must be taken in full or in part by the police operating budget. In response from the Ministry of Justice, it says that there is an amount set aside for ICT, but not how much. These amounts, in relation to ICT changes, there is no doubt, as far as I can understand, that they are in the proposition. It is important that the large budgetary increase now being taken into account by the police and the department be used as much as possible for regular operations and planned projects. But it is the Police Directorate who decides how much to spend on ICT, and we in the Advancement Party fear the possibility that ordinary, important tasks of the police will suffer. That is why we, together with the Right, propose what is in the case papers today: ‘The size requests the Government to submit a progress plan for the next 4 years for upgrading the ICT systems of the police, including the necessary changes for the implementation of the extended Schengen cooperation.’; The proposal has been promoted. We all have a common goal here, I understand, but we want a greater predictability for the police in terms of the financial framework they have to deal with in normal operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1689	The representative of Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1692	I support the adoption of this framework decision, but I would like to say that this is one of the important data protection measures that you are doing, and our consequence is the proposal for a police register law, to be dealt with in the Stortinget. We have chosen to place a great deal of emphasis on the law on police records, because of course we want to handle personal data properly and in a good way. It is important in many debates. I must be allowed to pay tribute to my own office, which has managed to do this now. It is a very comprehensive piece of legislation, which Stortinget will come back to and will handle, but the government has, in my opinion, done a very good job – in the name of privacy. If we are to be able to put in place a new penal code, implement it and introduce the Prüm Code – which we have been dealing with earlier today, on the cross-border exchange of DNA, and if we are to be able to cope with the modern Schengen Information System, the new generation that is coming, and, to a large extent, the old one, where information can be exchanged, and also some other mechanisms that we, among other things, have. is involved in international cooperation, and the future debate we will have to debate on the Data Protection Directive – it is important that we get up and running in terms of privacy. Then we are totally dependent on – there I agree with the representative Aussogn – investing quite large amounts in the computer system for the police. It could be bigger than what was previously stated – we're working on it, but it's primarily a budgetary matter. That is why we want to use budgetary procedures to get back to this issue, but I think I should meet the representative so that I say that we will not be able to take this within the current budgetary framework alone. We've always used something, but we're probably dependent on healthy grants so that we don't hit existing businesses. But we will come back to the matter in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1699	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1716	At the request of the Judicial Committee, a free debate has been held.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1719	It's an important law we have on the table to look at some other changes. There are essentially two changes we are going to address for debate and voting. The first is the amendments to the rules on the side-activities of judges and the approval procedures for such judges. Here is a joint committee behind the proposal, and this is a proposal which balances well the concerns of judges and the confidence of the people in the impartiality of judges as the perpetrators of their duties. The second change we have to deal with is the loss of previous law's demands for grades from the university examination to judges. The amendment addresses changes in the education system for, inter alia: judges, where the character requirement lapses. The Committee also unanimously endorses the recommendation and the proposal of the Ministry. The Committee stresses, in the same way as the Ministry, that it is important that the law makes it clear that strict and high professional requirements are imposed on judges and also on the personal characteristics of judges in the performance of their duties. I would also like to point out the minority's comments which encourage the ministry to look at an evaluation of the effects of the loss of character after five years. That request is not accompanied by the Government Parties. A Joint Committee underlines the Department's clarification that a loss of character is of a technical nature and that it should not lead to a change in reality in relation to current law and practice. In addition, some minor technical amendments are proposed in the applicable law. It is an overall judicial committee that supports the Ministry's legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1736	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1753	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1762	The president saw me standing ready here. It is to save the Committee for the time being, because we are to conclude the Committee at noon. 17 today. So here it's about making use of time very effectively, and I'll do that in my post as well. The Committee does not have any comments that can be directly linked to the annual report of the Committee on Credentials and Immunities, nor to the briefing of the work carried out in 2008, the 2008 results or the 2009 developments. We have registered that the Government – I put a little question mark on it – has at least promised that during 2009, a fundamental review of the judicial compensation system will be carried out. I see the council is nodding, so I'm sure it's in place. That's good, and it's necessary. I think it is particularly necessary now, because what has taken up the committee is a letter from Supreme Court Judge Trond Dolva, who on behalf of himself and the other two leaders – there are three selections – has asked the Stortinget – or, above all, the Presidency, but then the Presidency has forwarded it to the Committee – to clarify an interpretation of what the Stortinget has previously unanimously adopted. This concerns the extended, adapted scheme for former orphans and special school students, and also for children who have previously been in specialised orphanage schools. The discussion or assessment that the Committee has had has been a little difficult, because the Stortinget believes – at least the administration – that this remains a regime under the Government. The government thinks, as I understand it, that the scheme belongs to the Storting. So it's good with an evaluation now, so we get to place the whole and full responsibility for who's going to deal with these issues. It is also apparent from the proposals on the table. The Progress Party believes that we do not need to clarify this against the Government, but that we are doing it quite quickly and effectively in the Committee and in the Storting, and clarifying the issues that these samplers want to clarify. At least the Progress Party has interpreted it that way. We have also made two proposals. One explains that although the so-called weakness was not mentioned in previous positions and decisions, it was not intended that they should be excluded from it. We simply believe that there is no problem at all – they should also be included in this scheme. – It’s that simple for the Advance Party. Then we are also quite clear that in the case of children who have been placed in foster homes by the public, a somewhat more stringent burden of proof should be imposed in the case of self-declaration, too, that not only will it decide the case. This is apparent from the second proposal of the Progress Party, and I am promoting both proposals. I might have hoped that the committee had joined these proposals. Those who wait for clarification from the samples, who are waiting – because they have stopped dealing with a number of people here, perhaps some of the weakest we have in society – have to wait a long and nine-time process of evaluating the scheme. I really don't think these people deserve that. One could now have unanimously clarified this by supporting the one proposal of the Progress Party. Then you can evaluate the scheme itself at a later date, as the Government and all the members of the Committee also want.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1779	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1782	I would like to begin by raising the same question as the Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General, whether it is any longer relevant to mention this scheme as the ‘own remuneration scheme’. Then I have to go back a little bit in history. Until 1953, all cases were decided by the Storting itself, but now virtually all applications are finally decided by the selections. The judicial selection, of which there are now three, consists of members of the legislative and judicial state authority. Two out of three members in each selection are proposed by the Stortinget, but all members are appointed by the Ministry of Justice after a delegation from the King of State Council. This issue should soon be clarified, as there may be doubts as to which body will take the initiative to address different issues related to this scheme in the future. I refer to the fact that both the Government of St.prp nr. 12 for 2008-2009, the Presidency and the former Judicial Committee are all in favour of a fundamental review of the judicial remedy system, with the recent expansion and adaptation of new groups. There are also many good reasons why one should take a closer look at the use of government funds through such a system set up against other public welfare schemes. That is why I agree with both the Government, the Presidency and the former Committee on Justice, which has called for a holistic review to take a closer look at the principle of the system itself. In this case, the Government Party will support the view of mandates expressed in the letter from the Trond Dolva selection leader on behalf of the selection leaders. I note that the Progress Party in its comments points out that Trond Dolva has not expressed any vision, but I do not agree with that. It is clear from the letter how the three selection leaders interpret and have practised the legislation. This vision will also be our advice to the selections in the further work, so that one can avoid further delay in the work. If there is to be a different conclusion in the long term, after the ministry has done this work, it must be possible to re-examine the matters that will be interpreted differently from what is used today. We are not in a position to extend the regime to other groups now, until we have had a review of the judicial remedy system, as many have called for, and as the Presidency in its letter of 3 February 2009 has thought should be done by the government. We believe that it is both irresponsible and totally wrong to extend the justice system to new groups now, without knowing what kind of consequences, scope and costs will follow in the wake of this. It is also important to have an assessment of the justice system against other welfare schemes, which we have discussed in the past. These questions are also about non-discrimination, and I know that the department is already well-informed. On this background I would like to suggest the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1797	Most of it has been said, and I shall be brief, not because it is soon the end of the committee, but because the two previous speakers have been brief and pointed out. In the right, it is a coincidence — it seems at least random — that special schools for so-called ‘feasible’ versus ‘special schools’ for pupils with behavioural disorders are treated differently in such a way that it can work in particular. It's also made clear in our comments. It is, as the rapporteur also said, the head of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs who has asked for clarification. The right will not take a final decision on this until we have an assessment in a context. That's the good reason for that. There are a lot of people who have experienced congestion, and we have no problem at all realizing that these people are talking about this, have worn out and experienced some of the worst they can experience. But at the same time, as politicians, we also have to think that each individual ship must also be assessed in relation to the other individual ship, so that we can see what one hand is doing in relation to the other. The right has a minority proposal, which I'm addressing, that would like to call a call to deal with this as quickly as possible. It's both a whip and a carrot, because all of the parts here are worth clarifying this as quickly as possible. I have raised the Right Minority Proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1808	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1811	I want to say a few words, because I'm in the justice committee and I've been doing it for four years. What I experience is that I can sit with two almost identical things that are about two girls raised in each of their special schools. They have both been subjected to forced feeding, containment, care failure, physical punishment and sexual assault. In the proposal for a decision there is for one girl a proposal of NOK 300000 in compensation and for the other a rejection. How is that possible? I as an individual cannot sit and discriminate against people that way. The only difference is that one was in a special school for children with behavioral disabilities, while the other was in a special school for disability. The only reason for this was that the Storing Message was entitled ‘Replacement Schemes for Children in Children’s Homes and Special Schools for Children with Behavioural Disabilities’. But it was built at NOU 2004:23, which was called ‘Children’s Homes and Special Schools under the magnifying glass’, i.e. special schools in general. In a comment in the vote on the Storing Communication, a unanimous committee said: ‘The Committee has noted that the Government does not believe that a national investigation of all institutions should be initiated, on the basis that knowledge of the extent and causes of care failure and abuse of children’s home and special school children is now leading through NOW 2004:23.’ A national review of individual institutions will be comprehensive, time-consuming and an additional impact on the individuals involved. How can the Storting feel that those who were weak should be much more able to document and prove? These were the weakest children. So those who had problems in their everyday lives have to provide documentation and evidence, believe a majority here in Stortinget. And you need to check if that's right. To me, this is completely incomprehensible. When we go to the decision in the vote itself, which is unanimous, it says: ‘The amount of compensation shall be awarded in accordance with an extended and adapted legal compensation scheme for the former orphanages and special schools...’ There is nothing to say that there should be a difference between those who were weak and those who had ‘defect behaviour’. I think this is awfully sad. There are a lot of people today who are upset, tired and despaired – and so am I.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1834	This is a very important matter for very many people. Among other things, SV’s representative May Hansen worked on this in the previous period, and she is very concerned about it. She sits for the rest of her life in one of the selections, and has an interest and commitment to the matter. It has also been noted in the past – and in the submissions that have now been here – that there has been an interpretation of who is the subject of this compensation and who is excluded. The doubt has emerged so strongly that even the President in the last period asked the Department to make an investigation. We in SV believe that it is then right that we get a review of the whole system, of the mandate, and that we get a decision on a basis that is solid and properly investigated. We don't reject either one or the other, but we're waiting for an investigation from the department, and we're going to conclude from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1841	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 716]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1858	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1867	A unanimous committee endorses the Government’s proposal for additional appropriations totalling 67.9 million. kr for various operating expenditure broken down into the budget chapters of the Directorate of Police, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs. The need for additional appropriations has arisen as a result of an increase in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. The forecasts underlying the budget and revised budget for 2009 estimated the number of asylum seekers to be 15 000 this year, while recent forecasts increased the estimate to 18 500, including 2 800 single minors. This is the forecast on which the additional appropriations are based, although a lot can now indicate that the forecasts can be adjusted somewhat. It also shows how these figures can fluctuate. The last revisions of the forecasts have to be seen in the context of an increase in the level of conflict in many countries and a general increase in asylum seekers to Europe. At the same time, when Norway is one of the countries with the highest growth in the number of asylum seekers, and among those with the highest proportion of applicants in relation to population, there is a strong demand for the apparatus we have put in place to handle applications and complaints. The result will be increased balances. In the short term, it must be compensated for by money. But more importantly, in a slightly longer-term perspective, we need to see how we can streamline the procedure in and between departments and how we can reduce the number of asylum seekers. This job is already in progress, and the Stortinget will have plenty of opportunities to discuss different actions, both those in progress and those in preparation. As the majority have clarified in the vote, the aim is for Norway to pursue a consistent, fair and legally secure refugee and asylum policy, based on international conventions. The minority indicates that it is necessary to tighten up asylum policy. To that it is worth noting that the work has already been started. In the autumn of 2008, the Government launched 13 different measures. Most of them are now in operation. In fact, the number of asylum seekers stabilised for a period after the new measures were notified, and for some applicant groups the decrease was significant. Nevertheless, in 2009 we have had an increase, compared with 2008. As a result, eight new measures were announced in the summer of this year specifically aimed at limiting the access of lone minor asylum seekers. The government is closely monitoring developments and is prepared to put in place several measures, such as: notified in the Soria Moria II Declaration. Adaptation to practices in comparable countries, increased efforts to clarify identity, assessment of the humanitarian stay threshold, establishment of care centres for lone minors in the countries of origin, increased use of detention in crime, attempts to hide identity, avoidance of return, to mention some of the things it is now working on. However, the majority would stress that the purpose of these measures and others that may come is not to limit the number of asylum seekers by themselves. It is legitimate to seek asylum in another country. However, the aim is to limit access by applicants who do not have a need for protection. Then we relieve the device and we can do a better job for those who need to stay here. When we unload the device and reduce the use of money, we will also be able to increase the number of quota refugees, people living in the United Nations flight camps and staying there because no one has room for them. A high number of groundless applications may also help to weaken the confidence of the asylum institution. If that happens, we have a problem. But the matter today therefore applies to the necessary additional appropriations for this year, and the setting is, as I said, unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1880	Today, exactly 15 months have passed since the government first launched restrictions on asylum policy. On 3 September 2008, Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister for Labour and Inclusion Dag Terje Andersen held a large press conference in which Norwegian asylum policy was tightened. The government has also done that on a number of occasions in the past. Not surprisingly, it was also done during the election campaign. I think we can be reasonably clear that the so-called measures, the 13 points that were launched 15 months ago, and what has come after, have had very little impact on the asylum influx to Norway. Then it's really just to refer to a new research report that was presented today. NTB had a message today at 0 p.m. 14.36 on the fact that the researchers Jan-Paul Breek and Monica Five Aarset have presented a report entitled ‘Actions against asylum flow have worked poorly’. The NTB message says: ‘The government’s attempt to slow down the asylum flow to Norway did not have the expected effect. The measures were completely lacking, concluding a new report.’ Thus, it has been read out and decided that the government's so-called reduction of asylum has had very little effect. You don't have to do a lot of research on it. It's really just looking at the arrival numbers that are updated monthly on UDI's websites, you'll see that the tightening measures have been a game for the gallery. But you keep going with this game. In Soria Moria II, too, there are signs of tightening, but after 15 months – and in fact no special effect can be seen, on the contrary, the number of asylum seekers has increased – it can be established once and for all that the Government does not follow up with policies they express in rhetoric. The selectors have been led behind the light. It is not really the case that the government believes in this so-called asylum restriction itself. It's just reading the state budget. The 2010 estimates are still 18 500 asylum seekers. So the government itself does not believe that the influx of asylum will go down. This has considerable budgetary implications. Today the Stortinget is invited to adopt additions to the current year's budget, but gradually this starts to cost a lot of money. The foreign field, the immigration and integration field, currently has a price tag that goes beyond the total expenditure spent by the State to the police. It must be a little special for a Minister of Justice to record that we spend more money in the foreign field, and above all in the field of asylum, than we spend on the police in this country. The foreign field also costs more than the agricultural agreement. In the years that come, with the evolution we have seen, the costs will continue to increase very dramatically. One thing is that people arrive and are placed in receptions, but it is when they are to be integrated into the other end, very many of these outside the municipalities, that costs really start running. Today, we have direct budget-related annual expenditure of nearly 13 billion kroner. This is a development that cannot continue. Soon the majority here in Stortinget must intervene and tighten up so that we can regain control of the situation. At least I have no confidence that the government is able to do so, all the time it has been 15 months since you first announced the intrusions, without seeing any effect at all. The progress party is forced to support the additions, because this is money that has already been used up. But we say clearly that with our policies, expenditure in this area would be significantly less, and we would have control over the influx of asylum. Unfortunately, we do not have it with the policies of the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1896	This will be an article with a slightly different sign than from the previous one. The updated forecasts for asylum arrivals to Norway in 2009 are about 18,500, of which 2,800 are single minors. Norway is actually geographically located so inaccessible that we don't get so many refugees on the door, well notice if you choose to raise your eyes and see the world's refugee situation in a larger perspective. Of course, you can also choose the pig health perspective and stand at the Norwegian border and try to close the door. But there is very little solidarity toward the poor and persecuted world. In addition, there will be rapid poor air in a enclosed space. It is not just Norway that is experiencing more people seeking protection. The trend is moving in the same direction across Europe, although there are a few exceptions. And there are countries that take enormous burdens on Europe. Jordan is a country with a population of barely 6 million. In 2007, there were 2.4 million refugees there, and Jordan is the host country for more refugees compared to the population than any other country in the world. Questions can be asked about the consequences of this, for example: Jordan's politicians in charge of the refugee field had done what some Norwegian politicians often do, namely to raise the issue of making the door more intrusive. At a time when the debate on asylum and immigration is largely just about how to reduce the number of people seeking protection in Norway, the integration and inclusion perspective often comes to the fore. We need to tighten up asylum policy in order to send out signals in the world that it is not useful to come to Norway and ask for help. We are at a time when European countries are competing to have the most restrictive policy. It creates the impression that the rich countries are in crisis, the rich countries that are being exploited by the lucky ones. But, above all, it is humans who are in crisis – not us. The rhetoric used when discussing the need for tightening up is that we need to reduce the number of unjustified asylum seekers. It is then important that the measures are accurate and provide exactly that. But I have e.g. it is difficult to see how the four-year work or family reunification training measure should not affect those who have actually been resident and who need protection. I will quote Arild Humlen, head of the Association's Action and Procedure Group in Foreign Law, from a chronicle in the Newspaper: ‘If there is a real need to address the number of asylum seekers, the investment must take the form of rapid case management and effective means of return. Short case management will concentrate treatment on the core theme; need for protection. When proceedings take half to two years or more, cases such as asylum and end up as family and child Convention cases often begin.» I agree with this assessment. Asylum and immigration policies and integration policies are now separated. The Minister of Justice shall be responsible for the former. SVs Lysbakken, as Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has been given responsibility for the latter. I believe this is negative if it leads to the SV in government consistently turning away from answering questions about asylum policy. But of course it can also be positive if this division will lead to a healthier and more constructive debate on integration. Of course, the case of the necessary additional appropriations is supported. We don't have a sense that we're being forced into it. Of course, we share this entirely from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1923	Every time we go into an asylum debate where the Progress Party speaks, it's an essential element that just disappears out of the matter right away, and that's the following: People have the right to seek asylum. So it's a right that we've given people by signing up to the Refugee Convention. People have the right to apply for protection elsewhere. We often forget that. We often forget the reason people are on the run. The world has about 40 million refugees. 280 000 of them come to Europe and about 18 000 come to Norway. So it's a disappearing small proportion of the people that the United Nations, the Refugee Aid and others recognize are fleeing. Most of them are handled, received and taken care of by their neighbouring countries, which are severally poorer than what we are. But we want to take part in the responsibility for the world's refugees, both by supporting the expansion and construction of refugees in the neighbourhoods to the conflicts that people flee from, and also to take care of some of the people who come to Norway. When the Progress Party speaks, the people behind these fates, people who have fled from war and who have fled from persecution, are reduced to a number of statistics. I think that is a very negative aspect of the refugee debate in Norway. The Progress Party may rise above the Mulla in Iran. But do we hear them stand up for the refugees who run away from those mules? So they're willing to go on a campaign to Iraq with George Bush. They wanted that before the Iraq war. But are they willing to accept the refugees fleeing the same war? They rise above pirates in Somalia. But are they willing to take care of those who actually flee from the destructions and the same pirates from Somalia? They are raging against the Taliban – and they are right to. But are they willing to accept the refugees coming into the firing line between the international forces and the Taliban? The point is that in the statistics of the Progress Party, these people are primarily numbers. For us who sit in the Government, they are primarily people, people who are on the run. What has been negative in Europe, and perhaps manifesting itself with the decision against minarets made in Switzerland just days ago, is that one has a downward spiral in Europe's willingness to accept refugees. When we are part of the European Community, this also affects us. For this reason, the work done by the Government, which is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration, is to ensure that we have a common European minimum standard in order to ensure the proper treatment of asylum seekers, both when they arrive at reception, when they are taken care of, and that they are given a legal asylum process – which the Government is committed to – some of the most important work we can do to ensure that refugees and asylum seekers are properly preserved. But we also see that we have to do a job in Norway in the time to come. I believe that the most important job we can do to ensure that the number of people who are likely to get rejected is to get a faster procedure. I am very pleased that we have a responsible minister, Knut Storberget, who has experience of this from the job he has done before. We don't raise the punishment. It's not lifting the penalties that are the solution to crime. There is rapid treatment, sentence and imprisonment for those who have committed criminal acts, with rehabilitation arrangements to get them to the other end as people who can contribute to the community without committing new criminal acts. The working agent that would work best would be a quick procedure. Rapid procedure, which we are now putting up in the budget we have set up for next year – with several case handlers who can provide rapid, fair and secure treatment for asylum seekers – is something that, in our view, will help to ensure that those people who do not have protection requirements in Norway, perhaps to a lesser extent, will arrive. When Erna Solberg was a minister, it came, for example. first a small group of Mongolian asylum seekers. They stayed for a long time. And then it's about 900 more. They came because the first ones had not been treated. But none of them were allowed to stay, and all traveled home. And I think that's how we have to deal with this question even in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1942	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen should be very happy to have drawn the winning weight, as most of us have drawn when we were born in Norway – born in the best, richest and safest country in the world. If we're better at something, we're going to thank nature for that. We're not better just because we're so good, but we've also been very lucky. Of those that I often call Northmen – I am so-called Norwegian Pakistani – I have learned to show humanity to other people. From my Christian friends, I have learned that this is at the heart of love and humanity. It seems that Per-Willy Amundsen has a big task in life here on the Stortinget, and it's to rake down on those who come here to the country, and who need help. They may be persecuted, they may be executed — perhaps because they have converted to another religion — or they may have a different sexual orientation, and there may be women who may be at risk of being raped, venerated, or sexually mutilated. These people who come to Norway, the Per-Willy Amundsen representative, has made it a great task to rake down on and use as an enemy image. The paradox is that it is precisely the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen that allows more asylum seekers to think of coming to Norway. The signal from the Progress Party is that Norway is a sanctuary. The government's doing nothing. Everyone is allowed to stay, no one is punished – here it is free. These are signals that the Advance Party is involved in sending out, and that is perhaps what draws further asylum seekers to Norway. As I see it, there are in particular three challenges Norway is facing now. The first concerns the 11 000 asylum seekers who are in reception. They have their affairs lying down, and you haven't started dealing with them. The left has proposed 100 million. kr more to the UDI to get rid of this remainder. It's some of the things that are needed after the Ministry of Finance's calculations. It's at the bottom of what's going to happen, but it's at least far more than what the government's proposing to do with these remains. The second challenge we face is the 3,500 who have been finally rejected and who do not return – who choose not to return or who Norway is unable to return. Here it is important that we manage to establish return agreements with the respective countries. Some other countries — e.g. Sweden – has succeeded in reaching a return agreement with Iraq. Norway must also be able to do so through its diplomatic relations, so that we can succeed in getting more people back to the countries from which they come. More have to be motivated by other means to return voluntarily. The third challenge we face is new citizens who come and who get clientisation in everyday life – that is, we clientise new citizens. They must sit and wait for asylum recipients year after year, while it is the state that pays for their stay. It was just to be lacking that we would not provide them with a safe environment, but we would organise the entire day-to-day without giving them the right and duty to work for the stay. We in the Left have arranged for them to have the right and duty to work. It will also help the few who stay in Norway, through the period they have been here, learn to work to manage themselves in Norway. It's not like the state's going to take care of them. Today, when they've been passive for two to three years, sitting and looking in the wall, it takes a lot more to start taking responsibility for their own lives. I am pleased that the government has reduced a sample, led by Gunnar Berge, who is going to look at the offer in the receptions. People within the country must be treated with respect and given a worthy offer. I agree with the Minister of Justice, and I am pleased that we agree that everyone should receive individual treatment, not group treatment, which you can easily get the impression of when the representative Per-Willy Amundsen speaks. Now a new foreign law will also enter into force on 1 January. We will be able to have a debate – as we could read in the evening post today – on this system of requests for conversion. As the case emerged in the Evening Post, it is a system where there are many requests for conversion. It is a debate that the Storting must also take. I also hope that the Minister of Justice will take this with him – whether or not we should look at this right to revitalise. So you might get a new debate about whether you need a foreign student, or whether you should have a foreign court, as you have in our neighboring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1963	What made me take the floor and in particular make sure that there was an evening meeting was the Progress Party's lack of individual focus. Actually, I think this debate is going on against better knowledge, because Per-Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party also know that we are obliged to give people individual treatment, and that we cannot just mask immigration policy or asylum policy and reduce it to be a question of numbers and a question of appropriations. People are going to be treated separately based on the situation they're in. Then there will be many things that we do not control, which help to determine the asylum influx to Norway, not least what conditions are around the world. So to what I think there is a broad consensus in this Chamber, that we need to get control of the influx to Norway, that the number of asylum seekers needs to decrease, and that we need to streamline treatment in Norwegian asylum recipients and in the reception system. Why? As I see it, there are three reasons for it. Firstly, that is the cost perspective. There is no doubt that today we are spending too much resources on this overall. The second is that the system is faced with so many challenges that we have difficulties in achieving successful integration. I believe that the social debate in Norway has a general impact. I also believe that this is a major and growing problem across Europe. Then you're into the sustainability of the system. I mean, the numbers, as they are now, don't have sustainability in them. Heikki Holmås gave me the key words, 'Minarets', and he talked about the referendum that was in Switzerland. I don't think the result you got there, first of all, is a rash of a great desire to ban minarets. I think this is more about a general attitude, not only in Switzerland, but also in many other countries where you could get the same decision if you had the chance, where you see and feel that you haven't come far enough on the integration side, that you too much share the population in us and them, and that we haven't succeeded in making a little bigger we. One of the major challenges facing this room in the future is to be involved and drive a successful integration policy. Then I think we should ask ourselves the question of who it is coming, also set up against the number focus. Today we have an estimate of 18,500, and we're committed to accepting, I think, about 1,000 quota refugees from the United Nations. Of the 18,500, it's probably approx. half stay. I'm not convinced that it's the groups that manage to get to Norway from some part of the world, which are the ones that need our help the most, but it's definitely the ones we spend the most resources on. I therefore fully agree with and welcome the direction set out in the government statement, namely that we should reduce the number of asylum seekers and then increase the number of quota refugees. It's people who are prequalified, it's people who clearly and obviously have a great need for protection, it's people who are probably at the very bottom and lowest on the international ladder. So I essentially share many of the opinions that several people have expressed here, namely that our main challenge is to have decisions on faster deployment. I believe it is obvious that we need to speed up the processing of asylum applications. It is not just about increasing procedural capacity, but I think it is highly about procedural rules. It is not reasonable to have all the opportunities for reconversion and the appeals available in the Norwegian system today. I believe that we are going to have bigger challenges in terms of housing and integration in the future, a field that we need to take even more seriously. I believe that one of the biggest arguments for bringing down the number of asylum seekers is that we depend on successful integration. It also requires that we have control of the inflow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1978	Those who listen to this debate have to wonder a little about what we are really discussing. Then I can consecrate those present and those who had to listen to what this matter is. This case does not concern minarets, nor does it relate to an introduction to SV's view of the previous American administration, but it concerns something as simple and prosaic as that we now grant approx. 50 million. to improve the functioning of those dealing with the additional tasks of asylum applications. It is clear from the summary in the statement that the intention is for police action to be taken to strengthen procedural capacity and increase the number of shipments. It goes on to say: ‘Increased UDI and police processing capacity will, in combination with a more efficient deployment, dampen the pressure on the receiver.’ Those measures then require this additional allocation. It is not, therefore, the institution of asylum as such for discussion. It is not the asylum policy, which some representatives will be involved in, which is for discussion, whether the asylum policy should become clearer or the opposite, but it is getting it more consistent, and, you might say, having a stronger follow-up to the asylum policy that we already have. In this respect, we note from the Right that there is broad agreement on the measures proposed. It is a unanimous vote by the Committee. The SV and the Progress Party vote in favour of these 49 million. kr, for the purpose of speeding up dispatch. That's what this case is about. We also consider this to be a more realistic approach in broader political environments to what needs to be done in order to keep the asylum institution as the very important instrument it is, but then the prerequisite is that the legitimate asylum seekers do not drown in a sea of unjustified applications. And that's also what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e1992	I'm going to try to make this as short as possible, because I have a great understanding of the posts of the representative Tetzschner. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously supports the proposal for such a strengthening as has been proposed. That's absolutely necessary. However, as many people have been involved, perhaps one of the most important things we can do to reduce the growth of unwarranted asylum seekers, to actually get decisions made, and to be able to execute returns. We're totally dependent on that. There is a lot to be said here, and we are going to have a lot of opportunities to do so – what kind of policy we are going to have in this area, the material nature, the content of the rules and regulations, and what kind of administrative powers we need to be able to implement such legislation. However, I would say that the background to the proposal is the increase in the number of asylum seekers, where there is also a greater proportion of those who claim to be single minors. In the proposition presented, the predictions are that it will come about. 18 500 asylum seekers to Norway in 2009 compared with 15 000, which were taken into account in the revised national budget in 2009, and about 2 800 of them report being single minors. There are several complex reasons for this development. I'm not going to go into them now. The restrictive measures taken by the Government in 2008 and in September 2008 and July 2009 are important and will have an impact. An example of this being taken gradually is that the new Foreign Affairs Act will enter into force on 1 January. The representative Abid Raja is calling for a readmission agreement with Iraq – that we should conclude it. It was concluded in May. There are also returned Iraqis, so that we have had the same effect. There is reason to recall that in October 2009 the 2009 forecasts were downgraded from 18 500 to 17 500, and the number of single minors from 2 800 to 2 500, which may indicate – I stress – that these measures have had an impact. Of course, it remains to be assessed as long as the overall picture is not implemented. So I'm going to add myself to the sequence of those that emphasize how important it is that we don't turn these discussions into purely numerical debates. There are people behind every number — most of them have done nothing criminal, most of them have applied for asylum or stay, and are allowed to do so. That's good reason to bring it. I do not think we will get an effective policy that works in this area if we combine asylum seekers for too long with criminals in total. It is my hope that this will be an important contribution to the effectiveness of the decisions taken – that in the long term it is the language that is most clear to both the country of origin, potential new applicants and also other actors who may be behind and who make more or less money in that traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2007	Several have not signed up for case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The President will now draw attention to the fact that we are going beyond regulatory time, but the President will propose that we finalise today's map. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. [[See page 716]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2029	I have had a challenge, and that is to make a very brief article about a rather complicated matter. I'll try. I am asking for forgiveness if I get hurt to stumble into some names. I am going to drop everything that states the reasons for the case, just make sure that we have the matter decided, which is the use of coercive measures, seizure and reporting obligations and a certain place of residence. Until the new Foreign Affairs Act enters into force on 1 January 2010, the old law of 1988 applies. The provisions of the applicable law allowing for seizure of travel documents in order to clarify the identity of foreigners or to ensure the implementation of decisions to leave the country were continued, plus the extension of the provision to those cases where the foreigner does not really have the right to stay, but is nevertheless protected from expulsion. It is now proposed that this extended possibility of seizures should also be included in the current 1988 law, so that it can start to apply before the new law enters into force. The obligation to notify and the place of residence imposed by the applicable law applies to non-residents who refuse to provide an identity, are suspected of giving a false identity, or to ensure the implementation of a decision on expulsion. These provisions were also maintained in the new law, and at the same time extended to those protected from return. It is now proposed, as for the seizure of travel documents, that the new extension of opportunities for reporting obligations and the place of residence required be included in the 1988 Act in force for the speeding-up of the implementation of new measures to ensure better control. The last change applies to both the new and the old law. The freedom to seize in travel documents, reporting obligations and place of residence are proposed to include a wider circle of persons — those with a known identity which cannot be returned but for reasons other than protection against posting. It is unreasonable that the authorities should not be able to use the same coercive measures against persons for a weaker reason not to be returned than against those with a protection against dispatch, and perhaps even more unreasonable if we are not to be able to use the same coercive measures against those who cannot be returned and who are at the same time considered a threat to fundamental national interests, or to the security of the State, which are the old concepts. They will also be subject to the provisions on seizures, reporting obligations and the place of residence imposed. There is an overall committee which supports the Government's proposal to update both new and old legislation and the proposed extensions. However, the attitude is not unanimous on all points. The Progress Party is reprisals of the proposal to open up the detention of the latter group, i.e. those which pose a threat to fundamental national interests. It only has the support of the Progress Party. In the end, I want to make two mistakes in the proposition. They were discovered after the Committee gave its opinion and have followed them in the vote. The proposal for Decision No I reads: 'Law of 24 June 1988 No. 6’. It shall be: «In the Law of 24 June 1988 No. 64». Romans II states: ‘Law of 15 May 2008 No. 25». It shall be: ‘In the Law of 15 May 2008 No. 35».
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2052	The President is asking for peace in the Chamber, so that we can get the last case processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2055	I'm not going to try to make myself very unpopular in this room. I just want to refer to debates we've had on a number of occasions before, and I'm addressing our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2060	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2070	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2486	During the debate, 21 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-14, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 15-17, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 18-21, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 9, by the Progress Party and the Right, during the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government present its own report on trends, strategies and methods to combat an increasing level of international organised crime.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-6, proposal No 10) and proposals Nos. 12-14, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2580	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8 and 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2610	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–17, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2640	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2660	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2686	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the state take-over of responsibility for the operation of the website ‘Reported’ for further operations in order to ensure an increase in the percentage of disclosure, faster investigation and better prevention of the criminality of profits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e2701	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the proposal for a decision under the heading 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e4944	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e4953	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e4958	Let's do the voting again. The voting boards showed that there were 65 votes in favour and 43 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.20.39]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e4967	The secretary asks us to take the vote again, and the president takes the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e5833	During the debate, Mr Sigbjørn Aussogn put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government to submit a progress plan for the next 4 years for upgrading the ICT systems of the police, including the necessary changes for the implementation of the extended Schengen cooperation.’; The Christian People's Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6151	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6161	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6169	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The extended and adapted justice system for former children’s home and special school students also applies to children who have previously been in special schools for the disability, see Inner. S. No 217 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6200	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible an investigation that highlights the consequences of extending the mandate of the selections, as they emerge from the annual report of the Trond Dolva selections and the letter to the Presidentship of the Storting on 11 June 2009.’» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6396	During the debate, Mr Amundsen of the Progress Party put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Grand Government the necessary legislative changes in order to allow the detention of non-residents who have been found to be a threat to the national security or fundamental interests of the State.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal is placed on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6456	The President will refer the matter to the rapporteur who made Stortinget aware that there is a mistake in the title of I. It shall read: 'Act No. 24 June 1988 No. 64’, and not ‘No 64’, 6». In II, it shall read: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No. 35’, and not ‘No 25».
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6467	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6477	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-03.ana.ud1046e6508	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
