ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e55	The representative Per Ove Wideth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e75	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e86	A Joint Municipal and Administrative Committee today presents its opinion on the 2010 municipal proposal for the Stortinget. I would like to thank you for a good process in the Committee and at the same time I would like to point out that we have carried out a hearing on the matter on 25 May. The municipal sector manages much of the community's resources and is an important employer, authority operator, social developer and service provider. The income of the local government sector currently amounts to about 17 pst. of the gross domestic product of mainland Norway, and the sector stands at the base of 15 pst. hours worked in the country. According to the proposition, these proportions have been stable for the last seven years following the transfer of hospitals to the country. Today, it is an overall committee that stresses that good and predictable framework conditions for the municipal sector are important for the development of the country, for the development of local communities and for the quality of life of individual citizens. A good offer within basic services such as kindergarten, child protection, school, local health care and care for the elderly and others in need is, in the opinion of the Committee, absolutely necessary in a modern welfare society. The importance of the municipal sector as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare society is widely recognised and the entire Committee underlines the importance of municipalities and county municipalities as the arena for strong local democracy. This requires a good economy in each municipality so that local government members can develop a service offer tailored to the local challenges. The Committee also agrees that an equivalent service offer across the country is important for maintaining the pattern of residence and contributing to less centralisation. The municipal bill for 2010 describes the government’s policy for the municipal sector, the financial structure for the next year, changes in the current year and changes in the income system for municipalities and county municipalities. The administrative reform and change in the division of tasks are described as well as a number of individual themes. The proposition also describes developments in the local government sector, both in terms of organisation and in terms of economics, and is therefore interesting to note for those who are particularly interested. I therefore disagree with the Prime Minister's statements on the presentation of the municipal proposition on 15 May this year that this is the driest document in the government. He also said, however, that this is one of the most important and most technical documents. I very much agree with that! There is, of course, disagreement between the parties about how best to provide good framework conditions for municipalities and county councils, and I will try to present some of the differences of opinion in the position later on in the post. Nevertheless, the articles of the individual batches will provide additional information on this. My impression of the comments in the settings is that all parties want better services in the municipalities, but that the entrance to how this is to be done and the distribution you want in the country is different. The ratio of county councils, designation versus framework transfer, free tax collectors, discretionary frames, unit price financing, cost keys and the various grants distinguish us. For us in the government parties, it is important to point out that the Government will continue its efforts in the local government sector in 2010, adding up to a real growth in the total revenue of DKK 5 billion – DKK 6 billion, measured according to the 2009 up-to-date estimates in the revised national budget 2009. This is in addition to DKK 32 billion in increased revenue for the period 2005-2009. Compared to the level in the 2009 budget, the Government's proposal represents a growth in the free revenues of DKK 6.5 billion for 2010. We aim to continue to strengthen the provision of services in municipalities and Community solutions. We believe that the investment in this period up to now has contributed to an employment growth of 30 000–35 000 annual works. According to the proposal, 38 400 more children have had kindergarten since 2005, and we reach the construction goal of the kindergarten agreement for the autumn. In municipal care services, staffing increased by 12,500 yearly jobs in the years 2006, 2007 and 2008. This is the number taken from the Statistical Central Bureau. For the primary education sector, the total growth in agreed annual works was about 5,200 over the same period. That is why we believe that the strengthening of the local economy has enabled municipalities to expand the range of offers that have been prioritised from government and large-scale. It is also shown that the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list has fallen sharply. A total opposition paired these numbers with the government having created an expectation crisis in Kommune-Norway that it has by no means followed up. To that I just have to say that the last two years have been demanding for many municipalities, with high growth in employment, cost growth, high investment levels and increased interest and tax burden. In addition, several municipalities had significant losses in financial placements, which together resulted in a very weak performance for the sector. We are also very aware of the documentation that has been provided, including that provided. by KS, on large differences between municipalities in financial performance in 2008 and on year-to-year variations for the sector as a whole. It is therefore important to bet long-term and predictable. We believe that the changes in the income system for municipalities adopted in 2009 will contribute to this. I believe that the growth of activity in the municipalities shows that the municipalities are joining forces with the Government and are working hard to provide an increased level of service. We are proud of our focus on municipalities, although not all challenges are solved. The response of the KS to the presentation of the municipal bill and the revision of the national budget was also positive. Among other things, it was said: ‘A growth of SEK 4 billion for the municipal sector next year, together with the increase in the package of measures and the revision of the national budget, will help to correct some of the imbalances in the local economy’. The changes in the current income system will make the municipalities and county municipalities more predictable and make the income more predictable by introducing a equal counting date for population and introducing income guarantee subsidies also for county municipalities. The conversion also reduces the tax share of the free income and improves the cohesion of tax revenues between municipalities. The consolidation of these changes will also continue until the next year and in 2011. Otherwise, there is a joint committee that has noted KS’ support for the Oslo Municipality that there is still sub-compensation for the state child protection tasks for which Oslo is responsible. The Committee therefore asks that this issue be further discussed before the final establishment of the new capital grant in the submission of the 2010 State Budget, which also means that the current two capital grants, to Oslo as a municipality and to Oslo as a county municipality, become one capital grant. Administrative reform represents an important strengthening of the regional level from next year. NOK 7.4 billion will be added to the new tasks transferred to the county municipalities. We believe that this is a good economic approach to the reform. In particular, it is important that county councils receive an increase in the permanent free income when they become responsible for the national roads from 2010 onwards, except for the tribal roads. The majority have also underlined the responsibility of the State to enable the counties financially to establish and maintain a satisfactory road standard. The Right Party and the Progress Party believe that the country is best served by two levels of government, and believe that this will contribute to more efficiency, especially when combined with a single price, which facilitates competition and innovation. The Christian People's Party and the Left, like the government parties, believe that the country is best served by three elected levels, but the comments on the division of tasks that are being made, I leave to the respective parties to comment further. Nevertheless, I would like to point out the work carried out by the Committee in connection with the building law in winter, and the demands made by an overall committee for the universal design of public buildings. The Government shall plan next year for the universal design of the different categories of existing public buildings. I expect the different departments of these buildings and installations to be below, to follow up with the means to implement this in the coming years. The municipal committee for this period shall be proud of this important decision. Finally, I would like to say something about the challenges ahead for the local government sector. Municipalities are affected by the financial crisis. The Ministry of Local Affairs therefore retains considerable resources of discretion for municipalities that are suddenly facing unforeseen expenditure during the financial year. Overall, the municipal sector received SEK 6.4 billion from the winter package of measures, among other things. maintenance and upgrading of buildings and infrastructure. This showed us the strength of the local government sector to counteract the economic downturn, unemployment and loss of welfare services resulting from the financial crisis – and at the same time provided great value creation. An overall committee is concerned with the great uncertainty associated with the effects of the financial crisis in the municipal sector. Estimates show that social assistance costs can increase by several hundred million dollars if unemployment increases considerably. Tax access can be reduced by increasing unemployment. There is reason to believe that the results of this may vary from municipality to municipality. The Committee therefore asks the Government to monitor developments closely and, if necessary, to contribute to increased appropriations. The changes made to the municipal law to enable municipalities which are particularly hard hit by the financial crisis to allocate deficits over a period of up to 10 years in order to avoid large cuts in service provision are therefore welcomed by the entire Committee. In the coming years, municipalities have a number of new challenges and tasks. The municipal sector will have important tasks within a new climate and environmental policy. The community health service is to be strengthened and redirected, with an increased focus on prevention and public health, because we are getting older — and more and more older. The transfer of tasks in the wake of the administrative reform will be demanding, not least for county municipalities. This will require close and good cooperation between the different levels of government. A sensible consultation system is important, and its evaluation must take account of the new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e141	Not since the concept of results – i.e. how to measure the economy in the municipalities – was introduced in 1991, the economy has been weaker for the municipalities. The representative was concerned that KS thought that there were now some positive features at the municipality's proposal, but there were also some negative ones when they looked at how much money was allocated to the municipalities. We're getting a lot of calls from local politicians. We read about centre party rapporteurs around the country who are really dissatisfied. We also see that the Chairman of the Municipal and Administrative Committee has made his statement on the website of the County of Oppland. He says it's a "lift, but not enough." What does he add to "not enough"? What's enough for the Center Party and the red-green parties of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e150	What is then enough for the municipal sector, we have to measure how satisfied the citizens are with the services they receive. We've seen articles by e.g. Bent Höie from the Right, which points out that the growth in the last government period is equal to what we have in this government period. Then we just have to point out that the last year – where one adds up to a large real growth in municipal income, at 3.3 p.m., and with a total of 9.5 million. extra NOK to the municipalities – not included.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e155	In the right, it is important to strengthen local self-government and the ability of local authorities to facilitate growth and good living conditions. The red-green government is laying on its side great leaderships and limitations. For example, I can. Please mention that the building ban in the 100 meter belt along the sea is tightened, and I can mention that in attempts at task-sharing, the government has stopped pilot projects that have been very successful. The government has weakened the municipalities by giving the county councils greater opportunity to review elected decisions in the municipalities, and this leads to the county council also having great power. The highways are transferred to the counties without enough money. And the list is not exhaustive. Can the representative mention three examples of the red-green government giving municipalities greater local freedom of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e162	First of all, I would like to point out that the proposals made by large sections of the opposition in terms of price financing are no good news for the future representative of local government. I would say that for municipalities and local self-government it is very important that they themselves design the service offered to their own inhabitants, and that the different municipalities in Norway are given the opportunity to do so in the best possible way. When, for example: concerns the limit for building in the beach zone, which was introduced by the new plan law, it is only for the centre party's people to admit that we did not think this was good enough. We would have liked more municipalities to have greater authority over the coastal zone in their municipality – as you can see from the traditions that many coastal communities have to build in the coastal zone. We had hoped that we could have got a better solution, and we're not hiding it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e169	First, I would be allowed to thank the case rapporteur for the municipal proposition for giving a very correct picture of the situation, as the Christian People's Party sees it. There are two points I would like to raise: firstly, what the rapporteur said about the situation in Norwegian municipalities. The last two years have been demanding – that’s right. It is also reflected in the proposition and in the leadership. The Christian People's Party fully agrees. The second thing we fully agree with is that it is becoming demanding for the county councils now that the big task they take on with the administrative reform is the new county roads, which may appear to be underfunded. So we agree on what the situation is. But then I have a question for the rapporteur and the centre party. It's about the administrative reform, which, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, became a step in the right direction, but a small step. The Christian People's Party wants us to find more tasks to transfer to the county for the forthcoming ageing period. What is the views of the Centre Party and the Government on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e178	I guess that's a problem for all of us sitting in the hall here. And we have to assume that it's not easy for us sitting here either, to transfer our power to the municipalities and county councils. Of course, this isn't an eternal task. The situation is not such that the task distribution is determined once and for all. The division of tasks between municipalities, counties and the state must be constantly assessed and looked at. However, in the case of transfers of special national roads to county councils, the opposition points out that there is initially too little funding. Now we're going to remember that there was an extra $1 billion in the revised national budget that goes on in the years to come. In addition, we have an interest-rate compensation scheme of NOK 2 billion, which will make a strong contribution to reintroducing our new state roads. This is a much better use of the money, by allowing county councils to borrow money and complete large-scale projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e183	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e187	First of all, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his good work. I share her description of the status and challenges in the municipal sector. If we sum up this ageing period, we have the basis to say that there has been a strong growth in the incomes and activities of the local government sector, although many municipalities today feel that there is a challenging situation. And as we all know, 2008 became a challenging year for many municipalities for different reasons, including: the financial crisis, estimated by the KS to be less than NOK 2–2,5 billion. This is why, in several rounds, the Government has strengthened the sector’s free revenues, first in the original budget for 2009, then in the crisis package that came in January, and in the context of the revised national budget and the municipal budget, which we are now discussing – a total of SEK 6.5 billion in growth in free income. Many figures are about the municipal economy, and the rapporteur has been in writing about the main figures. But the most important thing is that municipalities have money to hire people who can provide citizens with safe and good welfare services. And the municipalities employ more people. Since the government change in 2005 until the end of 2008, the number of annual works has increased by more than 30 000 and the municipalities employ skilled staff. The proportion of health and social education in the care sector is increasing, and over 10,000 more had such education in 2008 compared with 2005. That's also how we get better quality of care. When one compares the growth of annual work in this period with the previous period, the differences are large, strikingly large – yes, so large that I think it should be the basis for some ice of humility in view of the self-action of the government, especially when parts of it are referred to, were pushed through after budgetary agreements in the Storting. I also record that the Right, with the support of the Left, does not take over the very different assumptions of municipalities, in terms of obtaining tax revenue. Once again, municipalities need to retain more of tax revenue – i.e. a policy for less cohesion and greater differences in service provision, and thus between people. The local economy is not only about how much the sector gets by billions and millions, but also to a large extent about how the money is distributed. The case rapporteur, Brustad Moe, was involved in transfers of responsibility for other national roads to the county council as a result of the administrative reform. I believe that the appropriations and the corresponding interest-rate compensation scheme provide the basis for saying that there will be a good start to the reform, where road and collective provision can also be better seen in the context of regional development work elsewhere. This does not least mean that a good start is now being made on a large-scale movement effort that will be stepped up in the coming years and will provide the necessary improvement and development of both national and county roads throughout the country. In the context of the administrative reform, the county council is also given responsibility for the vocational school offer. The majority of the Committee is concerned that the large variations currently existing between county municipalities in the provision of vocational schools must be taken into account when the funds for the vocational schools are incorporated into the budget of the counties from the following year onwards. The offer will also be and will be changing, as needs change, both regionally and nationally. However, it is important that well-established specialised school services — with satisfied students, often from different places in the country — can maintain the offer. Growth in free income is often used as a measure of the potential for further development of welfare services, but it is not the only thing that tells of improvements in welfare provision. The kindergarten sector is a very good example. Through considerable local and national spending, we have witnessed the historic expansion of kindergartens in recent years. From 2005 to 2008, 38 000 more children have been placed in kindergarten. During the same period, the number of annual work in kindergartens has increased by almost 30 pst. Many municipalities have full child care coverage. However, there is still some work to be done in some municipalities, so that all parents who want to do so can have their children's daycare facilities. It is also useful to record that there is a dialogue between the Ministry of Knowledge and the KS on a common understanding of the cost calculations of childcare facilities. I believe that we will find a good solution here. It's important to get to the goal of kindergarten. I also welcome the fact that the Committee is united on the comments relating to the consultation system. It gives an important and good signal, and I think it strengthens the consultation system. In the end, the action zone in Finnmark and Nord-Troms is not a community economic zone, to put it that way. But the municipalities of Nord-Troms have what I would call more arguments it is worth listening to when they talk about non-discrimination – or at least increased non-discrimination – with the Finnmark municipalities. Therefore, it is appropriate to make good use of the time until the government budget is due to be presented, in order to look at the possibilities of doing something more about this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e211	The representative, Mr Hagebakken, has a background as a municipal politician, former rapporteur. He may be familiar with the difficult situation that local politicians can experience when state and government show growth in the local economy, while at the grassroots level and at the local politicians the opposite is true. This is the situation today – The government boasts of increased income for municipalities while costs have increased more than income. The reality out there is that there is being cut over a low shoe in the budgets for important services to the inhabitants. Does not the representative, Mr Hagebakken – as a municipal politician – find it a little difficult to stand up to these claims of a strong local economy when it comes to putting municipal politicians out there in a big mess in the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e218	I have no problem seeing Norwegian municipal politicians in my eyes. They have no better friends in national politics than us red-green. Over the last four years, we've provided 12 billion dollars more in total income than we saw in the previous period, and a total growth of 7 billion dollars in free income compared to the previous period. The arrangement we now have for the 2010 municipal proposal is just as good as the former municipal minister Erna Solberg proposed in his four municipal proposals – together. A lot may be better, but I think we're very upright because by prioritising well-being in front of tax laws, we've given a considerable amount of money. We're going to fill in more, because we're going to continue in the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e225	On Friday, the government is putting forward an interaction reform, and I am convinced that the interaction reform will succeed if one gets in place larger and more robust municipalities. If not, can e.g. the patient becomes a loser. We now have a situation in child protection that shows that child protection is unable to deal with the situation of children who become caste balls between institutions. I am convinced that larger municipalities had given better child protection. One sees a Nav reform that is not complete, precisely because one does not have the ability to give municipalities a greater share and more control of the instruments in Nav. I am convinced that the users of Nav had received a better offer if you had had bigger municipalities with a greater responsibility. My question to the representative is: Would it not now be sensible to implement a municipal reform that provides larger and more robust municipalities, in the interests of the patient, in the interests of children in child protection and in the interests of the users of Nav – whose welfare is most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e232	In its programme for the next four years, the Labour Party says about the same thing as we said in the current four-year programme, and there is a need for changes in the municipal structure. But we don't want to use force, we want to stimulate. Now it is that this interaction reform is also a challenge, because very many municipalities in the country need to interact in order for us to get this to what we want. We also look at other forms of cooperation. The municipal minister has been involved in joint municipal councils, whether this could be an alternative. At all, it is now important that municipalities have more tools in their toolbox, in order to find good cooperation solutions. I believe that merging could be a good and good option for many municipalities, and I hope many will consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e239	This ageing period started with promises of an escalating plan in the municipal economy. There were a few steps, at least one step up from 2006 – and then there was a relatively modest step in the process. We see that the last two years have become demanding in terms of the local economy, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur. One of the reasons why it has become demanding for Norwegian municipalities is that they have planned and invested on the basis of expectations created by the Government. This believes the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left create the need for more predictability. It is such that municipalities should know how much money they have to deal with the first, second and third years ahead, when they invest and plan both what to build and what to do in their municipality. That is why we have proposed a multi-annual plan, that we work together with the CS and draw up a multi-annual plan. We would like to include the government parties in this and ask for a comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e244	The absolute best step-up plan that the local government could get was a red-green government. I don't think we could have made a plan that contained such a powerful escalation as was actually the result. I want to show that in 2006, nearly 8 billion kroner of extraordinary tax revenue came to the municipalities – they got to keep that money. It has not been common for municipalities to keep this kind of money, but the municipalities had to do it then. It meant a lot. I would like to participate in any dialogue that can increase the predictability of the municipalities. Not least the increasing importance of the consultation mechanism, for which an overall committee stresses the importance, is also a good basis for more predictability. That is where I agree with the representative, Mr Tørresdal, that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e254	We are now at the end of the four-year period of the red-green government. We can take stock of perhaps one of the most important election promises that the parties that are currently in the Red-Green Government had before the 2005 elections: the local economy would get a lift, a so-called historic boost. This was to be one of the important areas in which the Government was to deliver. Today we take stock, today we look at the accounts – and the accounts are not very good reading. If you are to listen to the SSB, as you should, this government has set a historic record. Never before in Norwegian history has net operating results for Norwegian municipalities been worse than they experienced in 2008. I'm not going back as far as the Presidency Act in 1837, but at least as long as you've been doing this type of calculations – back to 1991 – you've never seen a lower municipal economy in Norway. This is what the red-green government has provided, in the light of the promises made before the 2005 elections. I think the government parties should be happy that the marketing law cannot be applied in relation to misleading political messages. In that case, this government and these parties had been very thin. The reason why the situation has changed has little to do with what it always refers to, namely the level of income of Norwegian municipalities. Anyone who has run a bit of a banal accounting knows that accounting is made up of two main sides — one must also take into account costs, the costs incurred by Norwegian municipalities. There is little point in referring to 32 billion kroner in increased income for municipalities when the costs out there have increased more. It becomes totally uninteresting, without me going into the debate about which government was worst, Bondevik II or Stoltenberg II, to compare income levels, income allocation to the municipalities, if you do not compare the level of costs at the same time. These are the realities. So we're writing the result in 2009, we're seeing what this government has actually delivered – I don't want to use the word «svik», but I think there are a lot of local politicians out there in the whole country who feel that the government has at least not delivered in relation to its own political rhetoric. So you can ask yourself, is it a coincidence that recruitment problems for local policy are gradually being experienced, that people are refusing to participate in local policy processes? I have to say that I have some sympathy with some local politicians out there, who are going to live up to the enormous expectations that this government has set up through its rhetoric, and through its claims about historical bets in Norwegian municipalities. Because the reality out there is of course a completely different one. When the cost increases more than the income, yes, it has to be cut in the budgets – it has to be cut in the care of the elderly, cut out in school, put down schools and the municipal service level is not where it should be. Who is responsible? Well, it's local politicians who have to try to explain to their own people that they don't get as much money as the government has said. I wish that this government had behaved more fairly towards local elected representatives and the job to be done, that the local politicians are not put in the situation that many people out there experience, namely that there is a misunderstanding between the government's rhetoric on the one hand and the actual policy on the other. My heartfelt appeal is to show a little more respect for the important job that local politicians are actually doing. The Progress Party has throughout this period proposed more money to the municipalities than the Government has provided. Overall, we have proposed nearly 10 billion kroner in addition to the government's plans. We have a slightly different device – it should be said. We want to earmark a greater proportion of the extra funds we provide to municipalities, just to provide care for the elderly, school and social services – the most important services to be provided by Norwegian municipalities. That is why, today, we also have a concrete proposal for a higher rate of investment in the municipal economy for 2010 than that proposed. We are proposing DKK 7.5 billion in increase compared to the 2009 budget. This is in line with what KS has asked for, but I note that the Progress Party is the only party that follows it up. This is a debate that you try to get started every time you discuss community economics. The Progress Party wants a different form of funding for basic welfare services. We want unit-price financing, and we want a state guarantee that a health shelter is directly funded by the state. We want there to be the need for a school place that triggers money from the state, not like today, through an ingenious framework funding system where there is necessarily no relation between activity on the one hand and actually spent money through the framework on the other. We want to legislate for, among other things, a nursing home place. We don't think that's unreasonable, all the time we have a government that has actually introduced the legal right to fruit and green in school. We see, of course, that this is a major reform, but it is not at all insurmountable. It is a necessary reform, because the more you study the income system, the more you see the intricate, very complex and little transparent that lies in this system, which also seems reasonably random. Among other things, I can refer to an example that we consider in the cancellation, the small municipal grant, which is given to municipalities with less than 3,200 inhabitants. There are examples of municipalities that have lost 10 million. NOK in income because there were too many people living in the municipality on the census date. This is a completely unreasonable part of the income system. It goes without saying that there has to be a need that triggers resources, not statistical models that you sit and calculate in the Ministry of Local Affairs. It is also important to point out that this proposition does not mention the income system at all in view of the primary municipalities. Some mention is made of the counties, but not of the primary municipalities. In this context, the adjustment of the North Norway and Namdal grants in the case of action zones has previously been a theme in relation to the North Troms municipalities and Finnmark municipalities for the purpose of non-discrimination. This has not been mentioned at all, despite the fact that the Committee has previously asked for it. I also miss a clearer commitment to putting in place a more efficient, forward-looking municipal structure. Here you have the opportunity to use positive tools to put in place more powerful municipalities – but there is also something that is unfortunately totally absent from this proposition. I just want to mention the example of the Bjarkøy connection, which could start a municipal merger between Harstad and Bjarkøy Municipality. I would like to take up with it the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own or with other parties. And then I want to correct the setting when it comes to proposal No. 13 – in the event of an incurrency, it is not the right parties who stand as proposers. Proposal No. 13 are from the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e280	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e286	The Progress Party likes to appear as a party occupied by local self-government, which is opposed to all forms of state over-government of local politicians. Earmarked income, on the other hand, is the lot of in strie flows. In civilised municipalities, important political decisions have also been left to the administration. If you look at what the party really stands for, it's limiting local self-government. The party is too more governmental governance towards municipalities, with the designation of important welfare tasks, such as: health, care, primary, secondary and social services. I would call this distrust of local self-government. If the Progress Party gets what they want, there won't be many tasks left for the local politicians in Municipality-Norway. What will our competent local politicians be responsible for? And how many municipalities do the Progress Party think it is necessary in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e295	There were many questions at once, but let me take what the representative spent most time on, first. It is not correct, as it is presented here, that the desire of the Progress Party to introduce price financing is of any importance to local self-government. The local selfgovernment to which reference is made is thus a fictitious selfgovernment, for the problem today is that the basic welfare services per person. definition is underfunded. If you call it local democracy and local self-government, and cutters in basic welfare services, yes, then we're very divided. The point here is that important issues that local democracy should have far greater control than today, this government is doing what it can to keep it down – whether we are talking about the right to decide on important issues such as asylum recipients in its own municipality, whether we are talking about the planning and building law, or whether we are talking about property taxes, which are actually pushing the municipalities to introduce. These are the issues. This government will have local democracy only to the extent that it is in line with the Government's own political desires and ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e304	In a time when enthusiasm is great, it often goes beyond the level of precision. This number showed us the level of precision we're operating on. I want to start from what's in the setting where Progress Parties write: ‘These members therefore wish to contribute around 7,5 billion. costs more to the municipalities in 2010 than the Government adds.’ The government is planning to add approx. DKr 5-6 billion. That means that $7.5 billion more on a single calculation is going to be $13 to $14 billion. However, that is not what the proposal for a decision states – and the decision is interesting. The Progress Party writes the following: ‘The government’s request in the 2010 draft government budget is to build on a strengthening of the local government sector by 7.5 billion. dollars in relation to the 2009 State budget.’.» ‘Respective of the 2009 State budget’ is likely to mean less money for municipalities in 2010 than the government parties put up to if we are to interpret this as it is written. We're going to do some reading of the text, and we're going to have to expect a certain level of precision from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e321	It is possible this is difficult mathematics for the representative of Rikvam. We have based on the proposal that KS originally made, but which unfortunately this government has not followed up. So we want an increase in the 2010 state budget of NOK 7.5 billion. The problem with this government is that it has included the Action Package, the Revised National Budget (RNB), and has been adjusted for changes in tax conditions. So it's a real undercover in a place between $2 million and $2 billion. That's the real numbers. I don't think this is particularly difficult if Requam puts these numbers down on the paper and calculates it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e328	No matter how the Advance Party rains, at least they don't have NOK 7.5 billion more than the government's arrangement. We must agree on that in this Chamber. But I have another question. Every time we discuss the municipal proposition, the Progress Party says that they have a different financial arrangement and that they have a single price financing. But we don't get the formula. I ask again – as I did last year, in the previous year and the year before: what is the formula? Is it so that the price of a school place in Utsira is equal to the price of a school place in primary school in Oslo? If it's not equal to, what formula does one then use to assume that it actually costs different to set up school places around this slightly particular geographic country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e335	This isn't very difficult. We have very good data bases, for example. through the COSTRA system – a great thing you can use to figure this out. Of course, we will rely on experience data and real costs in Norwegian municipalities, but it is true that we want a differentiation that ensures different cost factors in a good way. Anyway, this is a much less complicated system than the current income system is. The problem is two-sided. When you have to calculate the real costs for Norwegian municipalities, you have a price on one side and an activity on the other. The activity we want to solve by doing it needs-based and automatically triggered. It's just a question of calculating the right price. The problem with today's system is that you don't have a proper understanding of what is the real price, or what is the real level of activity. Thus, the system of the Progress Party will be far more fair than today's system, and it will be proportionate to the real needs of the Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e347	It is natural today to settle the status after almost four years of red-green municipal policy and look at the difference between the Right configuration and the Government's structure. I can do it very easily by quoting the Statistical Central Bureau: ‘Preliminary national figures for 2008 show a marked deterioration in the finances of municipalities compared to 2007. The net operating surplus of municipalities is estimated at 0 per cent of revenue in 2008, which is the worst result ever measured.» Net operating surplus is the Government's own calculation sample for the main indicator of the local government economy for economic balance objective in the local government sector. When the red-green government took over, the result was good over the target, over 3 pst. In this area, too, the red-green government came to the covered table – as Arne Strand in the Daily newspaper expressed it at the change of government. But this number obviously doesn't tell us everything. It tells us something about how municipalities will be able to invest and develop over time, but not so much about the service provision in the year to which they apply. As the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs wrote to me in reply to Question 1206 this year: ‘From the point of view of the population, the development of total income is most interesting, as the level of total income of the municipal sector indicates the extent of the municipal welfare services.’ I fully agree with that. We only have comparable numbers, from 2002 to 2008. The reason for this is the transfer of the specialist healthcare service to the municipal sector in 2002 and that we do not know the phase for 2009. If we compare the growth in percent over the three-year period from 2002 to 2005 for the Bondevik II government with the growth in percent over the three-year period from 2005 to 2008 for the Stoltenberg II government, it shows a growth of 4.7 pst, respectively. for the Bondevik II Government and 4,6 pst. for the Stoltenberg II Government. When I drew these figures out in a reading in the Municipal Report, there was a quick response from the municipal minister. She then came with the two figures that I expect us to hear a lot in this debate today, and not least in the election campaign further. With the changes for 2009 being made to the RNB, the income of the municipal sector has increased by NOK 32 billion over this period, and similar figures under the Bondevik II government were DKK 19.6 billion according to the municipal minister. This appears to be a major difference, especially given that the figures are also corrected for the cost increase for the transfer of tasks and for new tasks assigned. But in addition, the Minister of State writes what is called "small writing" in the insurance language: ‘Correctification for demography is not taken into account, but otherwise these numbers are directly comparable.’ I almost have to ask if someone has heard anything similar in the past. It is alarming that a local and regional minister lets something like that pass with his name below, as if demography was a small detail when comparing a municipal economy between two different periods. We have figures in crowns that take into account the conditions of the figures of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and demography. Then, however, we have to limit ourselves to three years – because of the circumstances I mentioned earlier in the article. According to the November Technical Calculation Report, these figures are DKK 21.6 billion and DKK 23.3 billion respectively, i.e. a difference of DKK 1.6 billion over a period when the total revenue of the municipal sector in 2008 was 284.7 billion in 2009-krona. These are numbers that aren't as impressive as the figures the Council of State presented in small print. But I think the line is already written, because there's no number that matters, there's the number of warm hands in the care of the elderly. Fortunately, we also have new numbers from the SSB and KOSTRA this week. The figure that the Council of State will draw on in its statement is likely to be 14100 new annual works in the care sector. But it is not just the number of warm hands in the care and care sector that is crucial. It is also important how many need the warm hands. Once again, the demography plays a little kiss on the council. If we look at the coverage, we have the following phase: Annual work excluding absence, i.e. sick leave, in user-oriented services per. the average recipient in all municipalities in 2005 was 4,4. It increased to 4.5 in 2006, to 4.6 in 2007 – and remained stable in 2008 to 4.6. When Prime Minister candidate Jens Stoltenberg promised in the 2005 election campaign that care for the elderly would shine and that one would receive 10,000 new warm hands, does the President then believe that the voters understood him there that he would maintain about the same level of care for the elderly as in the 2005 election year? No, of course they thought this would mean a quality improvement. But now we have been told in Stortinget that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has never promised that the care of the elderly should go away – he promised that he would not lower the taxes until the care of the elderly shined. So this was just a finer way to say that the offer to the elderly was good enough – but there were higher taxes. I've concentrated on comparing municipal economy with comparable figures from two different periods of ageing. My claim is that development is somewhat similar, but that there has been a slightly higher growth overall in this period, due to the large growth in 2006, but that the local economy was more balanced in 2005 than it is now. But it gives an even better picture when you compare the government's municipal structure in this period with Røre's municipal layout in the same period. In 2006, the difference was clear. 3.5 billion kroner more were paid to the municipalities than the right proposed in its order. But here it's an important moment. On the right, a significantly higher taxpayer suggested, which would have left the municipalities with a greater share of the tax increase that came that year – and it was not insignificant. In addition, the Right has proposed a scheme for municipalities with the same framework as the Government in 2007, 2008, 2009 and now for 2010. The main difference is that every year the Right has proposed that municipalities retain a larger proportion of the tax revenue locally, retain some of the corporation tax, and we have joined the KS's objective that municipalities should, overall, receive half of the income from their own tax revenue. Therefore, when the Government in the further debate will refer to the number of nurses, the number of kindergartens and the number of teachers, then the answer from the Right is quite obvious: this is good. The right has suggested exactly the same thing. If we are to move on with regard to the ability of municipalities to provide good welfare services to citizens, it no longer holds with just more money. We also have to do something about the municipal structure. On Friday, the Government presents the so-called interaction reform. Behind the reform lies an analysis which is behind the right. The growth we have seen in specialist health care in the last ten years is not sustainable, and the main challenge will be to prevent further growth in lifestyle diseases. That's when the local health service is the answer. It has to be expanded, we have to handle multiple tasks locally, and it has to be a shared responsibility for patients. Prevention must pay off, but today’s municipalities will not be able to deal with such a reform. Right cannot accept that sick people are being lost in a reform where the municipalities are not prepared for the tasks and the role they are given. Today, we have child protection that does not work because the municipal structure prevents municipalities from taking more responsibility. We have a Nav reform that doesn't work because the municipalities can't take more responsibility. We have a drug reform that doesn't work because the municipalities can't take a greater responsibility. We centralise planning processes and weaken local self-government because the municipalities are too small to take responsibility for themselves. We are in the process of building up a huge resource-intensive and undemocratic vortex of intercommunal cooperation organisations, because the municipalities realize that they themselves are too small to carry out today's tasks. The most enjoyable thing in this setting about the possibility of providing better welfare services to citizens is that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in their comments say that the number of municipalities can be reduced favourably. This means that during the next enlargement period, we can have the opportunity to do something about what appears to be the greatest obstacle to further developing the Norwegian welfare community. It is absolutely necessary to do this in the interests of patients, in the interests of children's protection, in the interests of the users of Nav, in order to enable the voters to understand the link between the voting rights they place in the ballot box and the policies pursued in local municipalities. That context would be completely impossible to know with the vortex of inter-communal cooperation organisations as it is. For me, as a resident of Stavanger, it is absolutely impossible today to put politicians in charge of a material thing such as this. the charge on water and sewerage. It is not possible to place responsibility in one place, the responsibility is powdered. This will now, after the interaction reform presented by the Government on Friday, not only focus on inter-municipal solutions for technical tasks. It will be the fundamental tasks of our society, and that reform will be fundamentally undemocratic if one does not carry out a community reform at the same time. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is involved. I also want to correct a mistake. It says in the setting that the Right is behind proposal No. 13, which we don't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e394	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions that he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e399	The representative Bent Höie spoke warmly about the care and care sector in his post, which I am pleased with. It seems that this issue is becoming an important issue in the election campaign, because despite the fact that the red-green government has implemented a massive rise in the local economy and has also introduced many new hands into that sector, new challenges are still to be addressed. Then it's important that the voters, when they decide which coalition they want to have power, know what they actually vote for. The problem for the Right is that you want to cooperate with the Progress Party. We have heard in this Chamber, also in this debate, Per-Willy Amundsen speak warmly about their alternative solution, a so-called state price financing. No one knows what it really involves, but what we can say with certainty is that it will lead to more bureaucracy, less local democracy. Can we go into an election campaign with uncertainty about which model you choose, or is right a guarantor that such an attack on local democracy will not come about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e406	All those who know the Right Programme, the Right Notes and suggestions on how to develop the Municipality of Norway know that the Right has been in the rush to liquidate earmarked schemes to give municipalities greater autonomy. I believe that one of the reasons why the model of the Progress Party can gain a growing connection is precisely the problem of the municipal structure, because the municipal structure is also a cause for a more and more complicated income system, which thus appears to be more and more unfair. The income system that this government provided, which was supposed to be a clean-up, a simplification, really became a complication and a strengthening of the injustice that exists. If one wants to strengthen local democracy, strengthen the ability of the municipalities to dispose of their own income, the safest thing for the harvest is to vote Right. There are no parties that tend to get through for positions that they have alone in this room. The points of view that are put forward are those that bring together broad openness, and it does not make the proposals of the Progress Party on unit-price financing at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e414	I'm tracking Bent Höie running a campaign in here. That's good, but there may not be so many voices to pick up. So for the post of Bent Höie. With regard to the description of the municipal economy itself and the description of the number of people entering the care sector, there is probably no reason to disagree very much and to have a great deal of polemics about the number of people. Whether it's 12,000, 11,000 or 8,000, I don't think that's important. But I could imagine asking Bent Höie: if we take this four-year period, how many billion more should the municipalities have had in order for it to “skin” – the representative used the word several times – of the care of the elderly? How many billions should a hat? How many additional billions does the Right believe there is a need in the municipal sector in 2010? In terms of municipal structure and taking that effect, we don't get to do it in 2010, but at least in 2013, 2014, 2015 or when it's necessary. But let's stick to 2010: how many billion more do Right should go in so that the municipalities can live in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e423	This will be answered well by the representative in the configuration. In fact, the right is saying that in the state budget that the Right is going to be included and provided for 2010, we are going to create a municipal scheme that, overall, has the same income framework as the government parties are now proposing. We have proposed that in 2009. We have proposed that in 2008, and we have proposed that in 2007. The difference is that in all these years, the Right has said that this is a sober and tight arrangement that requires conversion in the municipal sector. 1 pst. In contrast to the Government which has helped to make the situation in Kommune-Norge considerably more difficult by creating the impression that this is a liberal scheme, which has created an expectation crisis in Kommune-Norge, as expressed by a unanimous KS County Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e428	On the right, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Municipal Council had in the last period. It was a tough period for many municipalities. In 2004, there were 119 municipalities on the ROBEK list, the list of municipalities on the brink of bankruptcy. Today there's 42 left. The real growth in total income in the municipal sector has been DKK 12 billion more in this period than in the Erna period. An average municipality would have had NOK 2 000 less per. it is intended to route if the crop had continued as in the previous period. Many of the additional revenues have been used by municipalities to get away from the ROBEK list and to take back neglected maintenance. There would be greater profit in the accounts over the last four years if this thin period had not been so tough. It is mainly those who need the most municipal services, the youngest and the oldest, who have lost four years of money to tax relief instead of better local economy. Doesn't the Right feel a lack of conscience because they prioritise tax laws so high?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e435	No, by no means. Right-wing tax relief helped create the record-breaking growth of the red-green government. It can't be particularly big to think that you've spent a lot of money on the municipalities, given the huge increase in tax revenue that Right's tax policy led to for the Red-Green Government. In addition, I have refuted a number of the numbers on which the representative Brustad Moe is here. With regard to the decline in the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list, the decline was greatest under Erna Solberg from 2004 to 2005. This is also the reason why government parties consistently use the 2004 figures and not 2005 figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e442	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e445	I record that the enthusiasm is great – they ask for a line before I say a word. That's interesting. The period 2005-2009 has been a good period for the municipal sector. I'm not going to use more words than saying that it's been a good time – just as a little comment on Bent Höie's posts. There has been a growth of 32 billion dollars in this period. It has come in the form of free revenues, in the form of earmarked funds and in the form of increased taxes. The annual real growth has been close to 3 pst. These are the actual ratios. So we can always discuss whether this is good, whether this is enough, or whether it should be more. I record that the Right believes it is enough – at least they have not suggested that it should be more. So that's where we agree. Then we can say that we might disagree on how some municipalities have prioritised. It's the local self-government that controls that part. Much of the growth has gone to the kindergarten reform, it's obvious. That's the way it has to be. It's been a bet area, and the money is going in where we decide to bet. So the municipalities claim that they have not received full compensation. It's pretty serious, and we're going to take that on -- we're both in position and opposition. If the municipalities believe that they have not received full compensation, this is something we need to go through and look at. This has been such an important and central reform that the increased costs of municipalities will be fully offset. I'm not fundamentally in disagreement with Bent Höie's description. 2006 was good. We were in a growing period. Who really caused economic growth – was it the previous government, or was it the international economic cycle? We can always discuss that. At least we were in a good growth period. It generated increased income for municipalities in 2006 — increased tax revenues that were important. 2007 was also good, 2008 was not so good, and 2009 seems to be getting pretty good. That's the situation. I think most municipalities will sign such a general description. So for the 2008 underbalance sheet, where the municipalities do not have a profit equivalent to the net operating surplus of approx. 3 pst. We should use that term. This is partly due to the large growth in 2006, and we see that it takes a few years after adjustments before costs arrive. The large growth in 2006 resulted in poor net operating performance in 2008 because the costs of the municipalities after the adaptations did not come until a few years later. It is good that we are now changing the income system of the county municipalities. We have made changes for the municipalities – we did so in 2009. Now we do the same for the county municipalities. We're changing the count time of the population, which is the basis for calculating the population benefit. We're reducing the discretionary powers. Overall, we do a corresponding cleanup on the income side of the county municipalities that we have done for the municipalities. This is important. In 2010, we will look at the cost-balancing of both municipalities and counties. It becomes an important matter, and will have consequences for the transfers to the municipalities. Let me also comment on a couple of things that are completely concrete. We're transferring the subject schools to the county councils. We did this when we dealt with the regional reform. It's important. The different counties have different activities in the case of post-secondary school provision. We know that. Some have almost no activity, while others have quite a lot of activity. Then we have clarified in our remark that when this is going to happen, one should take into account the current cost situation. It's completely unreasonable that this is put into the ordinary system. They must be given a transition so that counties with a high level of activity can continue to do so. So to the action zone in North Norway, in Finnmark. This is a problem that you should look at. Municipalities have different grants in the same action zone. Now the action zone is not established for municipal grants, but yet the municipalities feel that this is unreasonable. When the municipalities feel that it is unreasonable, they should have the will to go in and see if it is possible to clean up this, so that the municipalities of Nord-Troms that fall outside receive almost the same grants as they receive in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e471	When the committee was in Austevoll in the West, we both saw and heard about the problems of a municipality that does not have a continental connection and does not have a permanent access to neighbouring municipalities. It was a good description of their situation that emerged there. In today's criterion, there are three who are connected, but they only apply internally and do not relate to the relationship between municipalities. Why will the Government not contribute to adjusting the small municipality contribution to municipalities with more than 3000 non-residential inhabitants, and which thus have a special situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e480	It's only one year ago – barely one year ago – we changed the income system of the municipalities. We looked at the different grants, and we went through this thoroughly. It's possible that this didn't turn out to be fair on the millimeters, and that there's still some injustices. We can probably figure out a lot of injustices from what point of view you have. But we had a thorough review of the year's budget, and it'll be a little hard to get back now, half afterwards, and say that here we have an injustice that we have to clean up now. It's possible that we should look at it. I don't rule out that there may be something there, but to say it now, half a year after we did the big cleanup, I think it's difficult. But I expect that these are things that we here at the Stortinget, the Committee and the Department are constantly working on, and look at whether there are still injustices in which there is a need to clean up. But I am quite convinced that there are many injustices, depending on where you stand and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e485	The right and centre governments entered the 2006 budget to legislate on the right to user-led personal assistance for users with large, personal care and assistance needs. It was important for us, because it contributes to greater freedom in the everyday lives of the individual who needs this assistance. On questions to Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health at the time, she replied: ‘I am satisfied with the main content of the proposal outlined in the 2006 draft State Budget by the outgoing Government of Bondevik, and I intend to follow it up in a consultation note with the first.’ [[...]] So it hasn't happened, and we think it's very disappointing. How does the representative view the interaction reform as an obstacle to facilitating user-oriented practical assistance for a user who has the right to do so in any event? Or is there another argument that is burdensome? Is it that the individual user should be able to decide for himself his or her own life, which is the reason not to legislate the right to user-driven personal assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e499	With regard to the first part of the question, there was a quote from the Brustad Council, so the question of whether it is done enough, and why things are not done, if necessary, should be addressed to her in that she wrote this to which the representative referred. So that part of the question should be corrected there. In terms of user-oriented assistance, we had – if I do not remember correctly – a matter up in Stortinget a few days ago. I have such a great sense of the argument that it might make sense to legislate – I might say – but we always have a discussion in our society about this with legalization. How far are we going? Is there any limit to how far we're going to give rights? I think we should also problematize this. It is not always stated that every time we have a problem, it should be given in the form of a right, but there is a need to problematize and discuss this. That does not mean that I reject a proposal to legislate for that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e507	Four years ago when this government joined, it was said that poverty or poverty should be eliminated – there has been a discussion about that shade. But in any case, there is a great responsibility on the municipal committee to participate in this poverty reduction because we are responsible for many of the measures that can be taken against people in Norway today who are struggling with the economy. There are indications that the differences between people have increased during this period. A lot of people have got it much better, but we haven't been able to help those who are the poorest, and sometimes I've thought that it's not safe for the government to know who the poor in Norway are. Take, for example: the homeless. The number of homeless people has increased in this period, and that is something that none of us can be satisfied with. Although measures have been taken, for example: housing aid, which is positive, is targeted at those who have housing. My question is: is SV and the representative Rolf Reikvam satisfied with the efforts made for those who are the lowest on the economic ladder, i.e. the homeless?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e514	If I answered yes, I would be quite stupid. It's obvious. It's unworthy that we have people who have so low consumption in the world's richest country. I fully agree that is totally unacceptable. We shouldn't have it like that. But at least I would like to stress that there are actions in place. This with housing support remains important. After all, the increase in housing aid will only work and have consequences from July this year. It will perhaps be one of the most effective poverty measures, and regardless of whether it targets people who have housing, it is terribly important. This hits. We've done something about the rates of social assistance. We've lifted them. So I feel that there have been actions taken in accordance with what we promised before the 2005 elections. But to say that we are satisfied and satisfied, would be completely wrong in a situation where we still have people living with as low consumption as some people do in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e519	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e522	There is considerable uncertainty about the impact of the financial crisis, including in the municipal sector. Half of the municipalities experienced an operational deficit last year. 32 pst. by the municipalities they declare that they reduce the number of annual jobs in the care and care sectors, and each third municipality states that they cut in the budgets for culture and leisure. The government realized that they had over-exploited the expectations in Kommune-Norway for the current year, and it was therefore necessary to add a further DKK 1 billion to the municipalities in the revised, in addition to the tax compensation and the package of measures. It is a recognition that it was created too high expectations both in 2008 and 2009. The proposed growth in the municipal proposition will improve a municipal economy in severe imbalances. However, that is not sufficient. Many municipalities will continue to have a very tight economy in the future. The poor results of accounts in 2008, with deficits in more than half the municipalities, the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy and the expectations of the population and the state, illustrate the challenges. The Christian People's Party wants a community scheme such as: will provide greater financial freedom, increased teacher density in school and better care for the elderly. This means that transfers to the municipalities should be strengthened by approximately DKK 1 billion in addition to the government's plans for 2010. We believe that there is a need for a long-term escalation plan for the local economy. The Christian People's Party believes that the country is best served by three elected levels. However, several tasks may be transferred from the bureaucratic and state level to the county. The Christian People's Party also believes that the number of municipalities in Norway can be reduced to an advantage. But there is not necessarily any automatic in that all municipalities with a small population are most well served to merge. There are many examples of small municipalities with good welfare services and high levels of satisfaction. Local authorities have been given responsibility for several specialised and resource-intensive services. If, in the future, municipalities are to be able to discharge an equally heavy responsibility for the well-being of their inhabitants while respecting the principle of generalist municipality, some changes in the municipal structure are appropriate. The Christian People's Party believes that the voluntary line must be continued, but there is a need for stronger and positive incentives to merge. The Christian People's Party would stress that it still has to be the responsibility of the State to ensure that county municipalities are able to maintain and operate the county road network financially and that they are able to make investments that provide the basis for a safe and efficient road network that works well for both industry and the population. The Christian People's Party believes that the financial arrangements associated with the transfer of responsibility do not meet the challenges that the states are now facing. We are disappointed that the Government does not comply in such an important area, and that the counties will therefore remain responsible for a large maintenance set-up, without the necessary and sufficient state resources being made available. The Christian People's Party believes that if municipalities are to be able to invest in prevention, treatment and training, they must be given more responsibility and more resources. The government's announced interaction reform is just around the corner. The Christian People's Party believes that attempts must be made to give municipalities the responsibility for ordering and financing hospital services. This will make the municipalities responsible and provide a good incentive to achieve the aim of seamless healthcare. Lying time in the hospitals goes down. In 2008, it was 4.8 days. The limits of treatment are erased. This means that patients will largely be in municipalities. In that case, municipalities must be strengthened both economically and competently to deal with them. Interaction reform is necessary in order to provide patients with a better and more comprehensive health service. Finally, the municipal bill also mentions restrictions on alcohol law. The Social and Health Directorate and others have demonstrated that alcohol is involved in 60–70 pst. of all cases of violence. As times expand, we get more violence – and vice versa. The best way to counteract violence is to limit outings at night. Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will now introduce the tipping-off at noon. 2 at night throughout the country, an action consistent with our own proposal in Document No. 8:80 for 2008-2009 amending the Alcohol Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e551	We red-green have implemented changes in the income system, which means a higher income dissipation. An important step in this regard is that we have reduced the importance of taxation somewhat in the municipal economy in order to smooth out more. In the setting, the Right and Left say that they want the value of the tax to be increased. So they're going to go the exact opposite of what we want. I know that Tørresdal is a candidate in the Nord-Trøndelag, a state that is very dependent on income dithering. Is it so that the Christian People's Party is completely in line with us red-green when it comes to this supersampling? Where is the Christian People’s Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e558	The Christian People's Party is concerned that there should be an incentive to drive business development in municipalities, that one should serve to drive business development. On the other hand, we are very concerned that no matter where you live in the country, whether you live in the districts or in the cities, you have to have a good welfare offer. It is therefore important to balance income between municipalities. The fact that some low-tax municipalities get tax-rich municipalities is a right idea of solidarity. It is important to maintain residence throughout the country. It is very important that there is equivalent healthcare in District Norway, that you get the same quality of health care, school, etc., regardless of where you live in the country. That is why we supported the conversion of the income system when it was adopted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e565	Christian People's Party and Bjørg Tørresdal have made it a brand mark to defend the county. They want decisions to be decentralised, they want decisions from central agencies to the county council. This is linked to the fact that when we dealt with the governance reform, the regional reform, they took on the role of the great defender of regional and local democracy. It's okay. You can do that when you talk in general. But it's a little bit unclear what the Christian People's Party means when we come to concrete things. For approx. a week ago we dealt with the district message. At that time we had a very concrete proposal to strengthen the county in one area, which concerned the commercial areas. But what party was it that then jumped off and told us that this had to be centrally controlled, this had to be the responsibility of some central organisation? Yes, it was the Christian People's Party. Then I get a little insecure: is this party speaker in a nice layer, but when it comes to the political realities, does a blank in the principal positions you say you have?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e572	The Christian People's Party would like to transfer the entire task from the state to the county, including the whole tool that was involved in industrial development. We would go as far as letting Innovation Norway be decentralised to the county municipalities. If one had done so, it would be natural that the new nutrition programs had their roots in the county. Now it turned out that in the administrative reform we only got participative when it came to Innovation Norway, one got involved and owned a little, but still it was going to be national organizational board from Oslo. When one did not take the whole tool, it became artificial to say that the new business premises were to lie with the county councils and are not so close to the SIVA. That is why, in our attitude to the district notification, we have said that, like the government parties, it seems natural that the new business areas are the cooperation partner of the county council as a development actor, but that they remain related to the SIVA.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e579	The Christian People's Party often follows the Government in its comments, and vice versa, in various matters and in different policy areas. That is why I have a question for the Christian People's Party in this matter. Is the Christian People's Party more comfortable with today's government's bet on the municipalities than the previous government's with Erna Solberg as Minister of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e585	Christian People's Party is a center party. That means that we can cooperate with all parties that conduct a policy that is consistent with our policy. With regard to local economy, and with regard to the responsibilities within our committee, there is often agreement between the views of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties. This is also the case in immigration policy. But when choosing partners for full government cooperation, it is important for the Christian People's Party to participate in a government cooperation that has its origins in the centre. We've said that we can cooperate both on the left and on the right, but not on the far left and on the right. This is what our national meeting has said. In practical policy, there is an advantage to being at the centre, because then a choice can be made to cooperate where policies are put in place. And I repeat, in this period, the Christian People's Party has been at least on the level of the government parties in terms of local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e599	The left is optimistic on behalf of local democracy. A large majority in Stortinget and of the parties are to make use of the opportunities to give municipalities more tasks, more money, more responsibility and more services. In order to ensure more popular government and more decentralisation, the Left will put a roof on the state's business of about 50 pst. by the public sector and put into service the whole of Norway by allocating the other tasks to counties and municipalities. The left will have a welfare reform where municipalities can have a greater responsibility in welfare services and health services. Then we can provide treatment, care and care in the community, so that users get a better offer and increased dignity. The reform of the left is something more than an interaction reform. In addition to health, care and care tasks, the Left will create more seamless services for children and young people by strengthening the health centre, the PP service, child protection, the health care care service and the outreach youth service and looking at interactions between child and youth psychiatry in hospitals and municipalities. The left will also strengthen the ability of municipalities to help everyone to a suitable dwelling. A place to live is the basis of life and must be the starting point for habilitation and rehabilitation. Therefore, municipalities need to be strengthened by several housing social instruments. Today, only half of the municipalities have a housing social action plan. In addition, we need to get a cultural promise II with emphasis on voluntary cultural life. But there is also a need for a cultural promise in the municipalities. Only about half of the municipalities have a cultural status. The cultural sector in municipalities is characterised by many and small jobs. The left believes this has to do with both well-being and well-being. Culture therefore has a central place in the welfare reform of the Left. So to the economy of the municipal sector in 2010. The left framework for the municipal sector is about the same level as that proposed by the government, with a growth of between 5 billion and 6 billion kroner. The details of this must come back to us in the context of the 2010 state budget, but I would like to stress that the Left in its alternative proposal for the revised national budget now in 2009 has a priority of 624 million. DKK to 1000 more hospitalisation sites than proposed by the Government. We have an ambition to continue such a priority for 2010. In order to ensure that local self-government has the opportunity to shape social development, the Left considers that municipalities must have real economic freedom. It must provide for exemptions from State requirements and municipalities must be able to decide more on their own income. The left has programmed that municipalities that want it will receive all transfers from the state without designation. In addition, an increased possibility of affecting the local taxpayer, increased access for local natural resource taxation and a share of State environmental taxes on municipalities must be provided. The growth in the income of the municipal sector in recent years is real. The left recognizes it and has followed the same frame. But it's a fact that expenditure has grown even faster. Little has been done to make it more effective, and all attempts have stopped in recent years. For the municipal sector, attempts are important both to learn, compare, streamline and, where appropriate, to save. Structure is also important. In order to meet the high growth of care and care users, it is important to use the period 2010 to 2015 to shape a sustainable and forward-looking public sector. Then we both have to look at structures and apply new technology. It is difficult to see traces of a clearly digitised local government sector and forward-looking structure after recent years. The income system may be an example of the importance of structure. The left considers that government control of local communities needs to be limited. This is a responsibility that must be largely taken by Stortinget. Today, nearly 7,000 legal paragraphs regulate the municipal sector, and it increases by an average of 1.5 paragraphs per year. day(s) It's a big paradox when we know that just ten pst. of 234 municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants have a lawyer. Who interprets all these 7,000 legal paragraphs in the municipalities? In terms of legal certainty for individuals, this is dramatic. Finally, I will bring some praise to the Government. Despite the failure to comply with the regional reform of the Soria Moria Declaration, at least the Government is undertaking a task and funding reform in style. The management reform receives its financial confirmation with today's decision. Moving SEK 7.4 billion from the state to the states amounts to about 15 pst. of the 50 billion DKK moved from the counties to the state in 2002. If there is a reform, it can be discussed, but the problems and the money are at least moved in the right direction. Speaking of the way, I think the other highways will actually revitalize the states as the political arena. Roads and traffic engage, and moving these debates out of the Storting and closer to people, is a good move.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e632	We know that in Oslo, the Left ensures that the Progress Party sits with decisive power and influence in the City Council, and the Left also ensures that the Progress Party in Oslo is responsible for very important areas, such as: the transport area. At country level, the Left has stated that they want Jens rather than Jensen, so we're a little confused here. Is the Left now three months before the election still a guarantor that the Advance Party will not be in government after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e637	Yes, the Left is a guarantor that we do not go to government with the Advance Party after the election. It has several aspects to do with: money use, the environment, immigration, integration and also Sami issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e642	I would like to ask Vera Lysklätte to comment on some of the things she writes in the setting, a fundamental question. In the setting, the representative from the Left writes the following: ‘Left believes that kindergarten prices should be determined locally – based on local assumptions, offers and characteristics’. When I read this, I wonder. This is a depoliticisation, leaving a part of it to the market. Is this some kind of extreme market liberalism, or what is it? Does the Left want market offers and demand to set child care prices, or do they still want political governance? This should be clarified, because if one reads this in its worst form, it is an extreme form of market liberalism, in an area where we have decided that prices should be governed politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e649	The left believes, as the representative says, that child care prices should be decided locally. There is a local person who knows the best conditions in the municipality, and we want us to have both public and private nursery services in the municipalities. So we think it's okay that kindergarten prices are decided locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e654	In the setting, the critics include: The Left Government for failure to act in terms of efficiency improvement and for municipalities not to be adequately assisted by migration and efficiency. One goes so far as to say that the Government has actually made ‘the work harder’. What kind of efficiency measures and drag help in this way is left missing? Is it outsourced, privatized, priced or other forms of hearing disorder? Because this is a comment they have with the Right, among other things. What is missing and criticized?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e659	The previous government started systematic trials in both municipalities and counties, a total of 13 trials. Everyone was evaluated, along the way and afterwards. Everyone was described as very successful. But today's government has stopped all of these. The left considers that the public sector needs more testing and evaluation to be both better and more effective. We believe that this with the unit state, for example. is very good, because it reduces the influence of the state by moving tasks from county to the elected county. This is how the unit becomes a larger and stronger actor and becomes a better interaction actor for the municipalities. That is why we are looking forward to Mr. More and Mr. Romsdal continuing their efforts with the unit state, and we are pleased to note that several states have taken an interest in that model. The left wants the intermediate level to be organised as a unit state, so we want to welcome such attempts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e670	What is a good municipality? There's a lot of different answers to that, depending on who a question is. Maybe there are some expressions that will go on again, for example. well-being, security, belongings, trust and availability. The geography in Norway is very different. It means that we have a variety of municipalities. It also means that people can add differently to these concepts, and that they can expect something different from local authorities. In any case, a good municipality is created locally. It's the government and the Storting's job to expand the local space for action, and then it's the local populace, in close dialogue with its inhabitants, who have to make sure to use the space for action. In different contexts, the expression equivalent offer is the subject of attention both inside and outside this hall. And either we're talking about health, school or other areas, it'll be so that an equivalent offer can be different locally. It is important that we make it possible for one to take care of local variants. For the first time, the municipalities tipped over 300 billion dollars at their disposal - a more accurate figure is 310 billion dollars this year. The real growth in the income of the municipal sector from 2005 to 2009 is below 32 billion kroner, and I record that most people have now learned it. There are two important figures here: the growth is, among other things, used to put in place between 30000 and 35000 new annual works in municipalities from 2005, and to provide 38 400 new children with kindergartens. The target of 10,000 new annual works in the care sector has been met. There are several professionals in place in the municipalities. Behind these figures, there is a great deal of security hidden, both when it comes to having a safe place for your child when he is going to work, and when there is a need for safe care for an elderly person or a caregiver. The government also prioritises the municipal sector in its last budget during this major period. Surprisingly, for many, municipalities have been allocated DKK 2.5 billion during 2009. The billions will be passed on. Then, in addition, there are 4 billion new ones in free income, and there are alerts between 1 and 2 billion to other tasks. We'll get back to that in the budget. There is no doubt that there are still unresolved tasks, but with a consolidation of the economy in 2009 there will be room, in our view, in 2010 for both covering demographic costs, extra funds for other national roads that become state roads from 1 January 2010, and strengthening school, municipal child protection and a follow-up to the Health Plan 2015. The municipalities go a little different into the year 2010. It also applies to the way they deal with different issues in 2009. Many people have challenges following a weak operating result in 2008. It is easier for the municipality of Oslo to operate with an operating surplus of 3.9 pst. Because the distance to those who need services is greater. It's harder in a municipality that has tens of millions in its budget, and there one knows that the one who lives in the neighboring house, now needs strengthened care. I'm glad that a new income system with greater dithering is in place. I'm glad that we're also clearing up room for three changes in the budget of the county councils. And then we're going to get back to the extra income and expenditure equalization for them. Now it is important that we also have the management reform in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e692	I have to say that I am delighted to register a somewhat more humble representative from the Government who is today talking about local economy. I think it's important to avoid the big and crazy representations of the local economy out there, because there's a lot of local politicians struggling with the situation they're in. The rhetoric that has been led by the sitting government over several years has created an enormous crisis of expectation out there, and you can see that there is no real relationship between what has been said by the Government on the one hand and the actual situation in the municipalities on the other. I want to grasp another point, local democracy, of which the government is supposed to be very concerned. Why has this government, at many important points, contributed to the reduction of the room for action of local democracy – by pressing on Norwegian municipalities asylum recipients against their will, by pushing in property taxes, and by the Law on Planning and Buildings, making it even more difficult to exercise local land management?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e701	I think it is a rather special situation to stand here to be criticized by the Progress Party, by all, when it comes to local democracy – the Progress Party, which will thus reduce the space for action, as far as I can read in the setting, in relation to the municipal structure, which is the main theme today. How is it the Progress Party that wants the Kommune-Noreg to organise its varied services, with the lack of municipalities we have, within schools, care and other services, when they want to introduce a single price finance instead of taking care of the room of action that is today? The property tax is voluntary. The ear-marked shots shall come down; there I have understood that the step-by-step part is intended. In total, it is the Government's mission, its task and its goal to increase the local space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e708	The government's exhibition window, Trondheim, was given red-green governance in 2003, and the consequences can be read in the head of the Address Paper: «At the end of 2009, the municipality of Trondheim will have a debt of DKK 10 billion, compared to five billion in 2003. During the high economic cycle with large transfers from the state, high tax inputs and large revenues from the power plant, the use of money was not slowed down in view of worse times. Economic unreasonableness must reach the city's population. [[...]] Under the red-green regime, Trondheim has lived on for several years.» My question is whether the Council of State believes that the serious situation in Trondheim is due to the red-green local economy of the state or red-green local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e720	To me, what matters is that this question should primarily be debated locally. I understand that one side of Trondheim's 2008 result is how Trondheim has managed the location of its financial assets, and the consequences. Otherwise, the government has worked systematically to increase the local space for action and to strengthen the local authorities’ situation. 32 billion is a number, but it's just a number. What is important, and which also applies to Trondheim, is that it has been possible here to strengthen its services in the form of new annual works, more kindergartens, and to improve the quality of services in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e727	My line to the Council of State must go on the administrative reform, when we are now going to introduce it, where the Christian People's Party agrees with the steps that have gone, but would like to go so much further. But I have a question about what has been adopted on these roads, the highways, which are going to become highways, and which are somewhat worrying about funding. But leave the funding, and then we go to the administration of these new county roads. That's where I understand that it's transferred 500 million. kr to the Regional Road Administration of the State. I am a little over it, because I thought it was the county council that was to be strengthened, and not the Vegvesen regional. I wonder how it relates – or I can ask the question in another way: is there a corresponding strengthening of the administration of the county councils, or is it such that the county councils will only think of what the state road authority spends time and resources deciding?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e736	As far as I'm aware of the premise that is now taking place in the field of transportation, there's a careful dialogue here, a strengthened dialogue, to put in place the last elements, both the administration and the costs of ferry operations. There's two points there that are something undecided. So it's supposed to be a common road administration, so it doesn't build parallel plans. This means that the county must be strengthened, inter alia: with some planning tasks. Then funds have been provided, as the representative says, directly to the roads and to the loan scheme for upgrading, but it will now require a constructive dialogue between the county councils and the department, as well as between the Vegvesen and the county councils, to get the last elements well in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e743	I wonder at one thing: how does the Minister of State think that the schools should now behave in front of the next school year, in the autumn? Because now they're facing the fact that they have to cut into teaching positions this year as well. For example, every year the school in my municipality has been cutting jobs for four years. Fewer teachers cause those who remain to be worn out, sickened, poor work environment and learning environment and a lot of bullying in school. What does the Minister of State have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e750	I very much agree with the Left that the school is a crucial important area locally, and that it is important to have room for a school where the individual student is seen and followed up. It is important now, and it is important prevention, in view of the future. In spite of the fact that the Government, with the support of Stortinget, has strengthened the municipal sector during this period, many municipalities have still not been able to solve all the tasks they would like to do. There are probably some places where a teacher's cut is because one finds out that one wants to have a different school structure, but I hope once the care services have reached a higher level, that there will be more room to strengthen the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e757	We see that the government is using instruments as a piece of money to secure funds for the municipalities, while at the same time criticising the Progress Party for the same reason. We see that the county is constantly overseeing local democracy. We see that the poor local economy makes municipal politicians frustrated that they should be able to handle all these statutory tasks and make a proper priority in the municipalities. The last thing is that the government is going to introduce a national gift policy, which, in my opinion, is also overseeing the local self-government. Does the Council of State understand the frustration of local politicians? Will the Council of State be an ombudsman for local politicians and work against the negative developments we are now seeing, overrun by local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e765	I already feel like a local democracy ombudsman to strengthen the local people's regime. I have traveled so much in this country and visited so many municipalities that I do not share the description of a negative development in the local action room. It's right that we've streamed into some points. There is a difficult balance between what should be national and what should be local. But in the areas of services, which make up two-thirds of their budgets, we have strengthened the possibilities. Today, the Progress Party is making KS its 2010 proposal, but there is not as much difference there as the Progress Party will continue, for KS really wants to spend $5 billion on the action package in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e774	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e777	The community proposition we have today to deal with, joins in the range of those better in many years. The government said in 2005 that they would bet on the municipalities, and have delivered in this way. It's interesting to see what happened in Kommune-Norway in the years we've been in government. This government, together with the municipalities, has set a world record in the construction of kindergartens. There are 38 000 more children in kindergarten than when we joined. This has a lot to say for the families who have used this offer. In Vestfold, all municipalities now have full child care coverage. I want to make a statement: this would not have been possible without this government. We do not conceal that 2008 was a difficult year for Norwegian municipalities. The year-on-year cost growth was higher than expected, and many municipalities have had a significant decline in the value of financial positions due to the global financial crisis. The interest rate level was high, and all of this was directly reflected in the local accounts. Unfortunately, the financial crisis has not yet been lifted. Many municipalities are therefore likely to experience that their financial positions will not provide the returns you can expect in a normal situation. The interest rate, on the other hand, has been significantly reduced and is now at a low level. When the revised budget and the municipal proposal were presented on 15 May of this year, many were satisfied in the municipality of Norway. For example, I can draw out my own municipality of residence, Tønsberg, which is allocated approximately 27 million. D broken down by 7,8 million as additional appropriations for free revenues in 2009 and 19,7 million. as an estimate of free revenues in 2010. The councillor in Tønsberg stated to Tønsberg's magazine on 16 May that, together with lower interest rates, this may mean that we can capture the deficit in the accounts and avoid cutting off the service offer in 2010. He added that the municipality of Tønsberg can go into 2010 with a positive sign. It really matters to the municipalities and their inhabitants who governs. The fasitite after four years of red-green government speaks its clear language. The real growth of the sector’s total revenues from 2005 to 2009 is estimated at approximately DKK 32 billion. ==References== half of this has come in the form of free income. If you compare with the Bondevik II government, in their four-year period, there was a growth in total revenue of less than DKK 20 billion, while the growth in free income was SEK 8.3 billion. Part of this growth was forced through in Stortinget. The conclusion is simple. There is a sea of differences between our government and the bourgeoisly overthrown government for which the Progress Party was an active supporter. The Progress Party has on several occasions pointed out that in its alternative budgets they give more to the municipalities than to the Government. That's fine, but where do you take this money from? We know that the Progress Party promises tax relief in the billions class, they promise to lay down toll stations on a large scale – which cost tens of billions to be carried out. How much, if any, will be invested in the municipalities afterwards will be exciting to see. The Stoltenberg II government has shown for the last four years that we are betting on well-being. It is in the municipalities the welfare is created, and therefore we have raised the municipal sector in these years we have now left behind. With a still red-green government, we will continue to bet on the municipalities. Finally, I think that the municipalities and their inhabitants should have a right to know how many municipalities the Progress Party believes there is a need in Norway – if they come to power on one occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e803	I take the floor to talk a little bit about the administrative reform, starting from the point of view of transport policy. The main content of the administrative reform — a sad remnant of a fortunately stranded regional reform — is the downgrading of more than 17 000 km of highways and the transfer of 78 out of 95 national road ferries from the state to the counties. The important issue of administrative reform is the following: Does this improve roads in Norway? Does this provide better ferry services? The party of progress is convinced that the answer is a loud and clear no. The administrative reform is addressed in a number of cases, in a new national transport plan, which the Stortinget dealt with last Thursday, and in a separate law on the transfer in a separate deposit proposal from the Ministry of Transport that we dealt with yesterday. The road network we know today as other national roads is being transferred with this proposal to the county municipalities as of 2010. These roads have a maintenance run of NOK 12 billion. In order to avoid separate provisions of Section 7 of the Roads Act concerning requirements for reclassification of roads, the Government implements this downgrading by adopting a separate law on transfer, where the Government grants exemption from standard requirements for reclassification – read transfer. This doesn't give you any better roads. But it follows along with money," says the Government and government parties. So let's think about that a little bit more. For the ferries, the county councils are initially transferred in 2010 the same amount as the state itself spends on the ferries in 2009. 2009-krones converted to 2010-krones do not provide the same benefit – increases in compensation of employees and operating costs are required. To the roads – this is on page 42 of the municipal bill – it follows 4,589 million. NOK 5,126 million. Implemented in the National Transport Plan – i.e. no more, but less. So I'm going to add $1 billion to the increased free money. The new free resources will be used for the maintenance run on the roads taken over, which is NOK 12 billion. The same free means shall also be used for maintenance seats on existing county road networks – 27000 km of roads for which the counties are already responsible and for which maintenance delays range from DKK 14 to 16 billion. The measure also includes 5,800 bridges and a significant number of tunnels. Here there is a requirement for upgrading, which – according to several of the issues I have referred to – can have significant economic consequences. The same free means shall also be used to improve the holiday offer. There will be not many free trips here – with reference to the Centre Party – and the question is whether there will be an improved ferry service at all. Quite rightly, there is an annual loan framework of NOK 2 billion – loans to patch on bad roads, it almost seems like a bad joke. Unfortunately, it is carried out in full seriousness. It must be meant to be a kind of patch on the wound – a kind of political patch – because the state shifts responsibility for bad roads to the county municipalities. Bad roads won't be better if responsibility is shifted. Bad roads do not improve at all when there is no money with which to ensure adequate standards as part of the transmission project. But more bureaucracy will be. KS says – in the short version – that you need 100 new bureaucrats. For the purposes of the law on movement: «In contrast, regulations based on Paragraph 40(a) could have financial, administrative and other consequences for the municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo, depending on the tasks assigned to them. The costs of their implementation will need to be covered by the Framework Grant.’» It's problem number. 4 to be covered by the free income of 1 billion kroner. Equally worrying is the impact of more bureaucracy in the transport sector. There is not too little — rather too much — bureaucracy that characterises the planning and implementation of transport projects in Norway. There won't be any better roads of this. This is not a good reform for the county as long as we are struggling with such unnecessary management. The so-called reform is ready for new tasks — and further new ones are announced. The funding is unclear and uncertain. There will be no better roads, there will be more bureaucracy, there will be a fragmented transport policy, and there will be – are we afraid – an increasing maintenance run.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e834	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e837	Per-Willy Amundsen started his article by showing that the accounts for the last four years are not good reading. Even for progress party members who are used to spending billions, it is likely that over 30 billion more for the local government sector will have to be considered relatively much money. When there are still major challenges in the sector, it says something about how hungry the sector was after four years with a bourgeois government, where the Progress Party had influence. Per-Willy Amundsen claims that economic development will lead to major recruitment problems in local policy. Yes, with the arrangement of the Advance Party with price financing in care and care, local politicians are scarcely needed. Per-Willy Amundsen spoke for a long time and well about the Progress Party's alternative system without getting into what it's really about. Maybe it's its own Per-Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party want to tighten up? It's interesting to see how much difference there is between the pompous rhetoric from this pulpit, and how it actually is where the Progress Party has an impact. In Stjørdal in the Nord-Trøndelag, the Progress Party forms part of the majority, and they have the chair of the care committee. Stjørdal has reduced the number of years worked in care and care as one of the very few municipalities in Central Norway. The other municipalities in Central Norway are overcomplying with the objectives of new, warm hands in care and care. Stjørdal has cut in the home ministry, and the school has been cut. Stjørdal is the municipality in Norway which uses the fourth least in school per year. students in the country and there is nine months waiting time for students referred to in the PPT. Stjørdal has cut over 20 municipal posts. But there is obviously no lack of money that is the starting point. Stjørdal, with the Progress Party in the driver's seat, wants to build a culture house of 300 million. kr. It is a small contrast to how the Party of Advancement puts itself out of this pulpit. One thing is that the Progress Party says something central, but does something else locally, far worse is that there is total uncertainty as to how this field should be handled if the Right Party and the Advance Party get government power. The right has been clear that there is no wish for price financing in care, as Bent Höie confirmed in his response to my reply earlier in the debate. I'm glad. This would lead to increased bureaucracy and less local democracy. But this is one of the fanatics of the Advance Party. Confusion and chaos on the civil side is nothing new in this election campaign. But at least I think our older people deserve that fundamental things such as the financing mechanism be clarified well in advance of the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e850	I believe that local democracy has not been well conditioned by this government. The local economy has not been worse since 1991. The county council is increasingly examining local discretion, although the interpretation of the municipalities is consistent with the existing national guidelines, and is based on local policy discretionary use. This is worrying, and this should do something about it. In fact, employees at the county council act as political actors, without popular competence in some cases. The Progress Party wants to distinguish discretion and legality control, and believes that today’s county office has an unfortunate mix of these roles. The possibility of judicial review today is almost absent and not suitable to increase respect for the legal framework of the elected bodies. This does not help to strengthen local democracy, which the Government and government parties have said they want, and with which they want to do something, but we do not see results. We see the opposite. We see an overrun of the municipalities. The new thing that is coming is a national bulwark policy, which is to determine how local politicians are to deal with this. I believe that the donation times have to be determined locally, and that there is no need to be added to any guardian policy, as it seems that we are now getting. The government parties and the government council Storberget believe that the government parties know better than our rapporteurs and local politicians in the municipality. What is the best for each municipality? Yes, local politicians know that, even in terms of the policy of giving. I believe that it is the individual municipality that is best able to make these decisions. The Progress Party believes that local politicians must be best placed to find solutions for their towns and cities. What can be effective in one place can work against its purpose elsewhere. The red-green government has set a party stop until noon. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. How they've come to the conclusion that the party should end at 8 p.m. 02, I'm a little insecure, but at least that time is set. Not only do they cut in the times of giving, but they also make a strong restriction on local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e861	The last four years have been good years for the municipal sector, and it's great. The municipalities have strengthened their service provision by setting up more than 30 000 new annual works. It is a joyous development, which shows that municipalities are able to prioritise more well-being when they are able to do so economically. For the primary education sector, there has been a growth of about 5,000 new annual works. This is joyous, but primary school needs several years' work. In particular, there is a need for more teachers. From autumn onwards, municipalities have a statutory obligation to strengthen the teaching of Norwegian/Samian and mathematics for students in 1–4. steps. It is important to strengthen efforts early in order to maximise the learning outcomes and success of each student at school. In school today there are too many students who don't have enough skills in what we call basic subjects. It also has a major impact on learning in all other disciplines and is one of the main problems in high school drop-outs. It is therefore essential that the municipalities now follow up the obligation they have under the Training Act to strengthen teaching in Norwegian/Samian and math from the fall. It is set out in the budget for the purpose – NOK 1 billion in full year-on-year effect as of 2010 – and I am confident that the Council of State will follow this up in its dialogue with the municipalities, so that the change in the training law is implemented in all municipalities. I have repeatedly noticed that the Council of State is concerned about the quality of the school. We've worked a lot on the quality of school in this period. However, decisions in the Stortinget about not municipalities and county municipalities that school owners follow up do not help. An action to increase awareness of the development of quality in school is the introduction of an obligation to draw up an annual report on the state of primary and secondary education. This is fully in line with what has already been introduced as a scheme in our neighbouring countries. The state report should be linked to learning outcomes, non-responses and the learning environment. I hope that this can be a positive contribution to debate also in local government, county councils and in the boards of private schools and thus be a tool for school development locally. In the future, more teachers need to be added. Professional development is also needed for teachers in the form of continuing training. In this period, we've put in place a system for that. However, close dialogue with the school owners is also needed in this area. We have to make sure that the system we have put in place is in line with what the school owners think is right. Developing a good school is the best investment a municipality can make. My impression is that most municipalities are also concerned about it. However, with the major challenges now facing municipalities in the health and care sector, school development and the addition of more teachers can be an area of less attention. I have great confidence in the fact that, like the Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of the Municipal Council leaves school development a theme in his contact with the Municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e876	The municipalities are closest to our inhabitants. This is why the level of municipal services is also what takes people both in the city and in the countryside. Those who are most concerned with community mergers by coercion must not forget that the proximity to decisions means a lot to people. We must therefore listen to the citizens even in such important matters. It is also important that municipal services are equally well developed wherever we live, whether we live in the districts or in the cities. Norway is totally dependent on the whole country being used, that it is value creation and housing across the country. That is why it is so important that we also have good municipal services and good transport services across the country. During this magnification period, a lot of positive has happened in both of these areas. I feel quite certain that this will give a positive impact on ensuring the settlement and activity throughout the country. The debate on greater equal treatment between municipalities in the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone is still ongoing without finding a solution. I should have liked to have seen that this matter had been resolved, and I still want to work for this in the future. When the government parties take this up in a separate note, it tells me that this is something that everyone wants to get a solution to, and then in such a way that it becomes a lasting and predictable arrangement. When the opposition parties in strong order criticise the Government and the majority of the population that this has not been resolved, it comes in a strange light. Firstly, as government parties or as support parties for a government, these parties have had many opportunities to resolve this matter many years ago. Secondly, the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed the removal of the entire North Norway grant. As I can see, the Progress Party's model for financing municipalities in the future will not allow for such schemes at all. During this period, we have put in place a small municipality grant, which means a lot for a better distribution between municipalities. On the basis of the signals contained in the remark from the government parties, we will work constructively, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, to find lasting and good solutions for Nord-Troms in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e891	There is no doubt that the municipal proposition is a very versatile document. We all know that the municipal bill is crucial for all the municipalities around the country, and that it constitutes the ground plan of the opportunities for good welfare production in the district of Norway. However, in recent years — and also this time — the capital and other major cities in the country have benefited from the municipal proposition. We're gonna be proud of that. In addition to the district and regional communication, we have had the capital message. The government there and in the Soria Moria statement that ‘By and land hand in hand’ is not only an old slogan, but also action in practice in modern times. Oslo and other major cities in Norway are population and economic centres of gravity, and the development of these cities can be a driving force and an engine for the whole country. It is in the interests of the entire country that these cities become attractive regional areas. We know that the Government's Capital Message was a contribution to recognising Oslo's role in terms of competitiveness, diversity and value creation. It's incredibly important to see that there are special big-town phenomena that challenge us as the country's elected people. Drug use, crime, homelessness, an increasing number of the population with a minority background, poverty – these are just some of the very demanding tasks many of our cities face. Although the level of income in the capital is high, we know that the differences between the population are increasing and that poverty is increasing. That is why I am very pleased that the Government has done something about the housing support system. Now 50,000 new households will receive more housing support. The income limit has been raised and the requirements have been simplified. We're increasing the appropriations by 66 million. kr. And as if the housing support system were not enough, we have also been notified in the drug field about escalating plans, which will apply until 2010. Municipal action plans, individual follow-up, lowthreshold services and outpatient and outreach services mean that the drug field will be strengthened in its entirety, with more than 700 million. kr. The government has announced a legalisation of the crisis centre offer. This is very good, especially because we know that in a lot of our cities, the number of women with immigrant backgrounds using the crisis centers has increased. This requires more education, more resources and more competence. When I see the ambitions of this government and what this government has achieved in the last three to four years – that is also the municipal proposition – I am optimistic. I actually get the belief that it's useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e908	On Friday, the Government presented the interaction reform. The left is in favour of the intentions of the reform, but it seems to lack important structural grips, and there is an additional bureaucracy introduced, through a kind of fourth level of government. It will be called co-municipalities and mandatory intercommunal cooperation. We will have much more bureaucracy and more decisions outside direct elected control. We already have a large form field in welfare and health, a form field that is extremely time consuming. We fear that this will be even worse, and that even more bureaucracy will affect patients. The left agrees that an adjustment to the hospital reform from 2001 is absolutely necessary, both in the form of legislative changes and in the form of funding. This may create a better interaction between the primary and specialist services. But we're sceptical about a funding model that's definitely based on co-financing, by moving 20 pst. of the financial resources of the specialist services and of a conglomerate of intermunicipal cooperation in many versions, and provide them with an obligation to have agreements with health professionals. The fewer people want an alternative to buying the services from hospitals. The practical financial responsibility is transferred only from the state to a kind of fourth level of government, through compulsory joint municipal councils or other forms of intercommunal body. I think we have to figure out the incentives that make the municipalities see the gain. Local authorities have to get short-term gains, not only see the gains far ahead of time, because we don't think it's too much interest for this to succeed. There has been a dramatic increase in the amount of inter-municipal cooperation. In 2004, as far as I understand, we had 1,768 intercommunal enterprises. Denmark had only 200 at the same time. And we don't just have intercommunal companies, we have a lot of other cooperation bodies, and there's no one, cork KS, department or central statistical agency, who knows how many collaborations there are between municipalities. I heard about a forecast that there would be 14 inter-municipal enterprises or cooperation measures per year. municipality. In simple terms, it means more than 6,000 intercommunal cooperatives total. It's a myriad of cooperative actions that go beyond democracy. Without getting bigger and stronger municipalities, that is, without this premise in place, I believe that the cooperation reform will have at least the same layer as the scandalous Nav reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e922	I must be allowed to say that I am impressed by the glow being displayed by representatives of the government parties, when they are eager to tell how much money is spent in the municipal sector at the moment. At the same time, I am also impressed by how convenient they avoid another problem, namely the cost increases in the municipalities. For rapporteurs and local government representatives sitting around Norwegian municipalities, the number of millions are not being transferred, which is important, but how to get the budgets to go together. Now it's time that we also start focusing on the costs. The costs of this government have increased significantly. When the financial crisis is over and everyday life comes, I'm afraid it will show that over the course of these four years, we have experienced a significant decline in competitiveness compared to other countries. That's the big challenge we have, and we also have to focus on. That's why it's important for us to be able to look at how we can make things easier, and how we can make things smarter. One must focus on it also in the public sector. Then it is important that one looks at the regional branch, where we have both the county office and the elected level, i.e. the county. When that reform was introduced – it was probably in 1976 – the condition for us to have a county municipality was that the county office should gradually be built down. It hasn't happened. Both have swelled, and people don't understand how the problems are distributed. We have to have a simplification at the regional level. That's why it's very good that More and Romsdal county councils are probably currently examining an application for the continuation of the unit state trial in More and Romesdal. It's an important attempt, which it's important to carry on. I hope it can be an example of follow-up also for other states, because there is no doubt that when it works for some time, it will lead to simplification, and one will have reduced bureaucracy, so that one can deploy resources more targetedly. So finally, I'm going to register that the counties are being allocated "other highways", as it is called. What we must not forget in this connection is that there are many coastal states which have a lot of ferry transport. There is a need for the renewal of ferries. When we go into a new era of gas ferries and a new ferry fleet, we have to make sure that the ferries and ferries are up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e935	I liked it very well as a municipal politician and thought it was exciting and meaningful to have responsibility for local solutions we found at Frosta, as well as to meet them in the matter, for example. over the cash register at Coop to discuss. But beyond the years when I was a municipal politician – the same years that Erna Solberg was a municipal minister – budgetary work became more difficult and more difficult, and hopelessness grew rather than development. This was not a good feeling for a young municipal politician. That is why I need to comment on the comments made earlier in the debate. Giving higher tax rates to municipalities after large tax reliefs, which Right wants, is little to boast of. In fact, we believe that it is better not to reduce the tax burden, but to distribute it more evenly among municipalities, so that the inhabitants of tax-deprived municipalities receive equivalent services to those of the inhabitants of rich municipalities. Right there's a great need to explain the numbers that we're using to compare the periods. That's to understand when someone sees how bad they get out of this equation. In terms of the numeracy presented by the Right, they claim that we do not relate to real employment figures for the periods. To that I need to clarify: of course, we are dealing with statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau, which publishes official statistics for Norway. In addition, we have figures from the Technical Calculation Committee on hours worked and employed standard annual work. Municipalities’ own figures from KOSTRA also show that during the period 2005–08, wages and salaries actually increased by more than DKK 7 billion. Of course, it's after the growth of wages and salaries has been deducted. There is therefore no need to question the figures of the Central Statistical Office, although I understand that the Right has a great need to reject these figures. The right-hand side also claims that we don't take into account demography and the real number, for example. citizens over 80 years of age, and the need to tell them about our community initiative. I reject this because the number of places in institutions in municipalities has increased in recent years, suggesting that the number of places in institutions is keeping pace with the development per year. population over 80 years – and so on. I would therefore say that both the local democracy and the service offer have had and have far better status under Åslaug and Magnhild as municipal ministers than with Erna as the municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e946	I want to go back a little bit to the matter I raised in the line change with Per-Willy Amundsen, where I got an answer that can best be described as the language of Canaan. This is what is in the configuration from the Progress Party. I think it's important, because I assume it's a deliberate choice from the Progress Party to make it that way, because it's going to be used for something. They write the following in a note: ‘These members therefore wish to contribute around 7,5 billion. costs more to the municipalities in 2010 than the Government adds.’ – NOK 7.5 billion more than the government adds. The government says it's adding up to 5-6 billion kroner, free money 4 billion. If we count with the top government has and is positive now and chooses the top one, we have 6 billion. So 7.5 plus 6 is going to be 13.5-- so billion. It's a single calculation! Then comes a suggestion that is interesting. The proposal for the Progress Party is as follows: ‘The government’s 2010 draft government budget calls for a strengthening of the municipal sector by 7.5 billion. dollars in relation to the 2009 State budget.’.» These are two different things. This is a dramatic difference. My question is, why do they do it that way? Is it to use it in the campaign? $7.5 billion more than the government. Government 6 and Advance Party 7,5=13.5. But then we come to the proposal, and the proposal probably involves a lower framework for the municipal sector next year than the government puts up, because 7.5, as the Progress Party has in its proposal, is in relation to the 2009 government budget. We say revised for 2009, and so revised is higher. So when the Progress Party stands here and hits its chest and says they have so much more money, they probably don't have it – at least not in proposals today. But I'm sure that when we get out on the streets and fight tomorrow, they're going to quote their comment: 7.5 "more than". I call this unworthy. I don't think we should have it that way. I think we should be honest with each other and tell them what we're doing. This isn't consistent, it's not right, and out on streets and streets, it's probably going to be used in a way that makes the Progress Party look like those who have significantly more money for the municipalities in the municipal proposition than what we have, while the fact is that in the proposal for a decision they probably have less than what we're doing. Then the question is, what do they really mean? The worst thing is that I think this is actually strategically conscious on the part of the Progress Party, that it is not just a slip, a slip of the pen, but that it is strategically conscious, and if it is, this is not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e978	Next speaker: Per Willy Guttormsen, no – Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e981	Thank you! I promise I won't stand on skates. To the last one, it's a little bit special when SV tries to make a very big point of a fairly simple calculation. It is therefore the case that the Progress Party is basing itself on the State budget for 2009 and is adding DKK 7.5 billion to it. That is what is right, and it is also clear from the proposal. So the government has calculated this differently. The government has, among other things: starting from the action package, RNB, etc. The point here – it is also evident from the comments – is the sum total that the difference between the arrangement of the Advance Party and the arrangement of the Government is between DKK 2.2 billion and DKK 2.5 billion. That's the correct number. So I would draw attention to a number of accusations that were made here by the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande of the Workers' Party, who are trying to simmer into a bunch of price finance and, as well, to present it as if it were to deprive local democracy of its governing right. For the Progress Party, it is very important to take care of local democracy. That is why we want municipalities to have far more opportunity to make final decisions on matters involving the law on planning and building, alcohol law and property taxes. Today, de facto municipalities through the State are being pressured to impose their property taxes on their inhabitants if they want beauty resources from the State, because, as it is called, they are taking advantage of their income potential. Another example that I like to use, because it can mean a lot in a small municipality, is that you have experienced being charged with asylum reception, without the municipality actually having any participation. These are important conditions which mean something in terms of designing policies locally and governing individual municipalities. The local democracy is not about, which is what the Workers' Party is trying to present as, is the choice between cutting older people's care and finishing community schools, because the choice, which is referred to here as such as the important principle of local democracy, is now being lost by price financing. Of course, that's how we're going to have an equivalent offer in all municipalities. It is then necessary to ensure equal funding for the basic welfare services, and then things are decided and managed locally. We have equivalent offers at the bottom, and then it's up to the local government itself where they're going to build hospitals, how they're going to design this, what structure they want, etc. The only way to finance the price is to guarantee the financing of nursing homes and the placement of individual pupils in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e996	There have been some numbers in the debate. I'm just referring to Anna Ceselie Brustad Moes posts. There's nothing in that post that refuted our comparisons, where one assumes not only amounts, but also demography. In order not to dispute each of our figures, we can use our common denominator, namely the first remark made by the rapporteur in the vote: ‘The Committee points out that the municipal sector manages a large proportion of the Community’s resources and is an important employer, authority operator, social developer and service provider. The income of the local government sector is about 17 pst. of the gross domestic product of mainland Norway, and the sector stands at the base of 15 pst. hours worked in the country. According to the proposition, these proportions have been stable for the last 7 years». That committee comment, I think, sums up the debate on the numbers. So the question is, why is someone here trying to create a picture of a big difference in local economy? Of course, it's because one in the election campaign wants to create the impression that the municipal sector will have a worse economy with a government based on the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party. In this setting, there is no basis for it, on the contrary. If one looks at these parties' municipal economy for 2010, the Right and Left have the same framework as the Government, while the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have a higher framework than the red-green parties. If one considers this position, a civil majority would give a probability of a better local economy than a red-green majority. A comment on the discussion around the other national roads: this is part of the administrative reform that, in turn, does not have real content. Governance, money, resources and employees remain at the hands of the state, while the county councils now get the job of being a complaint wall for those who are dissatisfied with other national roads. The state councils can hide behind the states, while the state does not actually sit on either the instruments or the economy to remedy the situation. To the last problem, the situation of the municipalities of Nord-Troms. This is the last chance government parties have to deal with that situation during this magnification period. The Nordlys newspaper has fixed the lead position on 27 May that the red-greens now have a last chance to support non-discrimination: ‘If the red-green no, they may just as well cancel the election campaign in Nord-Troms.’ My clear call is: vote for proposal No. 1 in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1019	It is amazing that after four years in the Municipal Committee, the members of the Committee are unable to fully understand what the Progress Party believes when talking about a price-funded local economy. We cannot fully understand what they mean when they say that it is to be paid for what it costs. Yeah, how? is my question. I have tried to understand to the best of my ability what the Progress Party means. I will begin my conclusion by saying that I would encourage the Advance Party to present a plan of how they intend to finance Kommune-Norge before they start the election campaign in the autumn. They're talking about a different arrangement, but when I challenge them if the price is going to be different from the geography and the housing, they say we have experience figures, we have KOSTRA numbers. Yes, sir. What does the COSTRA show? They show that poor municipalities have spent little on their students and rich municipalities have spent a lot. If one is to base it on a price-funded system, it is to continue low student payments in poor municipalities and higher in rich, etc. If one is not to be based on KOSTRA experience figures, it must be based on other types of experience. For example, many municipalities are struggling with the school structure, especially municipalities that have a decline in the population. They have to decide whether to drop schools at next year's budget, because the number of students is falling. The KOSTRA figures become useless, but the structure can be used to a large extent, and then a kind of apply to the state to get money for maintenance. Is that how the Progress Party has thought? Or are you going to draw up rules on how many students there must be in a school circle to get a piece of price-funded school in that area? I am unable to understand how unit-price financing will solve the challenges for municipalities, for example. in the case of the school structure of district municipalities where the number of pupils falls. There will be no time for the Progress Party to respond to this in this debate, but I repeat that they must explain this to the Norwegian people. They say they're going to have different prices for the municipalities, without saying how they're going to calculate it. They say that they should build on experience without saying how to build on experience. We wonder if they intend to build a state bureaucracy where the municipalities have to apply to the state for money for the various municipal tasks. In any case, it is difficult to understand, and this debate has not provided an answer to how price financing is to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1028	I'll start north, in the North Drums. First, I note that the opposition has been relatively concrete in that it should be non-discrimination, but I cannot quite see how they intend to cover the costs. There is a cost of approx. Eighty million. kr. It's a significant cost. One way to do it is to start at a slightly lower level when it comes to finding a solution. It's in the nature of the matter that we, who have the majority, want to have some order of money before we say how to do it. But when we say what we're saying in our remark, that we're going to go into this -- and I said in my first post here that we're going to spend the time well ahead of the state budget -- we've actually gone a long way in saying that we're going to find some solution that at least to some extent takes this into account. It also states that we don't think it's entirely reasonable to continue just as we do right now. In terms of gross domestic product, we write that the proportion of the local government sector is stable, but in the economic situation there has been strong general growth, and it has to be taken into account when assessing that one is on the same share. It only shows that the local government sector has definitely followed developments and provided a framework that has made it possible. As far as tax equalisation is concerned, I would like to repeat again, because I think it is important that attention be paid, that the Right and Left – I do not know exactly where the Progress Party is wondering on the ground in relation to this issue – is strongly concerned that the tax should count more. It means big differences, even greater differences between Norwegian municipalities. I think that's bad; we should go the other way, and we've taken some steps in relation to it. I would like to remind you again of this, because I think it is a little unreasonable compared to the fact that we want equivalent offers throughout the country. So it was Leif Helge Kongshaug, who said we didn't focus on costs. No, maybe we haven't talked so much about this today, but there are people who really focus on the cost side, Norwegian municipalities, local politicians and administration, and those who stand on the floor in everyday life doing everything they can every day to get the most out of the framework that is possible. I don't want it to be unexplained. It is really working to keep costs down, and it is doing a lot of smart in Norwegian municipalities. We have a local government sector that is up-to-date in terms of efficiency. Otherwise, it might indicate that we are going to meet a little bit brighter times now, with the budget line we have, with lower interest rates and prospects for less losses on financial positions. It means at least TBU, and it was before the municipal proposition came.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1039	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1042	I'm sorry that I'm stressing this point, but it has something to do with honesty, and honesty I think we should hold to claim, also here in this room. When I stress this, it's because they say NOK 7.5 billion in addition to the government's proposal, but I have now more or less confirmed that that's not what they think. Now it was said NOK 2.5 billion in this post, as a small comment. I think they should say that this is wrong, what it says here, that the text is not right, because it has something to do with honesty to us other people who are trying to be honest with what we're writing. Then it was the proposal itself, NOK 7.5 billion in addition to the state budget. We write the following, and it's important: «The government provides for a real growth in the total income of the local government sector between 5 and 6 billion. kroner in 2010. Growth is calculated from the estimated revenue level of the 2009 Revised National Budget.» And then we know that the level of revenue has risen from the state budget to the revision. So the difference between NOK 7.5 billion and NOK 6 billion, or perhaps between NOK 7.5 billion and NOK 5 billion, is not that big. We probably have pretty similar frames if we start calculating this. What I'm trying to get is honesty. At least it should be consistent, there must be consistency between text and proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1056	It's great with a debate where there's so much commitment that municipalities should have the opportunity to carry out their important tasks. Let me acknowledge a few themes from the debate. When it applies to Nord-Troms, it is such that the government has not intended to leave either tomorrow or Friday. This means that in our preparation of the 2010 state budget, we will follow the comment in the vote. We know, from the point of view of the other representatives, that there is a broad desire for a change there. To the county councils: In terms of road and administration, there is a constructive dialogue between the Ministry of Transport and the county councils, KS is also involved, to land the practical there in the best possible way. To the number: Yes, I even believe the Right sees that it is at least wrong to compare the Right's last three years with the Government's first three years. To the Progress Party: If the Progress Party for next year spends NOK 7.5 billion on the agreed state budget, it means that the Progress Party will take the measure of perhaps DKK 1 billion below what the Government announced next year. So Bent Höie sums up that here it's reasonable equal frames, and at least between the Right and the Government Party. That's to say, yes, it looks like this from the setting, but what's important to note for Kommune-Noreg is that there's a big difference in the distribution of these, because right after I understand it, the corporation tax will be reintroduced again, which took special care of 33 municipalities, and they also want more of the tax revenue to be kept locally. It means less soothing than the new income system has now begun. Expectations — Who Creates Expectations? I think it's reasonably evenly distributed between different parties and locally and centrally. It has e.g. since the last collapse option is a local option. I think I've registered certain expectations in some local election programs, certain promises in relation to which tasks should be resolved locally. Then the point is to provide for local action spaces, not to do as the Progress Party, with unit-price financing and mass-enhanced bureaucracy in relation to it, but an increase in free revenues. And that's what the Government now says: the municipalities don't solve all the tasks in 2010, but there is room for a strengthening when it comes to demography, care 2015, child protection and schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1076	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1079	I feel the need to clarify the difference between the economic structure of the Advance Party and what the Government has for the municipalities in 2010, because it obviously has some doubts. Let's put aside all the doubts: the 2010 proposals and arrangements of the Progress Party mean an increase in relation to the government's 2010 budget with a location between DKK 2.2 billion and DKK 2.5 billion. That's the correct number. The disagreement, or misunderstanding, that may have arisen, has a background on whether or not to rely on the package of measures, i.e. after the introduction of the package of measures. We base the package of measures, like KS, as they want, and add NOK 7.5 billion to it. It means sum total that we have a setup where we want a place between 2.2 and 2.5 billion kroner in addition to the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1086	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1089	I'll be allowed to quote from the setting. It says the following: ‘These members’ – i.e. the Progress Party – ‘want to contribute around 7.5 billion. costs more to the municipalities in 2010 than the Government adds.’ Rolf Rekvam is right. That's NOK 7.5 billion more in 2010 than the government adds up to. There's no doubt about what we're talking about. We're talking about 2010, and then that's not a big difference with the arrangement we have. So selling this as $7.5 billion of fresh dollars, as it says here in the text, is going to be the mildest thing to count for relatively free! Sigvald Uppøen Hansen had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1103	I share the Tore Hagebakken's assessment that there is a shift between what was said in the setting, followed up here in the room of the Progress Party, and the conclusion that they are now performing. Then it's like a liability to also make sense of what's behind KS's numbers, that the 7.5 billion they asked for was based on an accounting survey by KS. So what was their point was a strengthening of the free income of $6 billion to come up with a net operating surplus of 3 pst. And then there was the demographic development: several children in kindergartens and schools, several older nurses – an additional cost of SEK 1.5 billion. Later, KS has made a positive statement both to the municipal budget for 2010 and not least to the billion now in the revised budget. I think we can keep talking about numbers, but what's going to be the big question out in Kommune-Noreg is, what's behind these numbers? What really is the Progress Party when they say, on the one hand, that they will now strengthen the local government sector with some figures that are a little loosely flowing through the debate, while what they really want is to introduce a single price finance? Either in Austevoll, in Trondheim or in Tvedestrand – to take three freely chosen municipalities – one does not know what to stick to, because the local authorities are very different. If one is going to turn the free revenues into a single price finance, there can be no doubt that there will be a need for a nine-time system, for the first to calculate what each individual will receive, and for the second to look at who will take the variants that may come from day to day in Kommune-Noreg. There may be an older person who needs a different arrangement for three days than he did on the day on which the Progress Party calculates how much each one would get. Then it will be with respect to report completely absurd to criticise the Government for a scheme in which there are statesmen who consider what we call justice in this country, and go to court against it, as one has done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1114	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3884]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1131	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3886]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1148	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President proposes that there be given the opportunity to reply to three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1157	It is common for the number of asylum seekers to fluctuate from year to year. This, of course, is challenging because it is a matter of having good reception arrangements and effective procedures at all times. With great variation over a short period of time, we get extra challenges. The background for this document no. The 8 proposal is that we have had an increase in the number of asylum arrivals to Norway in the last year. The problem is not many applicants, but for many of them there is no need for protection. There was also a background for the government to launch mitigation measures last autumn. So far, the figures indicate that the government succeeds in bringing down the number of asylum seekers who do not need protection. In my view and in the view of the majority, measures to reduce the number of asylum seekers should be aimed primarily at speeding up the clearance of applications and the enforcement of decisions. If you succeed in these two areas, it will send out clear signals to the outside world, which will also reduce the number of arrivals. There are a number of measures in place to speed up the clarification of applications. An innovation, the so-called Torshov project, has provided positive experience, and experience will be used to improve the efficiency of the processing of applications from other groups. It is also very worrying that so many applicants do not contribute to clarifying their identity. There is currently an ongoing investigation here, and it is always important to find measures that motivate people to help clarify their ID. This will significantly reduce the length of the procedure. When it comes to implementing decisions, it is crucial that we constantly look for measures and that we see the different measures in the context. Too many people with rejection remain in Norway, and many disappear for Norwegian authorities. This is a problem for the vast majority of European countries, and I would like to make it clear that the Government has already done a great deal to work with, among other things. to have more than one return agreement. The Committee was recently visited in France and presented the same problem there. It does not help with the world's fastest clearance, nor with any detention scheme, if – in any case – we never get those who have been rejected out. It is therefore clear that the countries of origin must be aware of their responsibilities in accepting their own citizens. Of course, the individual has a responsibility to respect the refusal and even to return home, but it is also important that the authorities have the opportunity to carry out forced returns, as we see that too few travel voluntarily. Then withdrawal agreements are absolutely essential. In this work, it is important to use a comprehensive set of instruments that can stimulate countries of origin to accept their citizens. First of all, this can be about the construction of infrastructure and assistance for reintegration for individuals. Education, employment and housing are also elements used and assessed. I also believe that European countries can do more together in this area. The measures seem much better if they are coordinated than if each country should try to obtain return agreements. The Committee also calls on the Government to take a European initiative in order to bring about a coordinated spectrum of measures, both in relation to those countries which cooperate in receiving their citizens and to those countries which choose not to cooperate. A majority of the Committee considers that there is also a need for a comprehensive and consistent return policy in Norway. Although an increase in the number of asylum seekers leads to a high level of administrative pressure, it is important to be sober. We can't panic for that reason. It is important to be clear that we must continue to comply with our international obligations, and that the measures we are implementing must not lead to the risk of sending out people who actually have a need for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1178	Norwegian asylum policy is completely out of control. It is not said by the Progress Party alone, but it is a fact – if one is to believe in the international statistics available worldwide. We have a situation where in 2008 Norway was the country in the world that received most asylum seekers compared to the population. 2008 was in many ways a record year, but despite the 13 so-called tightening measures launched by the Government last September, the influx of asylum still appears to be increasing — at least if we are to base the statistics for the first few months of the year. This shows that this government does not at all have the solution to a manageable asylum policy. Very many of those who come and seek asylum have groundless applications, and they do not need any protection at all, at least not after the refugee convention, and despite Norway's very liberal position on how to interpret the concept of refugee. It seems obvious that this government is ready to be replaced, if you want to get cleaned up in Norwegian asylum policy. In spite of this, it is a bit of a pleasure to read that Document No. The 8th proposal under consideration today. There are very many good suggestions there, and the Progress Party is behind most people. We share many of the views expressed in the proposal from the Right. Still, this is a little bit special. I would particularly like to draw attention to what is going on to see the link between assistance on the one hand and the return of groundless asylum seekers on the other. It's great that you're now moving towards doing this more. But it is no more than just two years since the Advance Party was skin-stained when we launched the very same proposal in connection with the treatment of the new Foreign Affairs Act in Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006-2007. Now there's been a common policy for more people. That's good. It's a step in the right direction. I also record that this is part of the general debate on immigration and integration. In the last few months – not to say the last few weeks – we have seen that many parties, especially the large ones, are gradually beginning to adopt the proposals of the Progress Party for immigration and integration policies, which in themselves are not new. But it's beginning to happen at a much greater rate than before. We are pleased about that in the Progress Party, of course, but we hope that when you are more in favour of good progress party proposals, also in the next round follow-up through real politics, and that these are not just rhetorical points or rhetorical exercises that you are doing in front of the election struggle. In that case, it will be very sad. In any case, I would hope and believe that there is a real will to make absolutely fundamental and necessary movements of Norwegian immigration and integration policies, especially when we talk about asylum policy. On that basis, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1195	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1198	During the last year, the Right has promoted three comprehensive representative proposals for an alternative policy on asylum, immigration and integration. First, we promoted a comprehensive approach to tackling the situation in the summer of 2008, with an excessive influx of groundless asylum seekers. Then we promoted a proposal for 23 concrete new proposals in the field of better integration policy. And then, in this proposal, we have put forward proposals for a comprehensive, comprehensive, new broadcasting policy. This last proposal is based on the situation that we have between 18 000 and up to 30000 people who are residing illegally in Norway and who should have been sent out. With the high influx we've had in recent years, of course, the number will increase as applicants are refused and not transported out. There is a need to pool responsibility for broadcasting policy and to have a common policy in this area. In many ways, this has been absent in the political discussion, because everyone has said that this is the task of the police, and then one has not discussed this further. We are therefore concerned with, among other things. to look at the experience gained in France by bringing together this area of authority — the economy and the instruments in this area — in one place. Today, this is spread between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are therefore pleased that a majority of the committee, consisting of two government parties, says that there is a need for a more comprehensive broadcasting policy, and we hope that the Council of State will also be able to confirm later that the Government will continue to work on this. We are also pleased that we have received the agreement of a majority, with the exception of one of the government parties, to assess the use of aid to a greater extent in order to establish return agreements. We are surprised that the government parties and the state councils continue to brag unhindered by the Torshov project, which has in fact crumbled up, by the fact that the police alienation unit has withdrawn from the project and no longer concentrates on dealing with cases where people with great likelihood will be refused. We are afraid that the torshov project will crumble, will make the work of working in that direction – which I think is quite right – more difficult. It is also proof to us that there is no pressure on this from the Ministry of Justice, because this is not the main focus of the Ministry of Justice, they believe this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion, which is not. It confirms the need for the measures in question. While the Committee was dealing with this matter, the so-called Taliban cases were also raised by a number of appeals in the evening post. Three of the proposals in the vote relate to it. One proposal is to give an instructional authority to UNE, similar to what it has to UDI in terms of principle, so that political governance and UNE's decisions can be restored. This proposal has been endorsed by the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, but I am disappointed that the government parties cannot participate in this. The next proposal is linked to the fact that these cases have revealed that at least at best there is an uncertainty about the extent to which one has good enough procedures to follow up statements that imply that persons have clearly committed crimes, where Norway has international obligations to prosecute, and the procedures for doing so are in the UDI and UNE. Unfortunately, this proposal is also being voted down. The third proposal is to change the UDI practice in describing the relationship with the Taliban as a relationship to be included in the positive weight scale when assessing the basis and need for protection. Unfortunately, this proposal has only the support of the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left. All of these three proposals we believe will be a completely necessary follow-up to these issues and several issues we have seen this spring. I'm afraid that if nothing is done about this now, we will get into a very difficult situation, not least it will undermine the people's confidence that the institution of asylum is what it should be, which is a basis for protecting people who need our protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1219	Let me make it clear in the beginning that everyone thinks that you have received a rejection of an application, so you have to get out. That is not the issue, we all agree on that. The question is what methods we are willing to use to do this. I understand Per-Willy Amundsen, who praises the Right and also wishes them more or less welcome after, because most of this is a proposal that the Progress Party has had in the past. So the fact that they now feel that they have received support from the Right must be nice. I also look forward with horror to an election campaign where the competition for being the most restrictive is the one that is most marked by the release of minorities and asylum-seekers, which is what will appear in many ways. I think that would be a little worth our democracy. I am responding to several of the proposals, and I am responding to the right promoting them. We who have a certain relationship with the old value conservative Right, think this is strange, at least many of us experience it as strange. Here we see a Right going in the direction of the Progress Party. It is proposed that assistance funds should be assessed against land in order to establish return agreements. If you don't get to agreements or get to something, aid can probably be withdrawn or reduced – that's what's in it, I guess, that's what's behind this. This can't be worth it. After all, we have a foreign minister who has previously rejected this and said that it is not appropriate to use aid in this way than to think. This is to set the smith's back. If we have a country that is struggling to accept people who have fled for various reasons, and are unable to establish an agreement with us, we should say: OK, then we'll get out of the aid, then you'll get less assistance. This is a pressure and a way to act internationally that, in my opinion, will be unworthy of us. I also respond to a number of other proposals, for example. this with the use of custody. If an asylum seeker commits a criminal act, the use of custody shall be considered. What is the basic principle of Norwegian criminal law is that you should be judged for your actions. It has something to do with the state of law, it has something to do with entire privacy, it has something to do with non-discrimination. It is clear that criminals, regardless of whether they are asylum seekers or what they are, must be punished. However, the fact that this should also lead to a penalty in relation to the asylum application is in many ways to say: you should receive a penalty, but in addition you should also be punished in another area. This goes on privacy, this goes on the rights of people. Repeated criminal acts committed by an asylum seeker must therefore have consequences for the outcome of the application. Of course, we do not want criminal asylum seekers, that is not our point. But we get to stick to a basic principle: people are to be treated equally within Norwegian criminal law and are to receive the punishment they are to receive under the act they have committed, whether they are asylum seekers or they are otherwise. We have to stick to that principle. We must not in addition add other things, such as that this can have consequences for that and that. It's going to be all wrong. This applies to the fundamental rights of all of us, including those who come to Norway and apply for asylum. Finally, let me comment on the proposal that goes on the MUFs. I am very pleased that we have come a step further than the large group, that it is now at the hearing, or coming out at the hearing, a proposal for a new regulation, and that they are now receiving treatment in the same way as others, a treatment in relation to the general rules. Many of them have now lived in Norway for almost ten years, and according to the general rules in force, which are laid down in the law and which are contained in the regulations, the importance of the rich is to be emphasised. It will now apply to the new treatment of this group. I expect that they will then receive a fair treatment, a fair treatment, in the same way as everyone else, and that they will be treated in relation to the general rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1238	While we are having a debate in Stortinget on measures to reduce the influx and increased deployment of groundless asylum seekers, World Refugee Week is being highlighted worldwide. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees – UNHCR – and their supporters put this week’s spotlight on the courage and stamina of millions of people who are forced to flee their homes because of war, conflict and persecution. The reason is also used to disseminate knowledge and understanding about refugees and other displaced persons. In times when we are mostly discussing tightening up our asylum policy and how to get people out as effectively as possible, it may be nice to be reminded of the world in which we live. Yesterday, the Refugee Aid presented the 2008 refugee accounts. The accounts show that a little over 41 million people are fleeing the world at the beginning of 2009. Somalia is one of the countries with the highest growth in the number of internal refugees compared to population during 2008. Today is 13 pst. of the population of refugees in their own country. In addition, over half a million Somalis have fled the country, many of them to overcrowded refugee camps in Kenya. Some of them have come to Norway. In Somalia, the humanitarian situation has steadily worsened in the last year. More than seven million people were driven away only in 2008. As the proposers point out in their Document No. Eight proposals: currently 15 000 of them, plus/minus, are on the way to Norway. Currently, according to UDI, it is 50 pst. of those in need of protection. Yes, I am aware that it is the other 50 pst, i.e. those who do not need protection, which is the theme of this setting. But in our eagerness to get these out of the country, I'm afraid we're introducing measures that affect people who need protection. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Party of Progress, the Right and the Centre, are in favour of general assistance being used as a means of pressuring in negotiations on return agreements. For me, this is a ghastly example of how far you are willing to go, and it is a clear example of being willing to put in place measures that will hit the poorest in this world. I record that SV does not share the rest of the government coalition's views on this matter. The Christian People's Party believes that failure to provide general assistance is the wrong way to achieve the goal of getting the country of dispatch to accept its own citizens. The Christian People's Party shares Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre's view on this matter, which he prepared in the Questionnaire on 18 March this year. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was asked by the undersigned whether he agreed with the Arild Stokkan-Grande's statements in the daily newspaper on 17 March 2009 that ‘we need to assess whether countries which are not willing to accept their own nationals should lose their aid or other assistance from Norway’. To the Minister for Foreign Affairs: "But I don't agree with that play, and I've made it very clear,... because I think it's an unmanageable signal and a bad tool to achieve the goal. The whole problem of return is a very complex matter that we have to work on to involve countries in respecting their international obligations. Often, the help we give to this type of country — many of them under the failed state category, that there are no authorities there — often goes to help those groups that don’t get any kind of help, and it wouldn’t be useful to break it off as an instrument.’ It is with great disappointment that I find that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not reached through with his view into the Offices of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. It's sad. With regard to the Christian People's Party's position on the individual proposals, I refer to the vote, which clearly shows which proposals we support. Finally, it is with amazement and some disappointment that I note that the Left has turned around in the view of custody. The Christian People's Party will stand on the principle on which we have always stood: not prison without judgment. It's a shame that one here in his eagerness to throw people out of the country throw at the boat basic principles like parties that the Left has always stood up for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1265	The centre party believes it is important to maintain a strong focus on actions that could lead to faster clarification of asylum applications and the effectiveness of refusals. More efficient returns for those who are refused are important in order to ensure trust in the institution of asylum and to prevent the unnecessary arrival of many groundless asylum seekers. If many persons with a permanent refusal stay in Norway for a longer period of time despite the lack of protection, this will help to weaken their confidence in the institution of asylum. It also contributes to longer processing times for asylum seekers who have a real need for protection. Going into an uncertain situation for a longer time after a refusal rather than returning to the country of origin is also not a good situation for those involved. The Central Party is therefore pleased that the Government has followed up its intentions to conclude return agreements with several countries. This work must continue independently of fluctuations in asylum flows. Of course, it is particularly important now that the number of asylum seekers is high. The centre party opens up to assess a broad range of instruments in negotiations to conclude readmission agreements with several countries. However, the Central Party believes that voluntary return is preferable, including for asylum seekers themselves, and believes that the work on obtaining such returns needs to be continued and further strengthened in the future. We are also pleased that the Government has focused on other measures to limit the influx of asylum seekers without a need for protection. Such measures must be combined with measures to ensure that asylum applications are dealt with more quickly. The latter is an important element for the rapid implementation of rejection, but it is not least important for the asylum seekers who have actually been persecuted. They need to be treated more effectively so that they can start a new life in Norway as soon as possible, learn the language and be integrated into the Norwegian community. However, I think it is important to stress that much of the increased asylum influx in the last year has been from countries where many have a real need for protection. In a heated immigration debate, it is easy to cut everyone over one comb, and forget about the international and moral duty we have to protect and help refugees who come to Norway. Real refugees make up a large proportion of those seeking asylum in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1280	For the left, the proposals that we are making today, including the proposal that I myself will finally make – I will come back to it – must be seen in the context of our wanting the asylum institution to stand there and not be abused by anyone. We should not be in a situation where we are weak in government, so that ordinary, normal criminal law and other instruments are not used. This is how I see the intentions of the proposers. I know that the Progress Party for a moment had a vision of putting everyone behind some fence. I perceive both the Right description and thinking in the document and the Left vote for, in order to be quite far away from that type of thinking. The back cover of the Left is the following: we believe that we need a harsh asylum policy. We mean, for example: That we're going to have a love visa that makes those who want to find a partner here get a chance. We need clear rules of the game around it. We believe that we need to increase the number of quota refugees. But: We also believe that the law should apply to everyone, so that if you are an asylum seeker and commit criminal acts, it must have consequences. Let me draw a historical cut. I was one of those who was on the board of the NOAS when the NOAS was started 25 years ago. At that time we had virtually no one – I can't believe we had any – asylum seekers who were perceived as criminals. Everyone agreed. Then there has been a change in social development – unfortunately. But I still remember NOAS instituting Annette Thommessen's words at the time, 20–25 years ago: if they abuse their trust, they're going out! It was her Norwegian-French, but clear speech when it came to moral principles. She did not think that they would be thrown out without law and judgment, but it should have consequences. What I now see in the proposal that we are voting for is that we want the criminal instruments we have against people who commit criminal acts to be used. If you are to be an asylum seeker who commits a series of criminal acts while your application is being processed, you should not be disregarded because it may need to be a guard queue or accomplice queue or whatever it may be. Then you're going to be treated criminally on that basis. After the killing of Anoshe outside the Staircase in Kristiansund in 2002, we received a treatment – which later received broad support – that lowered the expulsion requirement for the perpetrator of violence. Later, we have had media reports that this institute and the instruments that were then introduced have been used to a small extent. This is undermining respect for the asylum institute. As a result, those individuals who abuse trust while being treated under their own circumstances undermine the trust that all those who do not abuse trust must have. That's the way we have to clean up, so that the administration is real. In the case of return, it is important that it is optimal. It's argued very well for this right here. Then we get to hope that the conflict in the police will be settled, because there is no doubt that the conflict that is now between the authorities and the police will lead to slow action that makes it really difficult to send out people who are all agreed to be sent out. The left does not agree with proposals to link aid policy and asylum policy. We deeply disagree with such thinking. It concerns the proposals Nos. 11 to 15 submitted here. We can't say it in a clearer and clearer way than Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre: we don't want to set up a smith in any way. That is why the Left is voting for the proposal No. 1–10 in the way I have now expressed, and with the legal liberal interpretation that is common to parties like the Left and the proposal maker Right in terms of the term ‘contention’. We want criminal law and criminal law to be used. Then there's a fact that there's a lot of people who come here and don't have the right identity. It is possible to get to Norway like this, but when you get here, you have to cooperate with the authorities. It is my opinion that in order to get the best possible treatment of these, it would be beneficial to have a central unit. It's also my opinion, based on past experiences in my life, that it would have been an advantage if you had added such a unit to the police. That is why the Left in the revised national budget has proposed money, and we have also made a proposal in this case, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up its own national identity and documentation unit to determine the identity of asylum seekers who come without identity papers.’ I address this proposal, but I would like to stress that there is a way to ensure that there is no waste of time in administration. One of the things that's often frustrated me as a politician is that we all agree on the principles, but then it's the way we've organized ourselves, losing time, which most people agree we shouldn't. So at the end, I see that it's still going to be that an individual is an individual who is being assessed according to normal criminal law and all other conditions. And we could say in the popular way, that if you're a bastard, you're a bastard, completely independent of skin color and background. That's how we have to look at it. We're not going to think communist or collective. From the left's point of view, if you are an asylum seeker and commit a series of criminal acts, you must be treated like any other criminal in Norway. You can't go free because you're an asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1307	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1311	The number of asylum seekers to Norway has increased significantly in recent years. This year, the increase has been particularly high from countries such as Afghanistan, Eritrea and Somalia. Together with stateless people, applicants from these countries account for about half of all asylum seekers so far this year. In addition, there has recently been a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers who claim to be lone minor asylum seekers. At the same time, there has been a clear decrease in the number of asylum seekers from countries such as Iraq and Russia. To meet the challenges we are now facing, the Government has taken several measures. The first were launched in May and September last year. Some measures were taken last autumn, while the last ones are implemented in spring and as late as this week. The size is briefed on the status of 13 measures through the revised national budget. These measures have been effective, but it is not possible to measure the effect in a certain number of persons. We saw that the trend of increase month by month in the period May to August last year was broken in September. Had the measures not been launched, I'm afraid the monthly figures had continued to increase, and there would have been even more asylum seekers. For some groups, the number has decreased significantly, in particular for asylum seekers without a need for protection. I would like to highlight in particular the so-called Torshov project, which is believed to have contributed to a significant reduction in the number of Iraqi asylum seekers to Norway. For the measures taken relatively recently, we will only see the impact in the future. In the case of single minor asylum seekers, the Government has recently adopted a number of new measures to reduce the number of applicants without a need for protection. Single minor asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age without proper care in the home Member State may be granted temporary and limited authorisation after an individual assessment if they do not fulfil the conditions for protection or residence on a humanitarian basis. The Ministry will instruct the UDI to assess on a case-by-case basis whether the overall care situation of children in the home country is sound, including in the case of parents, in the family, in any other appropriate care provision. The Government will also engage in dialogue with the authorities of the main countries of origin with a view to contributing to the satisfactory provision of care in the country of origin of asylum seekers. As the pattern of arrival changes over time, there is a constant need to assess measures in relation to actual developments. In this context, it is also natural to consider further measures to improve the effectiveness of the return of those who have been refused a stay. I am pleased that the opposition parties will also be involved in discussing such solutions, and I am prepared to facilitate that the Storting may also discuss such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1327	The most eye-catching thing about this issue is the government’s signals that there is a greater desire to see the link between aid policy on the one hand and the return of asylum seekers on the other hand – in the form of a note, two government parties agree on this. In the past, there has been strong opposition to this from the member of the Government's government, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, when he here in the Stortinget took a great deal of distance from this proposal. Now the government has obviously turned around. At least the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have a different view. Can the Council of States explain the background to this? Is it such that Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre has lost internal to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1334	I have noticed that what is said in the vote on assistance is not related to the cut in the aid budget, but assistance in connection with the return. We already have it today. We have e.g. if a returnee returns to Afghanistan, a direct aid of NOK 10 000. You can get help with NOK 25 000 to start schooling or start business in your home country – we have that kind of assistance. Very many countries with which we have good contact, e.g. Afghanistan – I met with State Secretary Assimi there last autumn – is concerned about whether Norway could help to facilitate the return of Afghans as they see fit not only from Norway but from many countries at a time. Connecting the type of bilateral agreements to the possibility of returning those to be returned is nothing new. I understand that this is what the government parties, at least two of them, have agreed to in the setting, in line with the letter that I sent to Stortinget. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1339	The President will ask that all the speakers succeed in speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1342	All opposition parties request the Government to come back soon with proposals for amendments so that UN instruction can be made. Governments have reduced a sample which has been deadlined for November 2010. If one follows the normal process work of a sample, when does the Council of State, in accordance with the timetable of the Council of State, see that changes in the governance of the UN can be made? That's the one question. The second question is: can the Council of State rule out that the Government will make changes in this area before the sample concludes its work, or can he already say that someone will consider making this faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1349	To the last question, I can't say anything absolute. What I said in my post, and I think that actually, was that we need to keep up with developments in the field of asylum. As the representative is aware, it changes from year to year, from month to month, from which countries we get an increase, from which countries we get a decrease, etc. I reserve the right to adapt the instruments to actual developments. UNE has been set up to be a judicial body. If we are to make any changes to UNE, it should be after careful consideration, so that the legal and privacy aspects of this matter and, of course, international agreements are also taken into account. That's why we're going into that job. I am concerned that the independence of the UN is an important factor in legal certainty, and, as we know the legal systems in Norway, we do not want this to develop new policies. I share the representative's concern here, and we should at least go into this and look at that point of intersection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1356	The Christian People's Party, like the SV and the Left, is strongly critical that a person should use help as a means of pressuring for return agreements. Unfortunately, this is not what the Council of State said, because the comments from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Advance Party and the Right – I read from the comment: ‘will point out that in negotiations on such agreements, instruments such as, inter alia, general assistance, the construction of infrastructure for the reception of returnees and reintegration assistance should be considered.’;» [[...]] - So, general assistance. Motivation and the aim of providing assistance, namely to help the world's poorest, are breaking completely. There is reason to repeat the question in the first line: does the Council of State share Mr. Jonas Gahr Støre's view, which takes a distance from using assistance, or does he share Mr. Stokkan-Grande's view of this serious matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1367	I share the view of the vote, which shows the example I mentioned before, that the Afghan authorities would like us to help build up their infrastructure in connection with people coming back from other countries, not just from Norway. Then it's natural for us to say that we might be able to contribute. We contribute a lot in Afghanistan. Then I think it's natural to see if it can be seen in the context of a situation where lone minors from Afghanistan are sent to Norway in a dramatic increase in the number of human traffickers. Then it doesn't just keep saying poor children. We have to say, in fact, that we cannot allow the Refugee Institute to be abused in that way. We have to try to find proper arrangements for a careful return, so that we can stop the traffic with children who are sent to Norway without protection. Someone has to take responsibility for that. We can then see this in the context of the cooperation agreement between the Afghan authorities, UNHCR and the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1372	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1377	I'm just going to take the floor at the end of the debate to a brief clarification of what the matter here is actually about. It's not a single theme we're discussing. It is about the fact that very many individuals are exposed to danger by travelling from their home country to a European country, seeking protection and possibly staying in a limbo situation between the country that refuses to give them residence, and the home country that does not want to take them back. It is a responsibility that we in this Parliament in Norway must also assume. How can we manage both to deal with the influx of asylum seekers and also to implement the decisions taken regarding the residence of those who are to be accommodated, and not least the return of those who are being rejected? Bjørg Tørresdal indicated that we are now marking World Refugee Week, a very important mark. She referred to the obvious, which I think we all agree on, that we have a responsibility, and that we want to take responsibility, for the world's refugees. But there's an obvious misunderstanding here, at least it seems as if Bjørg Tørersdal and the Christian People's Party want to misunderstand what's at the heart of the matter. Indeed, it is not right, as is claimed by the Chair here, that the tightening-up measures that have been implemented are tightening up the institution of asylum. There are restrictive measures to prevent people without protection, i.e. people who are not refugees, from embarking on a rigid journey and harbour in the situation that unfortunately thousands of people are doing in Europe. We're just doing that to be able to take care of our refugees today. It was also one of the reasons why some of the first government did, was to increase the number of quota refugees from the greedy low number it was on when the Christian People's Party put in government. The second is that there has been a lot of talk about the comment that concerns assistance to the work on return agreements. I find reason to refer that comment again, because there is obviously someone here who wants to misunderstand the matter. So the majority of people who write this is that they write this. ‘will point out that in negotiations on such agreements, instruments such as, inter alia, general assistance, the construction of infrastructure for the reception of returnees and assistance for reintegration of individuals should be considered’. I cannot understand and understand how people who stand on this pulpit, such as Bjørg Tørresdal and others, and who are clear that those who have been denied must, of course, respect it and return, are not at all willing to enter into arrangements that can actually help them to reintegrate into their home country, which can build infrastructure in the country of origin, which can both motivate the home country to accept and the individual to return. I do not understand, and I would like to ask you to explain that, because that is what this remark is all about. Then we always have to live with quotes being dragged out in every possible direction, and that there are some who want to set up individual representatives against each other. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State signals that the Storting will be involved in this effort to create more, better and more holistic arrangements than the European country has today in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1398	I just want to start by saying that I agree with everything that the previous speaker said. In response to Mr Requam's comments, I believe that it is not a human asylum policy to have an asylum policy that creates a situation where people – and often those in their local environment are the most resourceful people – sell everything they own and have, and are indebted to international criminal organisations involved in trafficking in human beings, under a false premise that they might be able to have a stay in Norway, possibly to stay illegally in Norway for as long as they have the opportunity to return money over time. Such an asylum policy prevents the possibility of offering a good offer to those people who have a need for protection. These proposals are right-wing, but we have also, in our alternative budgets, made proposals to increase the share of quota refugees. It is quite obvious that Norway should receive a greater proportion of the world’s refugees in a situation that is totally hopeless, namely in the world’s refugee camps. So, to the question of the MUFs, which was also addressed by the representative of Rikvam. He said that the new thing now was that they would have to evaluate their relationship with the kingdom. No, it's wrong. The case of the MUFs was re-assessed – I kept saying: ‘again and again’ – and each time the case was assessed, the government was associated with the assessment on the same terms as in all other cases where people had been in Norway, except that the MUFs were given special treatment, which included the period of their stay in Norway without actually having to stay, that they were associated with the kingdom, which is not normal in other cases. So this group had special treatment already. In spite of this, they were refused under today's legislation until a political decision has actually given them a race to stay. The Ministry’s letter of consultation also states that there is no legal basis for this group to stay; it is a political decision. It is a wing policy that will lead to an increased influx of groundless asylum seekers. Then I would say that they are very positive, the signals that come from the Council of State regarding opportunities for minors in their country of origin. The signals coming there fully support the Right. It's a great initiative, which I also think will be of great help to those children who are sent from their closest on a very long journey. So, in the light of what the Council of State said about the possibility of returning with a comprehensive return policy, Right will request that proposal No. 4, from the Right, Left and Advance Party, is turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1411	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1414	First, to Bondevik II's relationship with quota refugees. In that period, there were problems with resettlement, and the number of quota refugees went down. But it was at the end of the period raised again, because one had a slightly better housing situation. It happened on the initiative of the Christian People's Party, which wants Norway to continue to accept an increased number of those defined as quota refugees. So to what has caused great waves in this discussion, namely the question of combining assistance and return agreements, or of using help as a means of pressuring to get back agreements. Just to clarify, what's important for the Christian People's Party is to distance yourself from using general assistance. What is said about the construction of infrastructure for the reception of repatriated citizens, we have no problems with it. We are very much in order for you to facilitate the conditions for those to be returned and returned, that there should be assistance for this. What we are against is that we should threaten to cut the overall aid to countries that do not want to conclude return agreements. General assistance is provided to the poorest in the world. Should the world be hit poorest because the authorities of the country where they live do not want to cooperate with the Norwegian authorities on the return of their own citizens? It's to tighten up refugee policy and hit people who have absolutely nothing to do with Norwegian refugee policy, and it's a betrayal of the world's poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1423	Let me get to the last one first. I don't understand that the majority is threatening to cut aid – that's not how the writing says, and I'm dealing with the writing. However, it is important to develop cooperation with countries in several areas, including: in order also to be able to return unaccompanied minors decently. I don't think that's upsetting at all. It is obviously a desire to misunderstand and draw the setting further than that is the basis for which, in relation to the comments that are actually taken into account by the ones for the setting. Then I have to say that I have a great understanding of the proposal from the Left, clarified and explained by the representative Dørum, in relation to the identity and documentation centre. It's a proposal that the Government has received and that we are now investigating the possibility of realising. I cannot now forge the conclusion on it, but it makes so much sense in such a proposal that I think it would be a pity if it were to be voted down in the Grand Duchy before the Government gets the opportunity to draw a conclusion at least on the fact that we need clearer, clearer and faster identification as an essential part of the asylum and immigration policy of the future. So I just want to say briefly to the MUF case that there are 316 people in Norway, not all, but some of the MUFs, who have come into a situation where the state has at some point provided the basis for believing that they could get a stay. That's in the context that we say mercy should go for justice, provided you haven't committed criminal acts with a certain length of punishment, and that identification is clear. I am absolutely sure it will not tempt anyone else to come to Norway. So to the refugees of the world, the week we're inside, and those who run away from bullets and poked: Yes, that's exactly my starting point for being responsible for this sector. I think we should have a strict but fair immigration policy. We must have a policy of integration that is tough but demands, and the background for it is precisely to comply with the Geneva Convention. That is precisely why we need to take action, so that not too many people apply for asylum without having a basis for asylum or protection on a humanitarian basis. That's the whole starting point for the tightening up that we adopted last year, and that is being implemented now, just to take care of those who the representative Tørersdal pointed to, those who flee from bullets, those who flee from terror. If we're going to be able to take care of them properly, we have to make sure that not the same institute is used by people who have other needs than protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1434	I have heard Councils speak 'bob-bob' in formed parliamentary forms, and I have heard Councils speak as the Council of State does today. After that speech, I would like to ask that my proposal, No. 16 is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1439	It's noted. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Churches, Exploration and Research, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. 4 and 5 will be treated below – and see it as a confirmation. [[Food, see page 3887]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1472	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Exploration and Research, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, a speaking time of up to 5 minutes is proposed to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1485	Research has, over the centuries, 'affected our attitudes, our thinking and our world images. Research has given us new recognition and contributed to significant progress’. The Committee does not have any difficulty in gathering on that statement, nor does it say that Norway today is «a knowledge-based society, where human capital is 85 pst. of the national wealth’. In my opinion, the Committee has worked well with the Research Communication – Climate for Research. All parties have contributed to the fact that we have written together in several areas, in very important areas of research and development. I think that is essential given the great role that research plays and will play in future solutions both to global and national challenges within, for example. climate, environment, energy, health and clean food. The Committee broadly agrees on objectives and priorities but sometimes very disagrees on how to achieve the objectives. However, I would like to thank the entire Committee for the good climate in its work on the matter. Today’s Research Communication highlights climate change as the main challenge in society today. The Communication is based on the previous Research Communication, which was addressed in 2005 — Will for Research — but extends the number of research policy objectives and brings together five strategic objectives and four horizontal objectives. The Research Communication states that the long-term research effort will be 3 pst. of gross domestic product. This is firm. At the same time, however, it is stressed that there is a need to shift the attention of research policy from resource intervention to results. I would like to mention some of the areas of research that the Committee has been concerned about. Basic research with a focus on quality and real science is such an area. The Committee stresses the importance of providing good and long-term funding for basic research. Basic research requires long-termity, and it may take many years before one sees the results of such research. This is precisely why the Committee has said that while a person sees the need for more objective and results management of research and supports it, the Committee will warn against excessive faith and focus on this in fundamental research in the coming period. The Committee has also been involved in the setting-up of the Committee this time. In such a perspective, research is not only a means but also an objective in itself. Another area in which the Committee has been involved is internationalisation. Research is international in itself, and it is important that we facilitate good international cooperation agreements with Norwegian researchers and research communities can be part of it. We have concluded cooperation agreements with a number of countries in recent years, but the main international arena for Norwegian research is our participation in the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research, which was launched at the turn of the year 2006/2007. Norway participates as a full member. The Committee points out that Norway did well in the 6th Framework Programme and that it was the research institutes and industry that had the largest participation. The Committee is also concerned that the role of the institutions should not be impaired in the 7th Framework Programme and points to the concern about high levels of ownership and that institutions have expressed that it has become more laborious to write good applications for research funding in the 7th Framework Programme. It is therefore positive that the notification highlights the importance of providing good facilities through the Norwegian Research Council in the form of advice, incentives and support measures in the preparation of applications. The Committee also wishes to review the projects in which we participate in the 7th Framework Programme, in order to bring them into line with the national priority projects. An area the Committee has identified as important is participation in the European Research Area, ERA. The Committee has noted that such participation is not part of the EEA Agreement and that it is therefore not automatic in allowing Norway to participate in the EU's further development of ERA. The Committee therefore asks the Government to follow up on this issue. The Committee also agrees on a great deal in energy, environmental and climate research, and the majority of the Committee is very pleased that climate-relevant research has been specifically promoted during this major period. The Committee has also been committed to highlighting Norway’s unique opportunities to become a new renewable energy-producing nation and has highlighted in particular the development of offshore wind turbines, where our offshore supply industry can contribute to the development of well-developed competences. The Committee also points to the importance of health and welfare research. Society is facing major challenges because we have an increasingly older population. It's basically positive that we live longer, but it also leads to more people, among other things. becomes demented. We also have an increase in the incidence of chronic diseases such as diabetes and COPD and an increase in the number of cancer cases. The Committee is concerned that medical research should be given a high priority in order to improve the understanding of these diseases and to develop new treatment methods. The Committee goes on to refer to the many ethical dilemmas related to health and social research and promotes a joint proposal for a decision in the recommendation calling on the Government to review research ethics rules for master and doctoral programmes in the field of research in children and young people at the intersection of health and social research. A last example of a field in which the Committee shares a common view is student-active research. This was an area that also received attention when we had the evaluation of the Quality Reform for treatment in Stortinget. The Committee follows on from the view that the research carried out at universities and higher education institutions is a resource which should be increasingly reflected in the competence of students. The Committee promotes a joint proposal asking the Government to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way to ensure, as far as possible, student-active research. I could have pointed out several areas where the Committee gathers, but there are also areas where there is a relatively large difference in reality. From the Workers' Party's side, we have recorded with amazement that the opposition is continuing the discussion on the achievement of the 1 pst target even after the NIFU STEP has established that it is likely to be met in 2010. Still, the opposition says it has to be implemented in 2013. Isn't that a little bit ambitious? For my part, I think that the debate on the 1 pst and 3 pst targets of GDP for research has received far too much attention in relation to the discussion on how to ensure quality and robustness in Norwegian research. I often get the impression that it's bad, but it doesn't. On the contrary, Norway has a well-developed research system, and Norwegian research is progressing both in terms of scale and quality. Then I find it unwise to talk our research effort down instead of developing all the good research environments that are gradually emerging and that help us as a nation to stand up as a knowledge nation. The NIFU STEP budget analysis shows that in 2009 we spend DKK 1 billion more on government budget research than previous estimates have shown. It is very gratifying that health businesses account for 600 million. kr of this billion. It shows that health research has a high priority, and that's good. Medical research is also the area with the largest growth in this four-year period by a red-green majority. I therefore note with some wonder that a global opposition somewhere indicates that ‘the government of Stoltenberg’s lack of investment in research has weakened the possibility of an offensive investment in health research and the development of new treatment services in Norway’. This may be an example of a somewhat different understanding of reality in some areas. I understand that universities and the Norwegian Research Councils need more predictability than the annual budgets provide. I am therefore pleased that it is proposed to present a stepping-up plan for climate research, and to make the system of Centres for Excellent Research a permanent scheme. It is also very positive that one should consider a new call for proposals for the research-driven innovation scheme. This will help to increase funding for more environments as well as more long-termity and space for action in the years to come. It is also very positive that the Government of the State budget for 2009 has increased the capital of the Research Fund by NOK 6 billion, of which SEK 4 billion is earmarked for investment in scientific equipment. This contributes to ensuring long-term and stable funding in a strategically important area. Finally, I would like to say that I think this message is a good message pointing forward for Norwegian research. Much can be even better, but I record that the average annual real growth in the public research budgets has been about 5 pst. under the red-green government. NIFU STEP's analysis shows that we spend $22.8 billion on R & D over the state budget. I think it's a good result, and a good result over what was achieved in the previous magnification period, which I think we're often compared to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1526	It is interesting to record the waved popularity of the percentage as the Government feels it is within reach or not. After refusing to discuss percentage targets both in the message and in the back of the message, it is interesting to record what is happening from the pulp, because the percentage of research effort is actually abolished in the message. What was supposed to be a target achievement by 2010 is instead becoming a target achievement in the very long term. I have tried to ask various representatives from the government parties what is meant by ‘in the long term’, and no one has been able to give any answer, until the Council of State in a letter of reply to me in the evening post on 19 May writes: ‘Is it ‘honestly’ that the red-green government promises to continue the growth of research appropriations, thus reaching the target of a percentage of gross domestic product for government research appropriations in 2013?’ My question is, why can't the goal be numbered in the message, and why are the government parties now voting against a proposal from the opposition to attach the 1 pst goal in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1538	I think that in recent years many different discussions about the percentage have shown how hopeless it really is to use it as a background for the discussion of developments in research and development. We think that it has taken the attention away from what is more important to discuss, namely the content, quality and robustness of research. That we have the 3 pst. goal as a long-term ambition is, of course, in line with what the rest of the EU has, and is not to be reduced for discussion. But that should be what always characterizes the discussion, we don't think we're right, and we don't think it belongs in a debate on research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1545	First, a little bit of a spiritual rug. I think it's in the evening post today that Director Hallén of the Research Council asks Jens to become a little more Obama – translated into popular Norwegian, show «passion», engage. So my question to the representative Kristoffersen is this: what does it do, when the Workers' Party comes forward, that it is high-worthy to have a percentage of cultural effort, high-ranking to have a percentage of aid policy, high-ranking to have precise figures in the National Transport Plan, while as we approach the research, you don't have the same zeal? Then we have the activity of saying that it's not so important, we have to think about something else. Is research policy less high-ranking in terms of political ambition than national transport plan, cultural policy and aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1556	Of course, research is not worth anything less than assistance, culture and national transport plan, but we believe that the discussion about the percentage has taken away the attention from discussing the content, quality and robustness of research and development. There has been a marked debate, and it has shown that it is not suitable for discussion on research and development. I understand that institutions want more predictability than the annual budgets provide, but there are other ways to solve those challenges than to get involved in the devastating debate that we have held in recent years around the percentage target for research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1563	It's a little remarkable that this government is busy talking away from the goals, while at the same time being very concerned that the goals can be achieved when you have the opportunity to achieve them. I noticed that the representative didn't talk anything about what was the second percentage, and that is business research. It is very far from the goal, and the government with which we are now sitting has done nothing but cut down on the instruments that are directed towards the research share of industry. The Tax Fund, the BIA and all the arrangements that have been tightened up. At the same time, the Communication states that research is socio-economically much more profitable than business. What happens when you get away from the goals right away when you see that you can't reach them, while you're very busy pointing out that you can achieve the goals where you can do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1570	As far as the participation of industry in research is concerned, it is equally important for this government as for the previous government. There are good business systems for research in Norway. The tax FUNN scheme has been evaluated and found to be a robust scheme, and we are betting on it. When it comes to the percentage and when we see that it can be achieved, and we don't discuss it when it can't be achieved, I would say that the representative Gundersen is wrong, because for four years we've done nothing but discuss percentages. This concerns the 3 pst. goal and the 1 pst. goal, and it has contributed quite strongly to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1577	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1581	Research provides the basis for addressing the major challenges facing society today, but also the future challenges that will arise. The progress party had hoped that the message had brought us something new, something offensive, but we were disappointed. I would also say that it is quite timely in relation to the expectations we had for the research report that there should be much more concrete proposals. Would the message contain something new, would it be concrete, or would it only be a dwindling speck of thought without clear objectives and measures? It was the last one. It is small obligating and full of words such as ‘estimated’, ‘expected’, ‘weaned’, ‘explored’, etc. One of the biggest disappointments is that the government is now moving away from the 3pst. goal. I noticed what the representative of Kristoffersen said in replying, because I would like to recall what the current Council of State Huitfeldt and the representative of Lena Jensen in the committee said to the newspaper Research No. 4-2007: ‘We have a long way to go before we reach the target, partly because growth in GDP in Norway has been very high in recent years. But the stupidest thing we can do is we can get rid of the goal. If we were not to achieve the goal, it has in any case acted as a motivation to invest more money in research." I now understand that this is no longer valid within the Government. The progress party wants to have a time horizon of achieving the 3 pst. goal, as well as another distribution of how much it is public and how much the private is going to contribute. We certainly believe that the public should be able to increase its share to 1.4 pst. of GDP by 2015. To make this possible, we will ask the Government to submit to the Stortinget a stepping-up plan for financing Norwegian research, at the latest in the context of the 2010 state budget. The plan shall be based on the objectives of Norwegian research as set out in the St.melding. No 30 for 2008-2009, and applicable for the financial years 2010–2013. It shall be assumed that the State research effort shall be at least 1 pst. of GDP by 2013, and that the target of 1.4 pst. shall be achieved by 2015. The ability and willingness to cooperate is another important area, as well as the possibility of seeing research and development in a wider perspective, avoiding fragmentation and intransigence. We see that the time is ripe for a structural change in the entire research policy, not just of the role of the Research Council and its principles of distribution. We also need to have a greater review of the different areas in which research is involved, and that is largely the case. Both the Research Council, SIVA and Innovation Norway need to be viewed in a context and evaluated. The various research areas of the Storting Committees should also be seen much more together. The Communication on Perspectives, the Communication on Innovation and the Communication on Research is only a small example of the links in research and development between three different committees. Norway, as a research and innovation country, needs to focus much more on resource use and get the most out of it, economically and socially. This will mean willingness to reallocate, institutional changes and better incentives. In particular, with regard to incentives, we are now promoting, in cooperation with the other opposition parties, a number of proposals that address the importance of mechanisms to promote cooperation, innovation and innovation across borders and across sectors. That is why we want the Stortinget to ask the Government to propose different incentive schemes to increase the overall research and development share with a focus on the cooperation between the academia and private business needed to contribute to internationalisation and innovation. Key roles here are quality and priority in research, which we see that other countries focus more and more on, as well as a more targeted and guided use of the Research Fund's returns. Therefore, we also promote proposals that the Stortinget asks the Government to ensure that the returns of the Research and Innovation Fund are used for long-term, strategic and cross-sectoral research, as well as to provide a stepping-up plan for the capital base of this fund in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. The notification is vague as to how the funds for the EU Framework Programme are to be financed. The Progress Party fully supports the fact that such firm commitments and operating costs are to be deducted from the Research Fund’s returns. The intention of the fund was precisely the opposite, namely to strengthen the long-term basic research. The return, as it has now become, shall not be used to close gaps in ordinary appropriations and almost become an ordinary grant item on the government budget. Here, too, long-termity and predictability are key words for the ability and not least the willingness to bet. The ability to increase cooperation between industry, the institute sector and the academia, both horizontally and vertically, is an area in which we are particularly concerned. As the OECD also pointed out to the Committee when we were in Paris, one of the main challenges for success as a globalised knowledge society is precisely the capacity for cooperation in the future. The competitiveness of industry is also increasingly based on technologies developed in cooperation with internationally leading academic environments with access to modern research infrastructures. In order for Norwegian research environments to be seen as attractive for recruitment, as partners in international projects and as host countries for foreign enterprises, we need to be able to provide modern, high-quality research infrastructures. We are therefore promoting a proposal to set up a separate scientific equipment fund of DKK 10 billion. The return on fund capital is earmarked for investment in research infrastructure. The Progress Party will therefore request the Government to submit binding plans for strengthening internationalisation work to research and educational institutions throughout the country, and to draw up a plan to ensure that a greater proportion of doctoral students carry out a longer stay in research at a foreign institution during their doctoral studies. In a situation where the Norwegian economy is facing major challenges, Norway needs to invest in long-term value creation. We need to lay the foundation for increased focus on the long-term by focusing on knowledge, on research and innovation and development. The basis for succeeding in the future is to bet on this. The fact that the world is in a deep financial crisis that makes it difficult to predict how and how long this situation will last requires that we, as politicians, should make much more use of forward-looking and holistic approaches to the various developments in research and development and social development. We need to focus on research, and we need to think about long-term investment in knowledge for the future. Furthermore, it is important to be able to develop incentives to increase the number of technology transfer agreements, as well as a plan for how clustering and networking can trigger additional funds for research and development. Long-term research budgeting is just one of the instruments that needs to be put in place. We need international cooperation measures, increased mobility of researchers in and out of Norway, increased governance of what funds go to the EU Framework Programme are being used to see whether our national objectives are being met. We need to see how companies' ability to qualify better in relation to international activities, read EU programmes, can be strengthened. We therefore propose that the Stortinget should ask the Government to come up with a strategy plan to increase Norway’s ability to influence decisions on the use of EU funds in research and development, with the aim of channelling funds to achieve Norway’s defined national objectives. In order for Norwegian research environments to be seen as attractive for recruitment, as partners in international projects and as host countries for foreign enterprises, we need to be able to offer modern, high-quality equipment. It is necessary to extend the FUNN tax scheme, which specifically takes care of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, we are asking for research funding schemes to be reviewed in order to remove bureaucratic barriers, increase flexibility in the application processes and increase predictability of the different schemes. Basic funding plays a major role in the recruitment of sectors, and there is little doubt about it. We therefore promote a proposal that the Stortinget asks the Government to present a separate case on the recruitment strategy for scientific positions at universities, colleges and research institutes, as well as an obliging plan for research recruitment. But there's not quite black out there – there's a lot of exciting happening. Whether it's this government or the previous government that's marked out the loop, it's completely immaterial to us in the Progress Party. The most important thing is that the job is done, and that we get results and achieve the goal you have set. Should I look up this bag with mixed drops, I would say that the creation of SFFs and SFIs is the right way to go – young entrepreneurship, research schools and also the use of VRI and BIA funds important tools. New NCEs and Arena projects are also exciting to follow up. But it shouldn't be so fragmented and confusing that we don't see the context, and lose the overall objectives of vision. Last but not least, the political will to prioritize research, development and innovation must rise to the level necessary for Norway to succeed as a knowledge nation into the future. The intentions of the state council Aasland are probably good, but it's not a good thing when the council doesn't listen when the purse is distributed in the boss's office. There may have to be more things like ‘Ida’ in the media to raise research where it belongs. I address the proposals that we alone, or in cooperation with other parties, have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1646	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1651	It is good that not everything is dark for the Advancement Party. The percentage is in the message, and I record that it seems that we can achieve the target already in 2010, but that the Progress Party – like the rest of the opposition – has 2013 as a target. But that wasn't my question. The EU Framework Programme for Research is very good, which is also good for Norway. Norwegian research communities were well reported in the 6th Framework Programme, and everything indicates that we are doing well in relation to the 7th Framework Programme, which is currently in force. But then I become a little uncertain about what the Progress Party really thinks about participation in EU research. On the one hand, there are positive comments from the Committee on Research within the EU. On the other hand — later in the vote — there is more criticism and more uncertainty about EU-registration research. What does the Progress Party really think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1660	What has been most important to us is that once such a large contribution comes from Norway and into the EU Framework Programme, it is important that we see that what comes back to the country in the form of research funds and projects is adapted to the Norwegian research objectives. Norway is now outside the EU, and influencing the process and programmes that are prioritised with research funding has not been easy. It has also been stated by the Prime Minister himself that this is one of the areas in which he will focus to a much greater extent, in order to be able to direct the funds back to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1667	In the last period, the Progress Party used its power to cut off research into climate and environment. The budgetary agreement between the then government parties and the Progress Party, the 2003 state budget, cut environmental and energy research by 60 million. kr. I stress that this cut was not included in the original budget of the Bondevik government, but the proposal came as a direct consequence of the agreement with the Progress Party. It is a paradox that the Progress Party in the political debate highlights the uncertainty surrounding man-made climate change while cutting down on research, which can actually provide better insight. How can we better understand the uncertainty about the climate of the future if research into climate and the environment is cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1674	What is most important to us is to look ahead – and to see what challenges we obviously have. We have spent money on the Research Fund, precisely on research into alternative solutions in the field of energy. We continue to agree that further research funding will be provided in this area. Now I hear that the representative refers to something that happened in 2003. It's almost seven years ago, and it's hard to say what assessments and negotiations were underlying – whether something was added or subtracted – so it's impossible for me to answer. I just know that this is an area where the Progress Party – and the other opposition parties – are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1681	NIFU STEP submitted a report a week ago that shows that we are well placed to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of GDP for research by 2010. Nevertheless, the opposition has not changed its remarks, but still believes that we should have the goal of reaching 1 pst. of GDP in 2013 — i.e. a less ambitious target than that of this government. After hearing Åse Michaelsen's post, I wonder if the representative from the Progress Party will be disappointed if we reach the goal of 1 pst. by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1686	Now it is very important to look at what is in the setting – there is at least 1 pst. by 2013 and 3 pst. by 2015. In addition, the Progress Party will have a public research share of 1.4 pst., which we will also receive support from very many of the research communities. That's our goal. If one could reach 1 pst. By 2010, it's really nice, but it would be a lot more enjoyable if you could have managed to get up on a public research share of 1.4 pst. of GDP by 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1691	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1694	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Mr Kristoffersen, for his good work. Debates on research will raise the major issues. It has to be both visionary and concrete. We're going to think far ahead. If we are to succeed in research in Norway, all sectors must contribute. It's not enough for the public to do more research. Business and private life must also devote greater resources to research. We need to organise research to be attractive to business. Right and other opposition parties promote several proposals that will contribute to it. If we are to get the most innovative idea, the most revolutionary medicine, the innovation with the greatest potential, the greatest breakthrough in history research, it is required that wise heads are connected with visionary leaders and with sufficient resources. We have to cooperate rather than counterwork. We have to give business the framework conditions that enable offensive investment in research, and the state has to go ahead and show the way. Long-termity is required. It took 50 years to understand that antimatter could be used to diagnose and treat cancer. Research is often difficult to control and plan, because it should be free. It's almost like going to the library where you're looking for one particular book, and then you end up with ten others instead. This research debate has a certain historical dimension. It is historic in the sense that a position on the choice of the research policy for the first time divides the political environment. The opposition promotes a total of 43 commitment proposals. The right is behind 37 of them. The proposals cover a wide range, far beyond the percentages, and they are well described in the setting. That's why I'm not going to go deeper into these. In comparison, ten different proposals were made in agreement with the previous research report – but the whole of the Stortinget was behind the ambitious objectives that the message drew. In the present message, unfortunately, there are no ambitious goals to stand behind. Ironically, it was SV that promoted seven of the ten different proposals at the time, because they would be even more offensive than the government. Ironically, the SV is now at the head of a government that leaves the same goals as the Stortinget at the time unanimously adopted. The message, which should be an exercise in excitement, was instead the message where the Government dropped its ambitions and objectives. What is particularly eye-catching and unfortunate is that the government chooses to leave a goal behind a total increase. In this way, it tears up a cross-political consensus on prioritising research. When the Storting now asks to adopt lower objectives, without a time indication, it has its background that the Government does not want to invest as much in research as it does in other areas. Not only do they leave 1 pst. and 3 pst. targets, they are not replaced by any other targets, which have been the government mantra in many contexts – percentages are poor, other targets are good. The government now argues that percentage targets are not appropriate as a guide to research efforts. Nevertheless, the Government argues for and maintains percentages in other sectors of the budget. The area of assistance and culture may be the two most important. At the time of the submission of the 2009 State Budget, 7 October last year, the Minister of Finance of Stortinget said: ‘We prioritise international solidarity by being the first government to reach the goal of using 1 pst. of aided gross national income. Those who set low goals never have to work hard to reach them. It sounds nice, but it's not our motto. We, who set ourselves high targets, always have something to reach for." I fully agree with the Minister of Finance on that. But I'm really wondering why this shouldn't apply to research. The evening post in its editorial article, 21 April, wrote: ‘First, when the target was no longer within reach, the share of GDP became misleading. It's also a way to do it when you don't achieve your own political goal. Rinse on the scale.’» So the government's strategy has been to embrace the percentage when it looks like we can get to it, and to hush it when it's far away. It's a little credible. Nearly half of the growth in research appropriations during this period comes from the Bondevik II government budget proposal for 2006. The red-green government needed to cut in that proposal, among other things. in the planned fund escalation. Minister of Finance Halvorsen felt that the entire budget was a stumbling block. We are very many who in retrospect have wondered what she really stumbled into – whether there were too many appropriations for research within the budget. Of course, the budget was not a stumbling block. It was a follow-up to an ambitious research report that Stortinget had just decided. If they wanted to invest in research, any government would have wished to step up its research efforts in the budget and add something to it. A new Council of State for Research led many to hope. Like many others, I have followed the listening process with interest. The problem is that the budget that has been presented has been lagged in relation to the promises, needs and efforts made in the sectors of the Government, which have shown that it wants to bet on. The research message became too many really the nail in the chest, because it shows that it does not stick with a government council that has good will and a good desire for dialogue. You also have to have a government that is behind the desire to give priority. The downturn in the sector is deep, and it makes the government wise to take seriously. It can't be tricked away by tricking with numbers. As you know, there's no more money to research that you count the same money in different ways. It only creates provocation and no understanding that the government suddenly, and only in the field of research, will use mainland GDP and not the total GDP as a measure, while petroleum-related research is not extracted from the plusidality of the calculation. Norwegian researchers deliver high international-class research. Among the spearheads are the centres for excellent research. The first 13 came into place in 2002, and today we have 21 SFFs in Norway. They shall contribute to raising the quality of Norwegian research. Research training is an essential part of the activities of the SFFs. Brain researcher Marianne Hafting Fyhn received the prize for the world's best doctoral thesis in 2005 in neurobiology, on how the sense of place works. She's connected to one of the SFFs, namely the Center for Memory Biology at NTNU. Just young researchers should have been a central theme in the message. New president of UiO, Ole Petter Ottersen, said in Apollon No. 2 for 2009: ‘There is no doubt that Norway is far from a country to which it is natural to compare. And this is not because of lack of talent, but because of the lack of resources to develop the talents." Last fall, the government drew its alert on research recruitment, to great disappointment. The expectations were, of course, quite high in relation to the present research report in view of recruitment. The need is clear. The staff member for permanent employment as a researcher is 43 years old. There will always be a certain degree of temporaryity in the sector, but the main challenge now is that universities and colleges do not look at it firmly, because they do not have the money for it — if at all they employ someone. It's unsustainable with a policy in which we educate the wisest of our heads well, but have no plan for how to use the competence afterwards. When a young man with a doctorate in immunobiology cannot get a post doc. position, but instead must stand in line on Nav and get offers of jobs without a requirement for education, there is a poor use of his competence. In fact, Norway has the lowest ratio between PhDs. and post doc. All over the OECD, and we're going to blow up if we don't use the skills that researchers have. The only action discussed in the message is so-called tenure track, or entry position, and that action rejects the Government. In the right, it may be worth trying out such a scheme for the period 2009–2012. We propose escalation plans for 400 scholarship positions annually up to 2013 – and 300 post doc. positions in the same period. 30 pst, respectively. and 50 pst. of which, grants awarded through the Norwegian Research Council shall be free. We propose career guidance services and obliging recruitment strategies for institutions – to address the upcoming generation shift. Research cannot live on just good intentions and positive publicity. Neither can the researchers live on just good intentions and positive publicity. Once again, I urge the government parties to think about the present setting and to support the proposals that the opposition is promoting, at least some of them, so that the Government can contribute to agreement on Norwegian research policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1754	The numbers' speech is pretty clear. If one compares with the budgets of the Bondevik government – perhaps with the exception of the latter, which was a cut-off budget – the growth in research appropriations has been significantly higher during this government. I notice that the representative very often uses the word ‘ambitions’. It makes me ask the following questions: Is it the way that the Right's ambitions grow further away from the government quarter you're coming? It might seem like this to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1761	We're about to make a choice. This means that the right is quite close to government offices, and ambitions have always been high — both inside and outside government. Together with Stortinget, we made a plan and a commitment to stepping up Norwegian research efforts. We complied with that plan. We allocated a lot of money to research when we were in government, and we left behind a budget that followed up the research message that had just been adopted. The amazing thing is that the representative de Ruiter is talking about investing in research. He is the representative of a government who found out that the smartest thing to do when you took over a very good research budget was to cut NOK 25 billion of the planned escalation to the Research Fund. What I think is a special way of talking about research. If that escalation had been maintained, the research in 2007 would have had 800-900 million. kr more for distribution. It could have become a lot of recruitment positions. There could be a lot of new SFFs. There could be considerable efforts in future recruitment, new areas and new ways of life. So the government chose to lower the level of ambition as soon as they got the opportunity. And now, in the message, they choose to lower the level of ambition further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1770	In 2007, the Norwegian Research Council examined proposals for a framework for the organisation and management of regional research funds, where regional governments were to dispose of the fund’s returns on the basis of the region’s priorities, and there was an obligation to cooperate with the Research Council. The government has followed up the recommendation of the Research Council. Regional research funds have been set up, with a fund capital of DKK 6 billion. The objective of the Funds is to meet the research and development needs of the counties. Means shall be provided for the development of good and competitive research environments in all the counties. However, the Right Party – and the Advance Party – knew better than the Research Council and wrote in the setting for the implementation of the administrative reform: ‘It is the opinion of these members that there is no strengthening of the regional environment by reducing the quality or competitiveness of the projects’.» So the right-hand side went counter-clockwise. The regional research funds have been very well received around the country — in industry, in trade, in research, in municipalities and in counties. My question to Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide is: why will the Right not contribute to the development of competences, regional development, jobs and innovation across the country, through the regional research funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1786	We in the Right went – like the Progress Party – towards the creation of regional research funds. It had two very clear reasons, which you can also read about in the setting. Firstly, we believe that regional research funds can contribute to the fragmentation of research policy. We are a small country, with relatively limited research resources – both human and economic – compared to many other countries. We need a national research policy where one takes the overall grips and the overall governance. Secondly, we believe that it is a point that we are already experiencing, in many contexts, sustainability issues related to the allocation of research funds. The research environments are small. This means that it is often the same people who – in fact – sit on all sides of the table, and who have to give and receive money. These environments know each other very well. It can sometimes be an advantage, but it can also be a disadvantage. That's why we wanted to spend this $6 billion on the ordinary research fund, which could use it for different actions, which would also benefit the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1795	Student-active research could mean that you need to study more, and we all know that that depends on a good student funding. I record that the previous government significantly reduced the support for the study, something former State Council Clement has regretted. One did not adjust the study aid. My question to the representative is this: Does she regret that she was in favour of reducing the study aid in the previous period? And question number 2: does she think reducing student support is a good tool for strengthening student active research?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1802	The representative de Ruiter should know the difference between reducing something considerably and not adjusting anything up. The previous government had one very clear priority: to complete the quality reform. It was crucial to achieve quality reform on the legs, to make it work in the institutions and – not least – to ensure better student quality. We did. There is also something that has been broken by this government's large rest cuts and cuts in the basic appropriations of universities and colleges. It is no longer the case that the quality reform is fully financed. I ask the representative de Ruiter to note in particular that there is one common demand from the student organisations, universities and higher education institutions for the 2010 budget, and that is to increase basic appropriations. It's historical, it's eye-catching, that student organisations in Norway are demanding more money for universities and colleges than more money for student support. Besides that, of course, I think student-active research is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1813	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1816	‘Climate for research’ is a good, concrete and ambitious message that sets out research for the future. Research and research-based knowledge play a vital and important role in the development of society in the future. Research is one of the most important tools to strengthen us through the climate crisis and the financial crisis, but research also has a value in itself. The title of the message is well suited to its contents. Climate change is the most important challenge facing us, and it shows that research has an objective and direction. The communication of research is clear on research policy objectives for what we are going to achieve with research. Thematic efforts are environment, climate, energy and poverty, the north, further development of the Norwegian welfare community, strengthening the international dimension and facilitating future value creation. Research is based on high quality. The message signals a more systematic follow-up to the results and a better dissemination of resources and experience. An overall opposition today agrees that the 1 pst target for research, i.e. the OECD target, will be achieved in 2013 – a target that we are likely to achieve in 2010. The new figures from the NIFU STEP show this. The government has presented the package of measures and revised budgets with a strong focus on higher education education and competences to ensure that we are strengthened out of the financial crisis. I'm currently using $22.3 billion, which is 0.94 pst. of GDP, for research. The only way we can see the proposals from an overall opposition is that they want to lower the objectives and ambitions of research, and they signal a slower escalation plan than the government parties put up here. This corresponds to what today's opposition did when they were in government. They spent less money on research than the current government has spent in this period. The message, and the vote by the majority, are clear: we are stepping up research in the years to come. Had we followed up on the opposition's proposal for 1 pst. in 2013, it would lead to a slower escalation of research effort than that to which this government refers. The one-sided focus on the 1 pst. goal as a goal in itself when it comes to investing in research shows how wrong it can be. If we look further at the opposition parties, they have different objectives and different priorities in research. It is completely unclear what kind of research policy would be conducted with a bourgeois government. The Right and Advance Party are opposed to regional research funds. The other parties are in favour. The left will research climate and environment, but last time, the Progress Party was given an impact on this research. Obviously, it's the red-green government that has the ambitions. It is necessary to have good research equipment. Bad maintenance and equipment maintenance has been a problem for many years. Bad frameworks around research weaken quality. SV is satisfied with the financial instrument put in place in relation to equipment. The size has set a target of 1 100 graduate doctorates in 2010. This target has blown up the red-green government. But we don't stop – we want to continue to bet on recruiting, on scholarship holders and on a good research school. The fact that the Government in its last budget chose to increase funding to grantees by 20 p.m. signals this in a good way. The majority comment on the subscriber scheme has created some uncertainty in the library sector. I would just like to stress, on behalf of the majority, that we are in line with the Children's and Family Committee in the case of a full offer, and that the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches will continue to work on the scope, organisation and financing of such national licences. North Region Research is important. The northern regions are dedicated to a separate chapter of the message. It is central to the Government's research plan. Research and higher education are the very hub of the Northern Region Initiative of the Government. An important measure against the Right and the Advance Party is regional research funds. It is an important tool for creating and facilitating increased research in areas that need to be stepped up in research. $6 billion to a fund will give about $271 million. kr in 2010. It is important for regional development, in order to secure and create jobs for the future. The opposition cracks and has no common policy. Should a secure research for the future, you cannot trust the opposition, but you can trust SV! SV is at the head of a government that sets itself goals and reaches them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1846	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1849	I usually guard myself well to use the term “shock”, but I was almost shocked by the post of Lena Jensen. She can't possibly have read the setting we're dealing with when she says that the opposition cracks in all directions. It is therefore true that a total opposition in this matter is united on 31 concrete proposals! There are relatively many, and it shows a very clear direction. I thought Lena Jensen had brought it. So she misinformed Lena Jensen when she said that the opposition's proposal for 1 pst. by 2013 is a little ambitious. So the proposal says ‘at least 1 percent’ by 2013. In addition, the Progress Party proposes that the public share should be increased to 1.4 pst. by 2015, and that the total research share shall be 3 pst. GDP. Why is it that EN – which is now claiming to be a leading spearhead in research policy – is not involved in these ambitious goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1857	SV is a spearhead in the field of research and development. That's what this big message is all about, and it shows it. The government makes use of other targets, too, not just percentages. When we say we want to achieve that goal of 1 pst. As the Stortinget has set – possibly by 2010 – it shows, first of all, that having a one-sided percentage rate is not working. This is not ambitious enough in relation to what this government has done. I am very proud that this government has invested in research. If you go in and look at the speech of the numbers, they show very clearly that this government has spent a lot more money on research than the previous government spent. We haven't funded research with cuts in study places, as the former government did. They cut over 4,000 places of study. Only in this year's revised budget have we added over 4,000 places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1868	It was just to be lacking that no more money was spent on research in 2009 than in 2005, when the government has NOK 185 billion more to distribute. SV wrote the following about escalation plans in the setting of the previous research message: ‘In addition to the fact that an escalation plan will act as a push against the annual budgetary procedure, a plan could also improve planning opportunities for the heavy research communities.’;» In a reply to Clemet, the representative Jensen said in 2005: ‘I believe that the Council of State is now in the process of budgeting for 2006. The size now says that we want the Council of State to come up with a plan for the escalation, and I will then challenge the Council of State to say something about when this plan can come." The plan came as famous, but the red-green cut in it. In the message we are handling today, there are no escalation plans, no obligations, except proposals from the opposition on escalation plans and commitments, which the government parties are going to vote against. Can the representative Jensen explain to me why SV believes that escalation plans are now a bad idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1889	Long-termity and predictability of research are important. It's because research in its nature is long-term. Therefore, SV is very pleased that the main message that is now on the ground clearly signals a further escalation in research. Long-term funding is incredibly important, and there is something that SV will neither deprioritise nor focus less on. SV will continue to increase the appropriations for knowledge over the next major period, which will ensure the welfare state, create jobs and resolve the climate crisis. I'm afraid that if the opposition comes to power again, the same thing that happened in the last period, that it will go beyond climate research. I can assure the representative Eriksen Soreide that SV will continue to work for a great step up of the research, as we have done in the current period, and as this Storing Message and this setting signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1898	I do not think the research debate is served by the fact that SV is heard in such a way that the Russian submarine captain of Harald Heide-Steen Jr. is heard clearly, as to what SV thinks about research policy. I'm going to be very clear. We had a research report in 2005, which the representative Reikvam on behalf of SV worked with with great intensity, great ambition and great pressure, and the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has just quoted the representative Lena Jensen from the debate on that plan. I have a completely different theory, that this actually meant SV when you met at Soria Moria. But then, in the fight in the government, in the struggle for everyday policy, SV loses all the priorities in absolutely all rounds right up to this day. What is then the result is that what is being produced as high-ranking in 2005 and what was the challenge to Clemet State Council does not count at this time. I don't think the representative Lena Jensen sees that it's a more obvious explanation than trying to explain that one per. This year have left most of the obligations that you had before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1909	I can assure the representative Dørum that SV's pressure and intensity in investing in and strengthening research for the future will continue. Our commitment to this is strong. The numbers' speech is ready. Doorroom is representative of one of the opposition parties who in the setting says that we should reach the 1 pst target of GDP by 2013. This goal will most likely be achieved by 2010. What the government adds up to, and the SV adds up to, is that dealing unilaterally with the percentages will not strengthen the research. What SV will continue to work with, and on which we will bet – and which Dørum can be sure that SV will use time and energy – is to further strengthen research in the years to come. It also signals the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1918	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1921	It is almost a little historic that the last matter the Education Committee is dealing with is the communication of research, which is just about to draw the lines into the future. Norway shall be a competitive knowledge society in the future. Then we depend on investing in research, innovation, innovation and entrepreneurship. It is essential to maintain the level of well-being of today because Norway will not be able to live on oil in the future. Research is absolutely necessary to develop ideas and industries we can build on. The research report that the then State Council Lilletun delivered in 1999, represented a time gap in Norwegian research. It set ambitious targets for efforts, and this led to increased quality and greater resources. The Bondevik II government also set ambitious targets for research. The aim was for Norway to reach the average OECD level in 2010. We have not achieved the resource target that was set, but ambitious targets act as an important driving force for increasing research efforts. I therefore strongly disagree with the Government's downturn of the 3 pst. goal. With the red-green government's rest cutting in the field of higher education, we have lost four years of progress. It requires a stronger priority for research. To meet demands for new and more climate-friendly solutions and general innovation, we need a formidable commitment to research and research cooperation between universities, universities and businesses. We therefore believe that the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2010 State Budget, should present an obliging escalation plan on how to reach the average OECD level of research in Norway. It is important to establish that the 3 pst. target is established and that the State research effort is to be at least 1 pst. of GDP by 2013. We have great challenges in keeping the good heads, recruiting new scientific staff and updating old scientific equipment, which is still hanging. Over the next six to nine years, 40 pst. of those with fixed research positions in the sector, retire. To meet this challenge, there is a strong need for more permanent scientific jobs in the sector. Several scholarship holders and post doc. positions need to be created to take care of and facilitate further development of peak competence. Prosthesis research is important, including: to make education better and more useful to society as a whole. Therefore, there is a need for more funding for higher education research and the new universities, such as the University of Agder, which continue to be involved in professional training. There is also a need to build good research environments at these institutions to ensure more research-based education than is the case today. We believe that research needs to be more clearly integrated as an instrument in development policy as well. Few developing countries have the means to carry out good research on poverty diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS on their own. Norway has good environments that can contribute to this research cooperation. In many cases, research raises major ethical issues. I believe that research ethics and ethical issues in general need to be more focused on higher education, including the training of researchers and research environments. We need an active, open and public debate on the ethical issues that research raises. Researchers have a separate ethical responsibility and a responsibility to contribute to public participation in the considerations taken. The contribution of the humanistic disciplines to understanding important aspects of social development – such as globalisation and the development of the multicultural society – is given too little attention in the Communication and was duly commented on at the consultation to the Committee. Cultural conditions underpin social governance, individualisation, consumption patterns, innovation and technology development and international interaction. Therefore, a broader understanding of these assumptions and how they premise for development in different areas of society is needed. A coordinated humanistic and social science effort to understand the cultural prerequisites of societal development is necessary to complement the more instrumentally oriented main fields of action in Norwegian research. Since time starts to run out and I only have five minutes, I just want to take the headline at my last point, namely that climate research is about much more than technology research. It's also about how we as a society act, and how we're going to solve the challenges of having industries that need resources and that are also challenging to the climate. That part of the research we also need to focus much more on. I refer to the suggestions we have with others in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1947	The representative Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1952	Since the representative got so little time, I will be kind and give the opportunity to get into a more profound topic that you didn't have time to talk so much about. It's time for research. You are involved in a comment, along with others, where you write that you are concerned about the lack of opportunity for continuous time for research. You have a proposal asking the Government to confirm the 50/50 principle regarding the allocation of time between research and education. I would then ask, how would the Christian People's Party propose to do this in practice? Then I think especially about the small colleges out in the districts. Do you see that it can have some consequences, and maybe some that are negative?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1959	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1962	Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1968	I see that there will be some consequences for some of the schools that are out in the districts, namely that they need to be given more research funding. I have attended a college that was a small institution, on my way to university, and the way they have been accepted in getting recognition and getting uplifted in relation to the research competence that they actually possess has been sad to experience. I think it's important to establish a principle that for researchers it's about both education and research, as well as communication. Then you also have to create systems that make this follow up. I would also like to be allowed to refer to the Committee's trip to Rome where we were able to see how the dissemination of research in a popular way could actually be done. I think that principle will benefit students, the people for the benefit and not least the researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1975	The Christian People's Party at Dagrun Eriksen is one of the opposition parties that have made a common observation in the attitude that you want to achieve 1 pst. of GDP for research by 2013. We've been on this topic before, and it's likely that this goal will be achieved by 2010. First of all, isn't it to come up with such a goal less ambitious than what the Government puts up to? Secondly, does it not show that focusing one-sidedly on a percentage does not necessarily give more money to research, and that it is not a good way to set goals for research? The government says that the most important long-term objective is to set clear research policy objectives. Is this not a better objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1986	I have heard the argument about not staging, and I have listened carefully to what the red-greens have also said in this room about it today. I guess there's never been as much talk about the percentage as the time when the government canceled this percentage. The whole consultation of the research committee was really filled with percentage-target discussion. I want to stress that it says «minimum». It is strange that when NIFU STEP's report came with a Hurrah! And we can reach this without doing anything extra, this goal was hot and deeply embraced by the government parties. I would like to remind you that there is an ambitious target of 3 pst. goal from the entire opposition, and an even more ambitious goal from the Christian People's Party and the Left. If we look back at the history of research, it was when Lilletun was able to get the research related to the annual budgets and get the discussion going, that we got the research funding speeded up here in the country. That's why we don't have to put those targets on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e1993	The representative, Eriksen, was engaged in research recruitment. It's important. Scholarships and doctoral students are important, and the measures work. This government has allocated funds to approx. 1000 grantees and nutrition PhDs. In comparison, there were 658 scholarship holders in the previous period. Goals have been discussed a lot, and it was a goal in the previous survey to graduate 1 100 doctoral students in 2010. In 2008, more than 1,200 scholarship holders were graduated. Christian People's Party criticises the Government for the lack of recruitment and shows, among other things, for the NIFU STEP number of 520 scholarship holders. But the Christian People's Party itself does not propose anything in relation to a goal of increasing the number of scholarship holders. That's why I was going to ask Eriksen the representative: what does the representative of Eriksen think would be a sufficient number of scholarship holders?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2002	I listen very carefully to the sector that says they don't want any more places to study until they get full funding. Priority No one has been the basic allocation for the sector. There's a Christian People's Party delivered, and we're going to deliver. But with the research that we've been able to fill up from the fund, there would have been a lot more to research than what's going on under the current government. I want to say, because I have heard several times that in the last period it was only granted so and so much, that the plan did not come at the beginning of the previous period, but in the middle of the period. This government has had $180 billion more to distribute than we had in the last period. So it's not so strange that you've managed to follow up. You have to pay tribute for having managed to get a few more jobs for research than we thought we could do. But with the cut in the basic appropriations, I think the recommendation for this government will be a black chapter in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2009	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2012	Norway is a rich country. And it is primarily the human resources – that is, human capital – that make up the main share of our wealth. Calculations of the national wealth show that the reserves of oil and gas were 12 pst. of national wealth in 2004, while human capital amounted to a total of 77 pst. Today’s text, to use that expression — the Research Communication — answers the priorities underpinning public research policy. Development of competences and research is a key to innovation and quality development. Research is basically about expanding human recognition and stimulating curiosity. Based on estimates for the development of GDP, price and salary levels available today, as well as the State budget analysis of NIFU STEP, this means that public aid for R & D will amount to about 1 pst. of GDP already early in the next major period. Society faces a number of challenges that cannot be solved without research. Not least these main areas of activity — health, environment and energy use. Therefore, an offensive commitment to research is essential in order to ensure future well-being and value creation. Access to skilled labour is central here and an important premise for development across the country. Society needs more highly skilled workers, and a highly advanced population is contributing to the creation of more jobs. Equal access to education is also closely linked to equal access to education. Here our colleges play an important role. Higher education institutions shall provide relevant, high-quality education to serve the needs of the labour market throughout the country. At the same time, a certain division of labour between institutions is necessary to prevent unfortunate competition for the same students. Effective interaction between educational institutions and local and regional businesses and public authorities is important to strengthen knowledge-based activities throughout the country. In the current year's budget, the government has initiated a significant investment in regional research. This applies, inter alia, to: setting up regional research funds of DKK 6 billion. The regional funds shall enhance research capability through regional research and innovation. The annual rate of return is likely to be around 285 million. kr from 2010. The Fund shall be complementary to national R & D instruments and shall strengthen regional research and interaction between industry, universities and regions. This will contribute positively to the realisation of good projects in all parts of the country. The regional research funds shall contribute to the long-term, fundamental build-up of competences in relevant research environments and thus contribute to the improvement of research quality. The Fund shall meet the R & D needs of the counties by supporting R & D projects proposed by private or public enterprises located within or outside the geographical impact fields of the Fund. At the same time, funds need to be allocated to the development of good and competitive research environments in all counties. This is a new measure that could give rise to both research and regional development. The research funds are an important instrument in administrative reform, and the red-green government has the ambition to strengthen research across the country. On my own account, I have to say that the Centre Party believes that regional projects, driven by a local need and based on regional competence environments, will be an important driver in innovation both in business and in the development of welfare services. Regional research funds will play a key role here. I also register, say, whether there are different opinions in the debate today, that the message is mainly well received in the public and in many environments. The opposition has a clear need to say that they are dissatisfied, but my impression is that the research report is standing in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2040	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2043	The rapporteur initially said that research is very international in its character. It's not surprising that the Central Party's representative spends a lot of time on the regional part of the research. But it's pretty important to put it into an international perspective. 99 pst. research takes place outside the borders of the country, and much of the research we benefit from is done there. In the vote, there is a very strong support for Norwegian research related to Europe, including the need to ensure that we are brought into line with, among other things. ERA, which is the open internal market for research. Does the representative of the Central Party also agree with that remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2056	I agree, and now I think it fits to have two thoughts in my head at the same time. If we are going to be concerned about the region in Norway, we also need to look beyond it. We contribute a lot in terms of membership fees, e.g. in the EU, and therefore it is important that we also get something back. We got a very good count in the 6th EU Framework Programme. In fact, I believe that it is important that we participate in this program, and so the message does say that we will evaluate this in the long term. But that we're getting the best out of the EU system, I think it's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2061	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2065	Before I go to the punishment, I'll start with the joy. The joy was that we in the committee and during the hearing were given a clear concern about an instrumental view of research, where several of the people who met us noticed that greater emphasis was to be placed on performance and target management. Therefore, it is all the more positive that the Committee is united on the following sentence: ‘The Committee would stress that research has an intrinsic value in itself, which should not be subject to target and result management. In particular, this applies to free basic research, which is the very foundation of innovation and innovation.’.» And on the other hand, ‘The Committee will recall that societies that do not promote curiosity and the desire to know and understand lose their ability to develop.’ I would also like to show that during the hearing we had serious concerns, including: by the Research Council, among others, because of a weakened understanding of humanities and social sciences. This has led the Right, Left and Christian People's Party to stand together on two important proposals in this area. The Committee also has comments, but we also have proposals for cultural development. This humanistic dimension is almost strange that it should be necessary for a representative from the Left to talk about it as a representative of a government party like SV, but I do it anyway, because it has its heavy, factual reality, and what was carried out in the hearing was clear. So to the matter itself: the document presented, that is, the big message, has not only the opposition in Stortinget, but also all that we had during the hearing, said is a good description, but completely bare of commitments. It's not just us who say it, but everyone who's nearby says it. In fact, the government says that it is based on the research report presented in 2005, which in Stortinget got a series of heavy commitments, not least by SV’s Rolf Rikvam, who gave it strength and momentum, and created a cross-political consensus. What is the current situation is that we have got a document where there is political competition between the government parties and the opposition, but where the government parties do their utmost to pretend that there is no such competition. When we listen to everyone – most recently the Council of State in an article in the newspaper today – it's almost as if none of us from the opposition have been here for the last four years, that we haven't promoted a single proposal, that we haven't thought of a thought. This is mildly said – I will describe it parliamentaryally – subliminal behaviour. In today's vote, there are 43 proposals. There are proposals from the Left, but also from others, to set a target of 3 pst., where the Government has it in the long term. There are proposals to set targets of at least 1 pst. by public budgets by 2013. It is proposed to link this with equipment requirements, e.g. submitted by the Research Council. It is proposed to combine this with an obligatory escalation of research recruitment positions, etc. I think the reality of this is this: on Soria Moria you come out and you have fixed the same thing as you did in 2005, and then throughout this period we have a permanent glide flight, carried out by the Government in total and especially by SV. First, we have Djupedal's famous rest cutting in the basic funding of our basic research institutions. So this continues after you have returned that money. This means that you have about one missing. 400 million. kr in order not to drive too hard, and when the Government comes to the RNB, which is dealt with here in a few days, there are still 325 million missing. kr. It's actually a permanent break in the period. At the same time, we have a government that wants to strengthen research recruitment. The government announces a message about this, then postpones the message and then cancels it, and then says that we will be able to speak clearly in the research message we are dealing with today. If what's said about recruitment is clear speech, the oracle in Delfi in antiquity was very clear in its statement, as we know it through sources in our historical tradition. There has become a quite remarkable situation. It would not surprise me if the Council of State had said that it is good with plague and competition, etc., but it is almost a description that we have been here for four years and have not stood for anything, that we have not promoted a single proposal, that we have not meant anything at all. It is with respect to report that policy should be reduced to a level where it should not be. The left's priorities have been clearer during this period. In fact, we have shown a willingness to give priority to research first. When it doesn't happen from the Government's side, I think it's because the Workers' Party has an unintelligible head of government who doesn't burn for this area. And then SV has had so many wishes to be given priority in budgetary negotiations that when it comes to it, it is the research that becomes the balancing item. You can then say that, so that you stand out clearly, and that it is at least possible to have a fair competition about the sizes you face in dollars and ears and in any other way. I have to say it this way: we have had a glide flight away from the obligations, and the cancellation message from the Government is the very crown of the work. The glide flow has stabilised. I would also like to ask that the vote be arranged in such a way that we can vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals. 33, 34, from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2095	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2100	I have a question to the representative from the Left for a comment. They state that it has been pointed out by the OECD that it is a weakness that Norway today has ‘a low level of long-term funding for research’. I think we agree that long-termity and predictability in most sectors that we are dealing with are important for those who are engaged in research. But when I read this, I reacted to it, because I couldn't remember the OECD saying anything about this, and then I started looking for where they could have said it. Now I've been light and well and haven't found it, so I'll ask the representative from the left if he can help me and tell me where I can find what's pointed out from the OECD.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2109	I don't have exactly that quote here, but I can stand within the quote from the Left and from the rest of the opposition. The impression I had when we were at the OECD was that it was generally important to have long-term research. It doesn't have Norway. We can only go to our neighbouring country Sweden, which has a long-term research proposition, which creates predictability over a four-year period. In the proposal submitted by the minority, we are asking for such a long-term budgeting. We don't. The government itself could do so by strengthening everything it says about ‘centres of excellence’, ‘centres of research driven innovation’, etc. It is the very struggle for long-termity that is at the heart of the document we have presented, namely the commitment, and where the opposition proposes a commitment: Left 3 pst. in 2013, and some other parties in 2015. The government has said that this commitment is a goal in the long term, so this is what creates predictability. And finally, without predictability in terms of basic funding at universities, there will be a race for what to cut first — the research or the quality of teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2118	In the last period, the Left took part in a minority government that accepted cut in climate and environmental research in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. Among other things, you cut 60 million. kr in the 2003 budget. During this period, we have seen higher growth in research than when Left put in government, we have strengthened research, we have strengthened student welfare, and we have strengthened climate research. It is then difficult to understand why the Left, as an environmental party, will replace a red-green, climate-friendly and knowledge-rich knowledge policy with a government alternative that historically leads to cutting environmental and climate research. So the question is: can Dørum clarify why the Left – with the experience they've gained – turns to the Right and the Advance Party when they're going to find alliance partners in research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2125	As far as research policy and the Progress Party are concerned, as today, I actually agree. As far as government is concerned, the representative knows that it is out of date – that we are with the Right and the Christian People's Party is well known. Both the Bondevik I and Bondevik II governments – with the government councils Lilletun and Clamet – presented research messages that were received very positively throughout the country, also with enthusiasm in the Stortinget. It created a expectation that it would be a pressure, and I will explain the difference. If I am now very sober and very careful when I look at the money available, the government of Bondevik II had approx. 100 billion dollars less net to route than the sitting government has. So with the amount of money you have to go with, SV can't get the research up to a level that's close to Lena Jensen's and Rolf Reikvam's commitment from 2005. But the most important thing for the Left is: research is crucial to building civilization, and it is crucial to building the unborn business. We've said in our big program that we're prioritizing it first of all of everything we're doing. We have explained in previous debates that this means that we have some painful cuts – but we give priority to research first, and that does not happen to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2134	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2137	When the government’s research report – Climate for Research – was presented on 24 April this year, I stressed that Norwegian research is good and in clear progress, and that the efforts of the red-green government in the field of research have been very good. The analysts called it a historically strong bet. I also pointed out that the one-sided emphasis that has been on measuring research efforts as a percentage of GDP within a given year has given a rather poor picture of both the results of research and the needs of research. The 3 pst target, including the 1 pst target for public research, is not a good enough governance tool for research policy. The government therefore proposes that we no longer use percentage targets as a governance instrument, but instead steer according to nine research policy objectives. Five of the objectives are thematic: research shall contribute to meeting global challenges, contribute to the further development of the welfare society and provide the basis for tomorrow’s value creation. Here, there is a need for scientific and technological research, as well as socio-scientific and humanistic research. Four of the objectives are horizontal and measure research capability with a well-functioning research system, high-quality research, strengthening the international dimension of research, and efficient exploitation and dissemination of research resources and results. This is a new and more holistic way of measuring, and thus thinking about, and I understand that this is a change that it might take some time to convert to. Despite agreement on much of the basics, I note that the opposition has had an extremely aggressive use of language in the debate. Nothing would have been better if you had agreed more, and then of course I would have liked to see that the opposition had followed the government's way of thinking. But in my view, there is no basis for using characteristics such as ‘knowledge-political scandals’ or ‘customs diversions’ in the debate about this, even if the opposition’s description of the Government had not been correct. It's not. The NIFU STEP research institute presented its updated state budget analysis a few weeks ago, and the Stortinget is briefed on its results. This shows that research is being carried out for more than we thought in Norway. Included in the tax FUNN, the package of measures and the proposals in the revised national budget are public research efforts in 2009 of NOK 22.8 billion, corresponding to 0.94 pst. GDP. Everything thus suggests that the 2005 target of 1 pst. GDP in public research efforts is reached early in the next major period, perhaps already in 2010. I stress that we're going to have goals, but what the government's going away from is the year-end fixation of the goal. But the goal is there as an ambition. Many variants of the opposition's proposals for escalating plans to reach 1 pst. GDP in public research efforts in 2013 appears to be both weak and meaningless. But much more important is the recognition that there are poor objectives for research, and that does not say anything about content or quality. I also observe that there is no longer much left of the content of the research policy when for four years one has discussed and hammered loosely that the government has not done enough, and attached this almost exclusively to the distance to the 3pst. goal. When it turns out that the opposition claims are not supported by the figures provided, there is little substance left. When I read the opposition's comments on the research report, I have the impression that the less they have of substance policy, the more and stronger words are used. But let me explain the government's policy. Research is the most important tool we have to find answers to societal challenges, and to develop ourselves and society further. We need new knowledge as a basis for important decisions. As a research minister, I have great ambitions for research, and I have delivered. The Research Communication Climate for Research describes the ambitions, and the figures from the Government's research efforts speak their clear language. But unlike before, the ambitions are not just about how much money research is going to spend, but also about what research is going to do. The main long-termity of research is that the Government commits itself to achieving the research policy objectives. This means that research efforts must continue to increase in the coming years. It is also stated in white in the communication and is a very strong commitment. The government will continue to increase research funding in the years to come. Three key themes are there to create the good research system we rely on: The good minds are the key prerequisite for good research. With 1 244 graduates, we are well above the target of 1 100 per. year from 2010. But the government will continue and reach the level of our best neighboring country. Timely scientific equipment is a prerequisite for exploiting the competence of society. I am pleased that we have put in place a mechanism for funding scientific equipment in the Research Fund. This provides long-term and developmental opportunities. Basic research is the basis for everything else we do in research. The government will therefore create greater room for research and research-initiated research. This is in recognition of the fact that the research system must be able to answer the questions that we did not even know we should have asked. I would like to conclude that we have submitted a message in which the content has received general agreement. It's a discussion of the strategies, but the government has an ambitious research policy. We will continue to deliver, and that gives good hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2176	The 3 pst. goal has become a topic in this debate, naturally enough. That's a reason for that, it's precisely because the government itself is warning in the message that they're pushing it out in the long term. Then we experience that there is a financial crisis that is actually far on the way to saving the government, and perhaps the goal is still achieved something earlier. Had we had a reduced oil and gas extraction, as SV has ordered, we might have overfilled the target. But that's not the basis for my question. My question is about the regional research funds that the Government is addressing. So when we get funds, the government chooses to spread them out. Does the Council of State not see that there may be a point that the opposition is saying, that this will fragment research policy and that we can get the focus away from quality, that there will be regional policy considerations that weigh more heavily, and that it will also be able to give us challenges in relation to stability?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2184	What the representative said about the 3 pst. goal illustrates very well how difficult such a goal is to deal with it. That's why we want to measure the research in other ways. As far as regional research funds are concerned, I cannot help but understand that the Progress Party must also see the possibility of strengthening research within the regional systems being built up. After all, we have anchored the professional responsibility for the research funds in the professional environments of both the Research Council and the Ministry of Knowledge. I am very sure that this is going to be a good stimulus for regional development and for regional business, and that it will be a good cause for just business and for example. the administrative activities of the regions. They also need research, and there does not have to be research that exists only within each region. It may go beyond borders both to other regions and to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2191	The less ‘substance policy’, the tougher the use of words from the opposition, the Council of State said in its speech. Then you can wonder where the substance of the article in today’s Newspaper, which the Council of State has signed, is. Governments write: ‘I have not registered any proposals of importance from the opposition.’ I would remind you that there are 43 specific proposals. The opposition is creating the research message that the Government has not created. We're making the escalation and the commitment that the government hasn't made. In the message, the department writes that we're adding base to the continuation of 5 pst. annual real growth in the next period. Since the government has not been willing to commit itself either through the message or what has been said so far, I ask again: can the council of state from the Great Britain's pulpit guarantee that it will be 5 pst. annual real growth in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2203	The main commitment in relation to research efforts lies in two aspects: following the research policy objectives in the five key thematic areas and the four horizontal objectives of enhancing research capacity. We have shown this that we are delivering, and we clearly say in the research report that growth should continue. The growth we've had has been quite right at 5 pst. And that's a historically good growth. It is in this trend that we will continue to increase the growth of the research budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2208	Without binding targets, access to resources is difficult. If the 1 pst. goal is now the same around the corner, why didn't we see an effort from the government parties here in the Stortinge relative to how we're going to achieve the entire 3 pst. goal and go with us the business and get this in place? Why was it only when NIFU STEP came to embrace the 1 pst target? Now it's 12 years since I was in this room for the first time. There are two debates that I think are difficult to reach across kindergartens and older people who need nursing homes, and this is about assistance and research. Does the Council not see that having such an obligating plan with her when she is sitting at the table – if she is allowed to – and negotiating the budget once more would have been a help?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2215	We're right where the aid target is. It's not the anniversary party either. We have a vision -- the percentage goal is there as a vision that's just something to reach for. But we don't want to attach it to a year. We've proved in many ways that it's going to be a pretty unfinished and incomplete way of measuring research. For this reason, our proposal – which we regret is not included in the opposition – is to target the research policy objectives: five thematic and four cross-cutting objectives. This image is what we're going to measure the research after. Then we will have a debate on the content of research, what we are going to do, and the quality of research, that is, our ability to research through, for example. recruitment and equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2222	An old word says that it's better with one bird in hand than ten on the roof: it's this glide flight, these 3 percent that was supposed to be reached in 2010, and that has suddenly become in the long term. Usually when I meet SV politicians who are fighting for an aid target, it is not in the long term. When I hear State Council Solheim talk about Kyoto targets, it is not in the long term. When I hear the Government provide documents on the national transport plan, these are quite concrete figures. What makes it so difficult to commit? I'm going to go back to the question from Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, because ‘to base’ is the formulation you get in a government conference when you don't get the commitment. But that's absolutely right – we can test the Council's answers here in Stortinget. Now, can the council say that we have it as a binding measure from the red-green government that we're going to get at least 5 pst. Real growth in research in the coming years – can we hear it from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2229	For this Council of States, it is important to follow up both what we have delivered and the ambitions we have. That's why the goal is important to me. I don't want to attach it to years, because it'll be much better for me if we reach it sooner than if we have to wait a long time to reach it. I want to be ambitious and impatient about achieving the goal, but what I want the debate to be about is: in what areas are we going to make long-term? It's climate, it's welfare development and it's business development. That is why we must have objectives both for public service and for business. So that's how a goal works very well. But in order to assess research and measure research in the more short term, we need to have a more complete target view. So then we complement having important ambitions and visions with a research policy objective that is about both the topic and the strengthening of the research section. I have ambitions that this will be followed up in the same good way that the Government has done up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2236	It was an interesting reasoning that the government would not set itself specific goals, because it might have achieved its goals earlier. I notice that statement! I have also noticed that the Council of State in today's newspaper believes that she is struggling with an unrelenting opposition. So this unresponsive opposition has promoted 43 minority proposals, 31 proposals are an overall opposition behind them. When the Council of State in the same post criticises the opposition to focus on percentages, she says that soon we have reached the 1 pst. goal. She doesn't say it's very long before one reaches the 3pst. goal. If we had a government council that was ambitious on behalf of research and the public research share, she would have supported research environments today that want one to have the public research share up to 1.4 p.m., as proposed by the Progress Party in the nomination. I could imagine asking the Council of State for two things – no, I ask one question: why will the Council of State not contribute to the public research increase to 1.4 pst. by 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2245	This state council doesn't want to commit to any percentage in a certain year. This Council of States wants to continue the ambitious investment in research that we in this government have had – and we have delivered. The question that Anundsen may not have asked me, makes me add a little more to what the others have also been about. Clearly, it is also important to motivate business to do its part of research, and it will continue to be important. Whether we measure in percent of GDP or what we do, business needs to research, especially in times of crisis. We do this by strengthening tools related to business research, both nutrition and tax FUNN. I only mention two of the arrangements that we have, but we do what we can, both to increase the public effort in research, which is important, for which we have absolute ambitions, and also to motivate business to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2254	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2257	Today's research is tomorrow's knowledge and innovations. The Research Communication is clear about the challenges we face, the areas in which it is important to focus and how to do so: climate, health, well-being and business-related research characterised by quality, resource utilisation and internationalisation. There are clear objectives and a good direction for Norwegian research policy, and I do not believe that there is much disagreement about these objectives and the direction among the parties here at Stortinget. The opposition has little alternative in terms of bet areas. It is good that we have a broad focus on the research policy objectives. After hearing the debate and the speeches from the opposition now, there is one thing that strikes me: hack in the disc. Both what the opposition writes in the setting, and what they repeat here on the speaker's chair, have the impression that they haven't been able to change. I record that the opposition will reach the 1 pst goal in 2013. We have been described several times before. It looks like we can achieve that goal earlier, maybe already in 2010 if we continue to increase the appropriations for research as the red-green government has done, and to be despicable from the previous government: as they did in part in their period, even though 38 pst. growth can hardly be said to be half of a hundred, at least not by my way of calculating. The percentage is now fixed, as at the time of the notification – as a target. However, the Labour Party maintains that the percentage of GDP is not an adequate target for research. Therefore, the message outlines other resource indicators and performance targets. We have to look at more than input. Research has its own value, but it must also be allowed to look at the results and benefits of research. The reason is not that we are ashamed of our own efforts. We've been following up the priorities of the previous big shot, which was also very much agreed among the parties. We have increased the funding for research, we have strengthened the Research Fund, we have established a regional research fund, and together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, we have set bold targets for the future's climate action. The last 2005 budget of the Bondevik II government is often drawn by the opposition in the position and here in the Chamber. It must be allowed to ask what they spent their four years on, when the budget they provided after they had lost the election and were going to be in opposition, is what is being drawn out. I will not draw out what the Workers' Party has done in opposition. We leave the results of the last four years as what we're measured on, and there we've delivered better than the previous government. There are many things about this message it could have been interesting and commented on in more detail, but I'm just reaching something. Health research has been strong in Norway, and it will be an important priority in the future. Health research brings us on, it saves lives and gives new hope to many. An example is the possibility of CI implants, with which the Committee has become well aware in the work on alternative complementary communication. One thing that will be crucial in the future is to reduce social health inequalities. We can't be aware that health inequalities are increasing. In this context, increased efforts and interdisciplinary research needs to be made. Discrimination is particularly important when we know that the basis for good health is largely excluded from the health and care sector. Prevention is one key element, which will also be important in the forthcoming cooperation reform. My grandchildren will not judge us by how we, today's politicians, managed the financial crisis in 2009. They will judge us by how we handled global warming and climate challenges. We know a lot about the consequences of global warming, but we need more knowledge about the consequences and not least about the solutions to the challenges. This is an international responsibility, but Norway has competences that are world leaders in renewable energy, carbon capture and storage and marine research, to mention something. We need to exploit the expertise we have in both the UH sector, the institute sector and the business community. The government is following up the climate agreement and rates of climate research and development. Finally, this research report shows that the Government takes research policy very seriously. The figures' speech also tells us that the government is following up with appropriations, and so will it in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2279	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2282	The northern regions have been one of the main areas of activity of this government. The government rates in the north because it gives Norway enormous opportunities to take the lead in a region that in the years to come will be subject to a strong international focus because here we manage one of the world's most resource-rich areas. Knowledge and research are the basis for understanding what is happening in Arctic regions. Norway has internationally leading research environments in petroleum activities, maritime transport, exploitation and management of marine resources. Research on environmental protection, climate and polar research has been strongly pursued in recent years. Knowledge of the North tells us how we best manage the Arctic climate, how we best exploit the resources and how we create values. The location of Svalbard in an easily accessible high Arctic area offers unique opportunities for scientific research, including research into climate change and monitoring of the marine and atmospheric environment. Research is one of the most important activities in Svalbard and is an important contribution to the settlement and management of the archipelago. There's been a massive bet on Svalbard. In the International Polar Year, there was a total of 320 million. DK granted over four years. On the Polar Year website we read: ‘The efforts of at least 50 000 researchers and technicians from well over 60 countries make the Polar Year 2007-2008 the largest international research programme ever. Norway and Norwegian researchers will make substantial contributions.’ In the state budget for the current year, 8 million were allocated. kr to a new ice-going research vessel. This is to be served by the Norwegian Polar Institute, the Marine Research Institute and the University of Tromsø. The ship will be able to cover all research disciplines in biology, oceanography, climate and geology by means of a wide range of scientific equipment and a large number of laboratories on board. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that in the 2008 state budget, the Norwegian Polar Institute received 22 million. kr to the Centre for Climate, Ice and Ecosystems. The Centre shall contribute to enhanced research on climate and ice-dependent species. Furthermore, the current year was granted 35 million. SEK for research-oriented infrastructure and 15 million. to cooperation on research and development in industry. – These are research activities across the borders of Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. There is no doubt that this government is following up the North Region initiative and that research is an important part of it. It is worth noting in particular in this debate – I have also seen that in the vote – that the opposition does not want a new research message. By promoting a new notification, the Government has been briefed on new areas of activity and reviewed where Norway stands for research. We are the first government to reach the percentage in culture, aid and probably research!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2304	This is the government that goes into history to want to focus results on basic research, forget business research and weaken the requirements for itself. We are dealing with a big message where the demands of the researcher are increasing, while the government itself is doing what it can to run away from the goals. It's better not to stretch, to use the words of another Council of State. It is amazing that the Council of State in its statement does not mention nutrient research, but is concerned with the 1 pst target that has been redefined and that contains SEK 1.1 billion in the proceeds of the TaxFUNN. That's a whole new way of thinking about it. Most of the research needs to justify itself with results that mean something to future growth and well-being. If we are to succeed, the importance of interaction between different environments, the risks involved, and the knowledge and skills required to succeed must be understood. Much indicates that the government is far from breaking the code. The socio-economic profitability of research is higher than the business economy, but it is not discussed or the Government does not take it into account. What that means, is that without state stimulus, Business Norway will be researching less than the Norwegian community is served. And that's exactly where we are! The Communication mentions Global Maritime Knowledge Hub, but there will not be one initiative to stimulate such interactions. Therefore: Join the opposition's proposals on taxes, gifts and other matters in this area! Unfortunately, the government has a long way to go. It is remarkable in the light of the signals in the Communication on a National Strategy for the Commercialisation of Research Results that these challenges have not been addressed. The FORNY programme and the TTO activity are important initiatives. We must succeed in raising research results to and from a market. That's where we have challenges. NIFU STEP shows that the system is falsifying to find its shape. It's fragmented, without specialization, and it's given me a message of results so far. Growing enterprises are few, and far fewer than in most other countries with similar investment. And it is here that it is quite critical that the Government does not see capital as anything other than what creates “riches”. Where the risk is high and the development time is long, equity, and especially competent capital, is a key input. No one today knows what succeeds tomorrow, the selection is difficult, and no one is given to pick just winners. Diversity is needed here, and interactions between capital and entrepreneurial and academic environments are needed here. These are challenges in which the state cannot replace diversity. This government has been floating on the last government and the Clement ambitions. Now, unfortunately, they've done "can't be done" to weaken them. This is particularly evident in business research, and it will be exciting to follow developments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2321	In uncertain times that we now have, having innovative businesses is more important than ever. It is then important that we have a government that facilitates innovation and innovation in society. Because it's the companies and the value they stand for, which is the basis of our well-being. Earlier this winter, we're dealing with the Government's innovation message, and now it's the research message. And as the message shows, there is a clear connection between these two things. This government has invested in research. In nutrition research, over $2.1 billion is spent this year. In comparison, the Bondevik II government spent $1.3 billion on its last budget, which is $800 million. kr less. The government has, through the many measures to reduce the impact of the international financial crisis, started to take action that will, among other things, reduce the impact of the international financial crisis. can use crises to create future jobs. The food policy instrument, which is now experiencing high demand, has been strengthened. Distinguishing PhD. is a good example of what this government has done, and today's Business Today we can read about Geir Birkedal who is now taking his doctorate at work, which is possible since the Research Council contributed to funding. He's content, and the company's content with the scheme, and that leads to the company being given the right to retain the competence in times of redundancy and lay-offs. As stated in the option: «the scheme builds up the long-term research capacity of industry and strengthens cooperation between industry and academia.» [[...]] This is very important in today’s knowledge economy. TAX FUNN is another system that is very good, and that gives results. The system is targeted, effective and unbureaucratic. The best thing is that it seems that even companies that have not traditionally engaged in research and development are now more interested in it. I would like to mention that the tax FUNN ceiling has increased to 5.5 million. kr for custom R & D and for 11 mill. for the purchase of R & D. Innovation, research and innovation in traditional industries I see as very important. In many communities, there is a high level of industrial competence and an important environment for research and innovation. This competence must be used to create new processes and products. One example of this is in Årdal, where they at Hydro work every day to improve their processes. Producing aluminium with less power consumption and less pollution is a preliminary project here in Norway. These are examples of how industry is developing through research, development and innovation towards a more viable production.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2343	In order to strengthen Norwegian business and to provide the basis for industrial development and new activities, it is very important that both industry and the public sector give priority to research and development. Both industry and the public sector need new knowledge. It is therefore important to give priority to measures that stimulate increased R & D in business, including: through the public instrumentation. Strengthening nutritional rights as a user-driven research programme is important in this way, and I am not least thinking about the User-driven Innovation Arena – BIA – which aims to stimulate research-driven innovation in industry, for example. in the fields of biotechnology, ICT and environmental technologies. It is totally wrong when the representative of Gunnar Gundersen claims that the Government has forgotten the nutrition right to research. There has been a good development in this period. IFU and OFU contracts are also important tools that support innovative projects between customers and suppliers across the country. The TaxFUNN scheme is another good and popular tool that contributes to increased research efforts in business, and I am therefore satisfied that the Government determines that this scheme should be passed on. It's a fact that 99 pst. of the world's research takes place abroad, and the majority of new products and processes have an international origin. It is therefore important for us from Norway to participate actively in international arenas for knowledge, challenge and research. I am busy that the state through the public toolkit contributed to the fact that research results from the Norwegian research community can lead to business activity here in the country. New instruments that can lead to this should be considered, possibly further strengthening of existing tools, so that research can lead to increased value creation and new jobs. I share the Government's view that research is important to further develop good and efficient public services and ensure that the public sector benefits from its own, but also from the experience of others, especially its users. I have noticed that the Government will consider increasing the use of user-driven research and piloting projects with research participation in public enterprises, and I am pleased about that. There is a high value creation potential in innovation and product development in the health and care sectors. That's why I'm happy that the Government will give priority to medical research. Then I will bring out the Norwegian company PhotoCure, which was founded in 1993 by the Radium Hospital, to continue research that was developed at the hospital. PhotoCure has used various public schemes, including: public research and development contracts to build up the company. This is today a company that competes on the international market. I see it as important that this kind of bud shooting be provided and that the public tool can contribute to it. I am also aware that the financial instruments for commercialisation are perceived to be inadequate and that better mechanisms are required to carry products from medical research to the market. Here we have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2360	Today's debate is a reprisal of all the debates we have had on research during this major period. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, spent all his time hammering on the percentage goal and making accusations about the lack of ambition in the field of research of the red-green majority. In the course of a ten-minute long article, she once showed that excellent research is actually taking place in Norway. It is alarming that the Right at all does not suggest that Norway has a well-developed research system, and that Norwegian research is progressing both in scale and quality. Nor did the new and expanded research objectives that this communication promotes, as much as one word. It's not to understand from a party that says they're engaged in research, and wants to promote it. The communication is clear and clear that research will be prioritised in future budgets. The budgets shall be set up in such a way as to build on the nine research policy objectives and to provide coherence between objectives, announced actions and actual allocation of resources in the annual budgets. When you listen to the Right, and to the Left, too, in today's debate, you can get a sense that the entire research effort of NOK 22.8 billion has been cancelled in 2009. It is disappointing, and it does not contribute to raising Norwegian research up and down. It can be seen from the opposition today as if we've embraced the 1 pst goal when it looks like we're actually reaching it in 2010. That's not true. Today, in the newspaper, the Minister for Research is preparing his view: ‘I have consistently argued that the strong attention to the percentage target creates an unrealistic picture of the actual research effort.’ I fully support the views of the Council of State. But it's probably too much to expect the discussion to come out of this fixed percentage line in this last debate on research during this major period. We're going to continue to have ambitions on behalf of research. We are going to bring forward all the excellent research environments we have, and continue our efforts within the important objectives set out in this Communication, which have been highlighted by the red-green representatives in the debate today. The opposition lacks total ability to discuss the content of the research. But we're going to live with it, and we notice with interest that of the 43 proposals promoted by the opposition today, almost everyone is about money. It's been like this for the whole period. Content and results have not been of interest at all. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2380	There has been a remarkable argument from the government parties. It's said about the left and the other parties that we're not concerned with the content. The content is carried out by the researchers. The content is carried out in the research institutions. The content is described in the 2005 Storing Communication. This content has been confirmed today. Why are we fighting for money? About every single group that we've been consulting for four years says they have all the content. They have all the objectives, but they lack to fill the instruments with the money needed, whether they are user-driven innovation arenas, R & D contracts, SkattenFUNN, obliging basic funding to universities, committed institute funding, long-term financing to ensure scholarship holders, long-term financing to secure equipment or committed objectives both at industry level and in the public sector. That's why it's a fight for money. All policy-makers know that the nature of policy is not just about content but also about how resources are prioritised. What is at the heart of this debate is that the government parties, with the government council at the head, have a massive smoking manoeuvre to avoid saying that this is a field in which you really don't commit. I get that on behalf of the Left only. It's like this. Even I think it's like this for two reasons: the government doesn't have back coverage in the government. The government is responsible for that. Governments don't have back coverage because her own party has so many priorities that research doesn't come to the top of that list. Then you don't have to attack us because we have ambitions on behalf of something. The left for its part has had those ambitions for quite a long time, both before a previous government, in a former government and afterwards. We're holding on to it. The dividing lines are real. It's clear that when the government makes the economic goal a kind of moving goal, with which we can't even get in touch, it's not so strange that we get a pressure around this particular thing. It's not that the Left and other opposition parties are alone to mean this. About all of us at the hearings, student organisations and professionals in the sector expressed the exact same fact that this is a big deal that lacks commitment. We talk on behalf of a broad public, and it's our job to do it. Then I have a wonder, as I had in the committee. I'd like to repeat it in plenary. The left has promoted a proposal to rethink the law on shares, proposal No. 25-digit number I would like to point out the views of the Council of State on that very proposal, and hear if the sympathy that I might well have had with the governing parties in the committee, can also be present in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2391	It was a violent ointment from the case rapporteur, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, at the very end of the debate. She accuses Right and other opposition parties of total lack of ability to discuss the content of research. Then it's quite funny that the government parties have not been willing to be with either the Right Party or the other opposition parties on discussing fellows, to discuss post.doc, to discuss equipment, to discuss escalation, research ethics, the Research Fund or even artistic development. None of those points are the Government interested in going into. All opposition parties find it very strange that it has not been possible for the Government to commit itself to the least in relation to what was in the message. On 6 May the Committee received a letter from its seven university rectors. It made a certain impression. They write: ‘Greater message No. However, the climate for research, as it is now available, does not constitute a step forward for Norwegian research. The absence of binding contingency plans for the financing of research raises major concerns and expresses a lack of ambition and willingness to implement by Norwegian authorities which are inadvertising to the research.’ It is probably not possible to say it much stronger. While we're in the discussion about money and goals, it's very interesting how the government parties have begun to embrace this 1 pst goal, now that it's starting to move closer. But the reality is that the way they're raining now includes $1.1 billion in revenue from the Tax Fund. Subject to the fact that I remember very little error in the number, I believe that during the previous government period we had a sample surface from SkattenFUNN at approx. DKr 1.6 billion. We never calculated that into the percentage. It now wants the government to factor in the percentage. There is just one of the critical points the opposition parties have promoted against the Government, that they are now going to start counting and counting in other ways to decorate the result and make it look better. But there won't be any more money to research it. That's just another way of counting. I think it's quite remarkable that what the government is now saying is that they reach the goal of, i.e. 1 billion more, coincident with including the sample surface in the Tax Fund. As long as that's the case, it's basically just a little bit of a joke about numbers, because there's no more money for research, there's just another way to figure out. There are many things that have been mentioned here, including: the long-termity of research and research appropriations. To put it that way: the long-termity of the Research Fund was guaranteed until the red-green government began to mess with how to use the fund return. Today, the return of the Research Fund for all practical purposes, almost a purely operational fund, which is used to pay the quota in the 7th Framework Programme of the European Union, is to pay scholarship holders, the International Polar Year – things for which it was never intended to be used. Of course, it helps to weaken long-term sustainability, weaken predictability and weaken future research funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2409	Research is investment in future well-being, whether it is to create ground for growth and new jobs, or it is to achieve better health when we research into new drugs and new knowledge about how to cure and prevent disease. The government's beautiful words about the northern regions are put to a hard test with the research report. Big visions aren't going to be worth a penny. SV's ham change and role in the research debate are particularly noteworthy. In the opposition, the party was the propellant for more to research. In the majority position, Finance Minister and SV leader Kristin Halvorsen acts more cleverly and restrained than the greedy Uncle Skrue. Ole Brumm has obviously left SV in the woods somewhere. The research message met with the greatest expectations, and the disappointment was all the greater when the content became known. Diffus, unambicious and non-committal are characteristics that go back into academic environments. Knowledge shall be at the hub of the Northern Region policy. It is one of the government's mantra, which was once again underlined when «New building blocks in the north» were presented in winter. The point is that such a vision becomes worthless with the government's resting edge and cut into the budgets of the university and higher education sector in North Norway. After receiving the research report, the closest question is: how can such an ambitious research report give rise to research in the north? Instead of building up, the government has held back and built down. And when the Government distances itself from the 3pst goal, there's every reason to fear that many individual researchers and institutions instead of getting expected budget growth need to put planned research projects on ice. Now, obviously, the election campaign is going on. The Prime Minister has been in Finnmark and distributed 175 million. kr for research in the north. The government's move-and-make policy testifies to a lack of understanding of the need for predictability and long-termity in the field of research. In North Norway there are a number of highly competent research environments, and Tromsø is home to world-class environments. To the right, Norway believes that it has a clear global commitment to contribute to providing the world’s population with more food – I think of the marine sector – and new medicines. It requires research efforts of a very different magnitude than the one proposed by the Government, and Norway can afford this. Right will turn down to the rise of Norwegian research, because it will ensure future generations of work and the high standard of living we enjoy today. With its enormous oil wealth, Norway has better conditions than most other countries to lift the research sector. In view of this, it is mysterious why the Government does not take any interest in the research report. On the right, more research on the north will take place in the north. Right has research as one of its highest priority areas, simply because it's irresponsible not to do so. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about today’s government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2436	I think it's strange how the opposition parties are constantly going to weaken the value of the clear statement from the Government that we are going to continue a historic growth in the research and development appropriations. It's the analyst's environment that itself has called the growth historic. It has been formidable from year to year in the time of this government. This growth will continue and, of course, will help to finance both important initiatives in the north, important interactions between academia and business, for example. Innovation and other important activities that stimulate business to research and a whole range of other objectives set out in this research Communication. I understand that it is difficult to convert the idea from being exclusively concerned with this percentage, which has also become a major part of the discussion here today, with many different and slightly confusing approaches, and to also deal with measuring research on what we really are doing, and on the quality of research. We're not going away from being measured by percent. It's going to happen in the future too, but most countries have done just as we have: maintain the ambition, but not the centenary. Then it will be up to any ambitious minister of research and government to follow up with funds every single fiscal year for research effort as necessary. The money is there, and the government's commitment lies in the research policy objectives and in the clear statement that the growth that has taken place will continue. The Gundersen may not have heard well after he heard me, including the replacement of lines, because I actually said a good deal about business research, and believe that of course it is a very important part of our total research effort. It still has to be. As far as the challenge from Dørum is concerned, it is right that we have looked at the one proposal, No. 25, which is about strengthening legal protection for entrepreneurs and investors in start-up companies. Actually, it would have been a matter of discussion in the context of an innovation message, but I think it's perfectly okay that we also have it in a discussion about research, also because we see research and innovation as two important aspects of the same whole. I would like to remind you that we actually took the initiative recently to set up a legal committee to assess a simplified share law or accounting law for micro-liability companies. It may be part of this, and I would also like to remind you that we want flexibility and not necessarily to have unnecessary restrictions in relation to the share law and business there. But I would like the opposition to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal, and I would like to see a chance in the Government to assess this in more detail. I would also like to thank you for the debate, which has, of course, been characterised by a slightly different view. But I am quite concerned that we are united on the content of research and the important content of the research policy objectives, and at least this government is going to make sure that we follow up, including with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2451	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2455	Let it be a battle where there shall be strife, and let it be peace where there may be peace. Following the statements of the Council of State now, I will re-examine proposal No. 25 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2460	It's noted. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[See page 3888]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2479	The Foreign Affairs Committee has examined the annual monitoring report on exports of defence equipment from Norway, export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. I am pleased that the Committee's position is also unanimous this time. The notification sets out Norwegian export controls of weapons, ammunition and other military and multifunctional goods. It also mentions the volume of exports in 2008 of both defence equipment and services and technology related to these products. The Foreign Affairs Committee is in favour of the subsequent transparency of exports of defence equipment and is satisfied that there is ongoing review of the possibilities for further transparency in the processes around it. The value of exports in 2008 increased in relation to the previous year, and the variations we see from year to year are mainly related to the time when individual deliveries take place. The production and export of defence equipment represents a significant value creation for the country, and it is also important to mention that the defence industry also contributes to the development of technologies that can in many cases be used civilly. The main beneficiaries of Norwegian defence equipment are NATO member countries, Nordic countries and other related countries. From the Norwegian side, strict export control legislation is practised and continuous work is carried out in the Ministry to ensure that the legislation is always timely and effective. The Foreign Affairs Committee has underlined the need to make available at all times the necessary capacity and competence to prevent breaches of export control legislation and to ensure the proper handling of licence applications. The Committee unanimously adopted a progress plan to deal with this matter before the holidays. Shortly before the discharge, the members of the Committee received written observations and a request for consultation. On the basis of the unanimously agreed progress plan, that written material had been made known to the members of the Committee and, last but not least, that extensive consultations had been held on these issues in winter, the majority of the Committee found that this could not be met. The Committee is aware that several organisations wish to introduce mandatory retail declarations for all recipients of Norwegian defence equipment. We are also aware of the desire for better parliamentary control of Norwegian arms exports, and many refer to the Swedish model in this way. We therefore ask the Government to take this into account in its ongoing work to improve the export control legislation. We have pointed out in previous submissions that strict requirements need to be imposed on the human rights situation in the recipient countries concerned in order to assess the application for an export licence. The government has now followed this up by clarifying the consideration of human rights in the guidelines. Like the Government, the Foreign Affairs Committee supports the development of closer cooperation in international forums in order to improve control of conventional weapons, small arms, light weapons and related ammunition. The work being done within international forums to reach an agreement on a legally binding instrument for the marking and tracing of small arms is particularly important. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who have helped us to deal with a unanimous position this time too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2500	It's only been six months since we last dealt with a big message on exports of defence equipment and international non-proliferation work. It was a round where we had quite extensive consultations, and the Committee also referred to the communication that was discussed at the time, in other words, together with another communication, St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008, on Disarmament and Non-Proliferation. I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Vaksdal, not only for this setting, but for settings for all the four years we have had these export messages. Every time he has contributed to unanimous voting, and there has been a very constructive cooperation on an area that is difficult, but where we have managed to agree. I would also like to pay tribute to the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the work done in this four-year period on human rights issues. It is about respecting international humanitarian law and combating attempts to undermine it, and it is about humanitarian disarmament to protect civilians from being killed or maimed. The Mines Convention, the Classammunition Convention and measures against Armed Violence and Armed Forces fall within the scope of Norwegian humanitarian disarmament. In particular, this applies to the porting of the Classammunition Convention. Who had believed in the fall of 2005 that this was possible? But Norway did it. It's important when we know that more than 2 million people die each year or are paralyzed by so-called armed violence, that is. of mines, explosives, bulk ammunition and hand weapons. Therefore, like the Government, the Committee will express its support for closer international cooperation on better control of conventional weapons, in particular small arms and light weapons, and their ammunition. And as the rapporteur stressed, the work done within the relevant international forums to reach an agreement on a legally binding instrument for the marking and tracing of small arms is also very important given the sufferings caused by the use of small arms. I am also aware that Norway is active, among others. in the United Nations system on this issue. Then I point out that when dealing with the previous notification, a unanimous committee asked the Government to consider introducing new rules for the labelling of ammunition so that the ammunition would be easier to trace. Many believe that small arms are the real weapons of mass destruction, especially in the hands of violent rebel groups or unstable regimes. Norway has one of the world’s most stringent control regimes for exports of defence equipment. Let me also underline the clarification of the human rights situation of the recipient countries that was introduced into the 2007 legislation. As a result, it is not open to the export of A-materials to Saudi Arabia, a country with many and gross violations of human rights. The Committee also requests the evaluation of measures to ensure that Norwegian weapons do not compromise. I would also point out that the notification states that the export of defence equipment between NATO countries is based on a long-term foreign, security and defence policy, in which supplies of material are anchored in agreements and long-term practices. It includes a stable trust relationship where recipients do not resell material purchased in Norway. Can I add that the percentage increase in exports of defence equipment is also concerned with repurchase agreements, with multinational cooperation on development and acquisition that is becoming increasingly crucial to ensuring a viable industry. These may often be technological equipment, which, when Kongsberg is to provide air defence surveillance equipment in Helsinki, or when the new factory, including at Kongsberg, is to produce composite parts for the fighter aircraft Joint Strike Fighter. Export statistics on defence equipment will be reflected when they are to be shipped to the United States. Finally, I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for greater transparency and transparency in these matters. As the rapporteur stressed, we have had a gradual increase in transparency about all kinds of issues relating to the export of weapons and other defence equipment, and the Government has been committed to providing maximum transparency in the export of such material. I would also like to commend the fact that this year the U.D. invited the press and non-governmental organisations to a meeting to present and discuss the content of the communication. It is important that Norway participates actively in the comprehensive international cooperation established in the field of export control and non-proliferation. There is also a goal to work for greater transparency also on international arms trafficking. Norway is a member of all international export control regimes. The fact that Norway has submitted an annual report on our exports since 1996 is a good starting point for us to have an active role in making other countries more transparent in their exports. I'm pleased that the government will continue such a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2532	The government wants maximum transparency in the execution of defence equipment. The size will also take hold and will ensure maximum transparency. If we're going to get it into practice, we need more control, and I'm going to come back to it a little later. Always when we're discussing these things, it's going to be a bit of a pain in the ass, and I'm going to stand for a little bit of that jam today. Normally the message will be very late, and we will deal with it later. This year she arrived late, but we treat her quickly. And it creates some problems with organizations, with regard to getting the best treatment possible, and with respect to this with time to see. The solution lies simply in the fact that the message must come before, preferably at Easter – it may be that there is a bit of Easter krime in the message – so that there is a good time to listen, that we simply get a better and better process, and that the organisations feel even more inclusive and at least not overrun. Now I have spoken to the organizations myself today, and they claim that they are invited to the process in connection with the next message. So I feel confident that the Foreign Minister has clearly taken note of this ad notem, that things are going to get better, and that the organisations are going to come in even earlier in order to be able to contribute. So we're already working on the ATT, Arms Trade Treaty. There we can already get a little bit of a breakthrough this summer. Humanitarian law may, before summer holidays are over, have a breakthrough internationally. And I must say, I am proud of the Norwegian detainees and what the Foreign Minister is doing in this area. There's no doubt that this is where we're going. We might be able to go even further, but it's being done in an incredibly good way. In concrete terms, there may be some differences between the statistical central agency's methods of suggesting exports and those contained in the message. It may seem that something has gone out, for example: Jordan and other countries, who have not come into the message. It just shows you how important it is to be accurate in this area. I agree with the representative Nybakk who praises the Vaksdal of the Progress Party to try to compromise. There have been some compromises that I think have cost EN a bit sometimes, but in general I would say that there has probably been a good strategy, because we have good debates on these issues in the Stortinget now, and the Stortinget thank you. It is clear from the remarks that one wishes – at least one says from several quarters – to introduce more parliamentary control, to take this up in the international forums, to make stricter demands. And we know what's in the mood of all of these good comments. There are export control councils according to the Swedish model, where you can check the license from week to week, get parliamentary control of it, someone has to face it. And we know, of course, that we have to get better at the producer. Italy and Germany have it inside NATO. There's nothing wrong with getting it inside NATO. Of course, it is a dilemma when the biggest goal is that Norwegian weapons should not be present where war and conflict occur, or threaten. But we build it on a long-standing trust between the Allies and the Nordic countries. I'm not so sure we're going to build it on it anymore. I think we should build it on statements, documents and papers, so that in any case other countries can see that when Norway, which is probably the nicest in the class here, does this so accurately, other countries will also be able to follow up. We have a chance to go ahead here, and if it cost the Norwegian defence industry a few dollars, I'm not at all afraid of it. However, I believe the Norwegian defence industry will develop well and live on being good technology. They're not going to evolve further on that we're left out with the export code. I think they're going to be okay anyway, so I don't think we should be afraid of that part if we introduce even more parliamentary control. We also have a little monkey here, because of course we own parts of this defence industry. Some of it takes place in Norway – most of it takes place in Norway. But it is clear that when we have a practice that NHD partly, and we in the last round – big business, government – own businesses in the United States, in Finland, which are also going well, but which of course can also be suspected of having just created it ownership in order to partially circumvent the legislation we have, it certainly requires extra caution regarding being an active owner in these types of businesses. Then there will also be new forms of military services. We now see that we have two men sitting in Congo. What they've done, I have no idea. But the export of security services, private alarm company, etc. appears to be an emerging industry, both partially for formerly added to the Defence and others. However, it is clear that it is a service that is being produced, and of course it should then come under Norwegian export legislation. I believe that both licensing and reporting must be carried out annually about what is going on from Norwegian personnel in this way. So I think we're all interested in having a good balance between the greatest desire we have, just to be a peace nation, and that we're also a war profiter, in the way that when the translation of weapons goes up, it also goes up in Norway. But we can, I believe, get that balance even better by being even more restrictive on the control – as, of course, through export control councils and end-user declarations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2555	From the Christian People's Party, we have actively contributed to the improvements made in recent years to ensure maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment from Norway. We are pleased that there has gradually become better regulation, greater transparency and better reporting practices for the Storting. However, we can further improve the regulatory framework, both the control systems and the reporting procedures. We will contribute to that. The total value of Norwegian exports of weapons and other defence equipment last year was NOK 4.2 billion. I guess it was 17 pst. more than one year earlier. Therefore, this industry contributes to significant value creation. It also contributes to the development of technologies that can be of civil use. At the same time, developments in the international security situation show that it is more important than ever to prevent weapons from coming to a balance or in the wrong hands. This applies not only to A-materials, that is, weapons and ammunition, but also to other military material. And that is not least the control of exports of so-called multi-use products. It is important for example: to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction or destabilising weapons supplies. Good coordination in the framework of international cooperation is needed here. There are important limitations to the export of defence equipment only for the use of authorities and to the granting of licences for such exports to NATO countries, Nordic countries and other related countries authorised as recipients only if it is possible to demonstrate who is the end-user. When assessing applications for an export licence, consideration of military security is important. But it is also important to make strict demands on respect for human rights in the country in question. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen both human rights and the position of international humanitarian law in export control. We have noticed that it is not open to the export of A-materials to Saudi Arabia, a country that, according to human rights organisations, stands for many and clear violations of human rights. In the Christian People's Party, we are also very concerned about getting better control of handguns, other light weapons and ammunition. In many conflict areas, the large spread of small arms is affecting the civilian population. We also believe it is important to work actively to establish binding international law provisions on the labelling and traceability of small arms. The Christian People's Party is in good contact with representatives of civil society working to improve the regulation of exports of defence equipment, including small arms and ammunition. The consultation rounds where these organisations raise questions and postpon them are always useful. Therefore, it is regrettable that this year's announcement came so late that there was no time for consultation before the summer. The Christian People's Party and the Left have proposed, in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that the matter be postponed until the autumn in order to ensure such consultation this year. Unfortunately, it did not become a majority, but we believe it is important to ensure such consultations for the future. Apart from disagreement at this point, it is positive that the suspension by the Foreign Affairs Committee shows such broad consensus on the issues addressed. It is of great importance that the Foreign Affairs Committee has been able to ensure broad support for the guidelines on exports of defence and international non-proliferation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2574	According to St.meld. No 42 was the value of Norwegian arms exports of a total of SEK 4.2 billion in 2008. This represents a growth of 22 pst. in relation to the previous year, and it makes Norway a significant exporter of weapons, actually among the largest in the world per year. the population. We therefore have a special responsibility to make sure that weapons or weapon components manufactured in Norway are not used to violate human rights. The left believes that transparency is an important key to a good control regime. In St.meld. No 42 indicates the Government's willingness to increase transparency within the framework of Norwegian laws and regulations. In order to contribute to greater transparency, further details of exported goods, of refused licence applications and of the export of civil goods to military end-users have been provided in the year’s Communication. This is little steps in the right direction. No insight is given into the specific content of exports broken down on land. Norwegian authorities require, as a known end-user declaration, but not from allies in NATO. This is based on a long-term practice based on trust between the parties within the alliance. On the other hand, some NATO countries require an end-user declaration from their allies. However, the requirements for the end-user declaration may vary from country to country. In practice, it appears that the difference between those requiring a retail declaration and those requiring another form of documentation does not necessarily have to be so large. I therefore believe that a greater degree of coordination would have been desirable so that the rules within the alliance would be as equal as possible at this point. This will provide a simpler, more transparent and thus better arms export control. I would also like to point out that Norwegian interests, including the state, can enter businesses in other countries that may have a weaker control regime than the Norwegian one. This allows such companies to export weapons to countries that the Norwegian regime would not have allowed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recently recognised that this is a challenge linked to the Norwegian control regime. I believe that the State should use its ownership to ensure that the sale of weapons and ammunition takes place in accordance with Norwegian rules, regardless of the country in which the production takes place. In 1997, a unanimous step was taken to ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes account of political issues in the granting of export licences. This includes democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights. Looking through the list of countries to which Norway has exported different defence materials, not all are distinguished by either democratic rights or respect for fundamental human rights. Saudi Arabia is one example. I therefore believe that the assessment of export licence applications requires real requirements for the human rights situation in the recipient country. The left considers that it is positive that the Committee took note of a comment on that very point. It is a major challenge for Norwegian foreign policy, on the one hand, to appear as a major arms exporter and, on the other hand, to work actively to promote peace and reconciliation in other countries. I believe that some of the gap between two such different considerations can be filled by reference to a strict Norwegian export control and Norway's active role in promoting international humanitarian law. This applies not least in connection with the conclusion of the Mining and Class Weapons Conventions. Furthermore, we can refer to the work of the United Nations on an Arms Trade Treaty. It shall increase the control of the placing on the market of all conventional weapons, including small arms. That's very good. Given the resistance of leading arms-exporting countries such as the United States, China and Russia, it may take time for an Arms Trade Treaty to be adopted and ratified. In the meantime, I assume that the Government, together with other like-minded countries, is doing what it can to influence these countries in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2612	I would also like to congratulate the Committee as a whole and the rapporteur for an important position. It is a strength for this type of message that it is wide and well received. I will also allow myself to pay tribute to my ministry in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is responsible for enforcing what we believe to be among the strictest laws in the world, in a way that I believe is respected and that it is wise to write about in the big message. So I would say – although I am not responsible for the industrial part of this – that there is no reason to be ashamed that we have an industry that can deliver on a market where there is strong competition. There were examples from Kongsberg here. This is the Norwegian high-tech industry, which is the budding of a long industrial tradition, where we can also reap benefits in other areas. I believe it is possible to combine the role of the exporter of weapons and to be a nation that wants peace, reconciliation and progress in the humanitarian field, because for us too, peace is ensured by our military defence. Then, on behalf of the Government, I would like to say that we take note of the various recommendations of the Committee. It's natural that we go into them and evaluate how we can follow up. In particular, Björn Jacobsen raised two questions – this with a parliamentary export control function and the theme we have often discussed, namely the end-user declaration. It comes up in different contexts. We will look into it carefully with a view to both having a strong control and maintaining links with our allies, as it happens. But I also notice that there are countries inside the alliance that have a final declaration. We're going to go into these questions. So we also regret that it was not possible to have a wide consultation because of the time factor. But I am pleased that the Storting found time to process the message now – and did not delay its processing. As was said in the debate last week, we are in fact already preparing next year's report. And I would also say, as I said then, that there is extensive contact between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and civil society on these issues. It's not just in the context of a hearing around a message that we have it. Now I do not suggest to the committee that having a hearing with civil society cannot be replaced by having a lot of contact in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But I'll nevertheless stress that we have it. In the context of the ‘Reflect’ project, with debates on foreign policy across the country, I can certainly stress that I have met civil society at every crossroads – where both good and demanding questions have been asked about our export of weapons. So I'd say it's been a historic period to be responsible for this. As Marit Nybakk said, the Klasvåpen Convention, which many here in Stortingen have helped to drive forward – and a bold wording in the Soria Moria Declaration – we have worked with and succeeded, in the sense that we have a convention. But let me remind you that there are 96 states that have signed, and it has to be ratified, and then there will be supervisory conferences and further work to ensure that the intentions behind the Convention can gradually become a reality. Humanitarian disarmament is a field we are going to give priority to in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the time to come, and here comes the question of weapons of mass destruction – small arms – in, here comes the issue of regulating trade in conventional weapons, and I also see a further tightening of Norwegian work in general for international humanitarian law. Here we now have an understanding with, among other things, The International Red Cross and some countries both in the north and in the south to set this agenda already at the UN General Assembly in New York in September to follow up this work. But, as I said, I thank the Storting for the interest that is. I think we can live up to the term that we have the world's strictest export control regime. We should have. And then we'll see how we can arrange it in a way that makes us live up to that ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2629	Map to two points – one due to the contributions of the representative Woie Duesund. Let me stress that I fully agree with all that the representative said about arms exports, control of defence equipment, transparency – all the professional she brought up. But she also mentioned that the Christian People's Party had wanted a postponement. I would like to refer to what the rapporteur said in his statement, that the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously adopted a plan of progress, and we gave, as we used to, the Procuratorate to the Vaksdal – with good experience – but the day before the release there was a situation in which the Christian People's Party wanted a postponement for hearings. I would like to stress that all the parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee are very concerned about the contact we have, have had and will have with civil society on these matters. Six months ago, we had an extensive hearing. In addition, the same organisations were involved in the discussion of the communication on foreign policy, but also in the context of corporate social responsibility – we have received written input, and very many of them have informal contacts with the same organisations. So this I believe is taken care of, and there's a new message coming next year. We also base the previous setting on this setting, so I don't think this is a problem. But again, I also want to stress the importance of having this relationship with civil society, which is very valuable. Then I would like to address something that Mr. Bjorn Jacobsen said, and that concerns the issue of parliamentary control. We have had comments in a couple-three of these settings. The remarks have varied somewhat, but this is ultimately a matter that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy has to decide. In an earlier phase, we have well discussed whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the forthcoming Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and the Presidency should look at this. I am not sure if the Swedish model works particularly well. As far as I know, the export of defence equipment from Sweden has increased during the period when this control board has been held in Riksdag. It is true that very many parliamentarians have difficulty saying no if it is industry in their own country. But it can certainly be done in a better way – some form of parliamentary control or increased parliamentary involvement. But we'll see about that in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2636	I just have a few short comments. The representative Jacobsen criticised the progress in dealing with this matter, despite the fact that his party was behind when the committee adopted the progress plan, and also behind the unanimous position we are discussing today. So I think it was a bit strange that you should get criticism from that team, all the time you're behind the setting and the procedures. The representative Woie Duesund from the Christian People's Party was also critical of the progress, and said that she could rather aim to push the matter to the fall session. Despite this, there is no proposal for deferral either in the stand-up or in the room today. Shouldn't these parties, who have a protocol entry in the vote, propose a postponement if they had really meant anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2645	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2653	The cancellation shall then be paid in respect of the matters that have been dealt with at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2660	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals No. 7, 8 and 13, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 9-11, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 12, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 14-20, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 21, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Left Proposal No. 22, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Left The President noted that proposal No. 13 by mistake has been placed under suggestions from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in the setting. Per-Willy Amundsen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2695	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is drawing up a proposal No. 15, because, as appears in the setting, it contains a reference error.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2700	It's registered. There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a sample to be set up by the Government to review current interest rate taxation in the context of complementing the new income system in 2011.’» [[natural resource tax]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2716	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government of the State Budget for 2010 to submit proposals to increase the symmetric input smoothing to 55 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2730	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 16–20, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2773	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the necessary local coherence between the funding base, industrial development and service production in the local government sector. The State budget for 2010 therefore requires tax revenue as a share of total revenue to be around 50 p.m. and the Government asks the Government to make proposals to municipal taxpayers to meet this objective.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2787	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy does not authorise the transfer of other national roads and roads to the counties and to the Municipality of Oslo. The Government is asking the Government to implement the necessary measures to reverse the implementation of measures and to stop planned measures related to the administrative reform in the transport sector.’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an information campaign against the municipalities that tells about the challenges’. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of a grant scheme for the construction of residential housing, to provide the necessary technological infrastructure to enable technological solutions to be implemented in the future.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2813	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8 and 13, from the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the KS, to draw up a proposal for a multi-annual plan for the local economy in which the economy and the services offered to the inhabitants become more predictable.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to the government in the State budget for 2010 the adjustment of the small municipality grant to municipalities over 3,200 inhabitants who do not have a fixed road link with neighbouring municipalities.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look at the situation of non-permanent municipalities when new cost keys for cost-balancing are presented for 2011. Today's income system does not capture the fact that an entire municipality is not a landlocked municipality, whereas parts of a municipality are not permanently protected by the 3 travel distance criteria.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2839	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The deficit asks the Government of the State budget for 2010 to submit proposals to reintroduce the municipal corporation tax scheme and to apply a corporation tax of 4,25 p.m.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2853	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for updated population figures for the calculation of population grants and cost-balancing for the counties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e2868	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in its work on cost-balancing to remedy and establish a factor that will safeguard the specific situation of the municipalities of growth.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The ruling requests the Government to propose without delay the necessary legislative changes to introduce a right to user-led personal assistance for people with a substantial need for assistance.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of current legislation and tasks for services aimed at children and young people with the need for pedagogical-psychological services, psychiatry and child protection, pointing to current legislative changes and proposals for action for a more coherent treatment chain for this target group.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3008	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4-10, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals Nos. 11–15, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and Right-wing Proposal No. 16, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left In the course of the debate, proposal No. 4) by the Group of the European People's Party, the Right and the Left, and proposal No. 16 from the Left, converted into a transmission proposal, and will be amended accordingly. Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, in amended form, reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government come back in an appropriate manner with a case concerning a comprehensive and more effective broadcasting policy.’ Proposal No. 16, from the Left, then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish its own national identity and documentation unit to determine the identity of asylum seekers who come without identity documents.’;» The President proposes that these proposals should be forwarded to the Government without any substantive assessment. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 11–15, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess how return agreements and receipts of its own nationals who do not fulfil the conditions for residence in Norway may be included as elements of agreements concluded with countries to receive Norwegian assistance. Qualification programmes should also be considered in this context.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is to be given access to parts of the aid portfolio for the implementation of a return system and that assistance funds can be used to stimulate return agreements.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the establishment of a qualification programme for asylum seekers cooperating on return. It is a prerequisite that the final part of the qualification is carried out in the applicant’s home Member State.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider the possibility of tightening up the requirement in the Foreign Affairs Act that asylum seekers contribute to clarifying their own identity in order to reduce the number of persons using missing papers to train the procedure.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to initiate the notified work of drawing up a proposal for a regulation giving the so-called MUFs: [[Temporary stay Not entitled to family reunification]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3074	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Torshov project is continued as one project in which the UDI and the Police Aliens Unit are co-located and work together for the rapid processing and deployment of asylum seekers with clearly groundless asylum applications.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to expeditiously investigate the possibility of holding asylum seekers who commit repeated criminal acts until the asylum application has been processed.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess whether repeated criminal offences committed by an asylum seeker having an application for treatment could have an impact on the outcome of the case.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a notification system for asylum seekers who do not live on reception and persons who have been refused and who are awaiting dispatch. Repeated breaches of the obligation to notify could lead to custody.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a scheme in which tourists from countries with a high probability of ‘dropping off’ must report to the Norwegian Embassy upon their return. If he/she does not notify himself/her return, the guarantee of his/her residence will be released.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by instruction to the UDI to modify the practice of the Directorate in terms of political statements and links with the Taliban so that it no longer speaks to the benefit of the applicant that he has had a profiled, influential position and, where appropriate, has been a member of the Taliban regime’s administration. The same change must be made in the case of managers and commanders at the provincial or central level and/or those who have committed a serious infringement.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3116	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3160	During the debate, 43 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–31, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 32-35, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 36, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 37 and 38, from Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 39, by Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 40 and 41, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 42 and 43, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left In the course of the debate, proposal No. 25 from the Party of Advancement, right, Christian party and left, converted into a proposal for transmission, and will be changed in line with this. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended to the Government to return to Stortinget with a case for additions to the Share Act in order to strengthen the legal protection of entrepreneurs in start-up companies.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 42 and 43, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3214	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40 and 41, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3237	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to draw up a stepping-up plan so that the public research share reaches 1.4 per cent of GDP by 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3251	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37 and 38, from the right, the Christian people, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3274	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the party of progress, from the Christian party, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a strategy plan on how Norway’s ability to influence decisions on the use of EU funds in R & D can be increased, with the aim of channelling funds to achieve Norway’s defined national objectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 and 35, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3311	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 and 34, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3336	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-31, with the exception of proposal No 25 from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-17.ana.ud2226e3596	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
