ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e39	The representative Arve Kambe, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e47	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal to transfer tasks from the Regional Offices of Children, Youth and Family to the Municipal Child Protection Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e52	The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e55	On behalf of the big business representatives Lars Myraune, Øyvind Halleraker, Sylvi Graham, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I would like to make a proposal to modernise and restructure the Railway Agency into two state limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the Stortinget deal with the supplementary agenda before the ordinary agenda. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the same time, pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will request the approval of voting immediately after the consideration of each case on the supplementary agenda. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e77	The President first requests a new member of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e83	I'd like to suggest Board Vegar Solhell.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e91	The Board of Vegar Solhjell is proposed as a new member of the Election Committee instead of Heikki Holmås. Other proposals are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e100	The President then asks for proposals for new alternates to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e106	I suggest Stine Renate Håheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e114	Stine Renate Håheim is proposed as a new alternate after Rigmor Aasrud, who has entered the Government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e117	I suggest Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e125	Heikki Holmås is proposed as a new alternate instead of Aksel Hagen. Other proposals are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e146	Int. 27 S, which was dealt with and adopted by the Stortinget on 22 October, there is a wrong location of three Roman numerals. As regards III, IV and V from the budgetary position of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry, they are located in Framework Area 10 [[transport and communication]] In order to correct this error and with reference to the first paragraph of Section 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, the President will promote the following oral suspension from the Presidency with a proposal for a decision: ‘The adopted allocation to the GFCF of the draft State budget, including the public interest for the period from 1 January to 31. December 2010 is amended as follows: the Roman numerals III, IV and V under Framework Area 10 are transferred to Framework Area 17.’» No one has asked for the floor, and the President expects us to vote on the Presidency's proposal for a decision, which has been distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and has been referred to. The Presidency had cancelled: The breakdown adopted by the GFCF of the draft State budget, including the public expenditure for the period from 1 January to 31. December 2010 is amended as follows: the Roman numerals III, IV and V under Framework Area 10 are transferred to Framework Area 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e166	Then we move on to the ordinary agenda. Case No. 1 has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget examine the matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e185	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e194	Today, the size should address the strengthening of the towing gear in the South. The coastal works budget for 2010 is proposed to increase by 127 million. kr to cover the towing boat stand in North Norway and the South. However, it has been desirable to prepare a daily towing vessel in the South as soon as possible. The bidding round has been conducted, subject to the consent of the Storting. The Committee agrees that it is important to put in place a daily towing boat stand along the south coast as soon as possible and therefore chooses to deal with this matter very quickly, so that it can be implemented immediately. As an easter and southerly landing, I am pleased that we are now getting a towing gear that makes it possible to avoid accidents or to reduce the possible accident rate. I am pleased that the Government meets with this proposal all those who have pointed out the need for a strengthened preparedness along the south coast. This part of the coast is heavily busy. Special power conditions also make the south-eastern coast vulnerable to the rapid spread of, for example, oil in the event of an accident. Available and well enough equipment is also essential to handle e.g.: oil spills. I therefore welcome the continued focus on adequate depots and the development of the best possible oil protection equipment. It is also important that resources are seen in the context and used as best as possible. In this connection, I suggest that a now along the south coast could also benefit from the Coast Guard's own vessels, and seek cooperation with the Coast Guard if the situation so requires. It is also possible for the Coast Guard to ask for assistance from other vessels if required. I am also pleased with the increasing focus on accident prevention work. We see that the work with the sailor is well under way, and we look forward to this happening in several places along the coast. It is also important to keep up the pressure regarding the heavy oil discussion. I am pleased that Norway is clear on this issue internationally. Finally, I would like to point out again that it is very positive that a person is getting a solid towing gear in the South, and that this will be implemented immediately after a decision here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e213	It is terrible that there had to be an accident before the government admitted that the preparedness along the south coast was not as it should be, despite the fact that the Progress Party has repeatedly pointed this out. Not later than June, the State Council of Solheim, on a question from the Advancement Party, said that preparedness was good enough and that it did not need to be tightened up. So you can be wrong, or it's so hard to admit wrong. The good part of this is that the government in this case has learned from its mistakes, and that now, at least in words, they want to improve security along the south coast. I hope that the will and the economy to get the preparedness in place on the entire southern stretch is also present. In the case of preparedness, I believe that the precautionary principle must apply. It's too late when the accident is over, that you have to figure out what you should have done in advance. That is why we in the Progress Party have been talking for years about preparedness along the coast. The pre-goods principle is very important in terms of this type of preparedness. The south coast is, moreover, more than the coast of Kristiansand and westwards towards Rogaland. East Agder has – yes, is – also south coast. It is therefore important that the coast of East-Agder should also be given priority when talking about preparedness along the south coast. ‘Homeports’ for the new tugboat are, after replies from two government councils, alternates between Kristiansand and Farsund. It worries me that East-Agder and our beautiful coastline are not mentioned in this context, although some claim that the tugboat will operate until Riser. In the future, it will be important to put in place an action plan for enhanced oil protection with committed funding – for upgrading oil protection equipment and vessels. We must have sufficient towing capacity, and we must be absolutely sure that this capacity is available. This applies not only to the South but also to the whole of the Norwegian coast, and in particular to the coastal sections where shipping, weather or other conditions warrant such preparedness. That is why, in its own proposal for a representative, the Progress Party has promoted this very thing. I am pleased that the ship ‘BB Connector’ is now to be found in the waters south of the country, yes, on the whole south coast. I'm glad that it's being staffed 24 hours a day, and because professionals say it meets the criteria that have been laid down for such a ship. I am pleased to see that the preparedness in the future will be further intensified along the entire Norwegian coastline.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e228	In the right we are also positive to this matter. It is important to get a tug on the Southland as soon as possible. That is why we have also taken a positive view of the rapid treatment to which it has been added. It is probably almost a record that we have such a quick handling of a matter in Stortinget. But it must not be a habit for the government to think that you can bring things and get them pumped through the system so quickly. Of course, it's because we want to put this in place before the harvest storms, and so we can secure it as soon as possible, that we've been positive about this. There is also an authority in the matter to conclude a four-year agreement, which should then be in place and in reassuring forms in the future. However, towing boat preparedness is also needed elsewhere in the country, both the Middle Norway, the West and the Eastern region still lack this preparedness. I hope that the Council of State will be able to give some signals when this can happen. There are very many people in Norway and along the coast waiting. I also want to use a little of my post to pay tribute to the Rescue Company. We have recently been informed in the hearing that they actually operate as a kind of first-line service in this work. It is such that very often the rescue company's boats are closer to seamen than large tugboats and often they manage to keep the seamen off land, before it gets bigger. It's a business that maybe not so many people know about. It is therefore very important that the skates of the rescue company are operational. It is a pity that the Government does not value this effort and does not follow up their budget wish for 2010. Here it is that the rescue company has asked for 71 million. NOK 42 million. So kr, which represents 10 pst. of their overall budget. The consequence is that they must reduce from 26 to 24 lifeguards. I would like to inform you that the Right will come back to exactly this under our draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e241	The centre party is very happy that we're getting a reinforcement of the tug capacity in the South. Maritime transport represents both an environmentally friendly and cost-effective mode of transport. At the same time, there may be environmental threats when accidents occur, as we have seen some examples of recently that have been very unfortunate. That is why it is now very important to strengthen the state towing boat readiness. The centre party wishes to stimulate growth in maritime transport, while strengthening maritime safety and prevention of adverse events. Then state oil protection is very important. Follow-up to planning frameworks and prioritisation of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 are important in this way. There will be increased appropriations for fishing ports and other maritime infrastructure. We need to strengthen the monitoring and warning system for marine areas and the preparedness for pollution at sea. We have to continue to work on establishing sailing leaders along the coast. For the Centre Party, it has been very important to put in place a heading along the coast of hazardous cargo vessels. For the Church and Røst, corridors have now been adopted far away from the coast, and corridors continue to work. It will be important for the areas we are talking about today, for the beautiful coast that we have on the South, and for the areas further northwards towards Røst. Some transport must take place in coastal waters, and then we must have competence locally, and oil protection equipment must be strategically located. We are therefore very pleased that you are now being strengthened towboat readiness and getting a better response in the South. However, we also believe that further work needs to be done on strengthening oil protection and developing it in line with environmental risk analyses, equipment assessments and coastal traffic developments. New equipment needs to be developed. Therefore, interaction between maritime industry, R & D and development actors needs to be strengthened. One option may be to strengthen the Arena programmes through Innovation Norway, another may be to strengthen the recently established research promise in the north, in order to strengthen the R & D development that will take place. We believe from the Centre Party that there is a need for better cooperation between all actors on the maritime side, whether they are on the public side or they are using the sea for daily use. I believe that both the fishing fleet, the rescue company and the Hurtigruten can be important contributors in this way, and I assume that all forces must be able to be coordinated, so that we have the best possible protection for a clean coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e258	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that we are now getting a better state preparedness in the South. This is a matter for which there has been a great commitment to the South, and the embassy that the Government has come with just in this area, I think I'll be very well drawn against. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has dealt with the matter in such a good and flexible way and so quickly, even if I want to be very clear – as also the representative Halleraker was – that this should not be customary in the way we deal with matters in the Committee. That being said, it is also clear that the reason this case came was the accident with Full City outside Langesund. Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim said in Stortinget as late as 18 June 2009 that there is no need for government towboat preparedness in South Norway. The Government Party, Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party also disapprove of the opposition's concern in the budget setting from last year. It is with concern that I read the budget position from the autumn of 2008, where the Committee's plurality, the Labour Party's members, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, say that they are'very satisfied with the upgrading of oil protection equipment carried out in recent years'. So this was one year back in time. Then I thought it was much wiser what the members of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left said: ‘These members point out that oil protection must be seen in a close context with preventive maritime safety. Therefore, these members consider it important that necessary and appropriate equipment is in place. These members are concerned about the Government's commitment to oil protection. These members focus on the precautionary principle of environmental policy.’ That being said, we are pleased that the towing boat capacity at Sørlanden has now been improved, and that we have got this offer implemented. What is now important is that we in other parts of the country can improve this capacity. I am pleased with what the government has done, even though I was disappointed with the signals that she sent a year back, and also those that were given before the summer. It shows that in this case there has been good reason for the Government to listen to the opposition. It's been a happy result in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e272	The left is also positive that a day-to-day towing boat stand along the coast of South Africa is finally being put in place. It is an important contribution to strengthening maritime safety and environmental work in one of our most trafficked marine areas. However, it is a cross-thinking that this proposal by the Government will then be made immediately after the ‘Full City’ wreck, which was also the subject of the representative Hareide. This is, after all, a matter that the Storting has raised on a number of occasions, and which has been the subject of great concern among the population along the south coast. The government's proposal is good, but unfortunately it's a little late. During the previous ageing period, the Left repeatedly called for a day-to-day tug boat outside the south coast. We addressed this with the then State Council in the Questionnaire both in 2007 and 2008. I would like to quote an excerpt from the question from former intelligence representative Anne Margrethe Larsen on 22 October 2008: ‘More than three years have passed since the ‘Fjord Champion’ fell outside Search in West Agder, but in this state budget too, money has been better prepared along the south coast. People are now asking if a new serious accident must happen before better preparedness is in place. Leakage from one of the many oil tanks passing through Skagerrak will cause severe contamination.’ The feedback at the time, both in 2008 and 2007, was negative, and we were assured that this was an area that was being worked on. As late as the 2009 state budget was examined, an overall committee, as was said here earlier, pointed out the need to put in place a tugboat gear along the south coast, and a plan for stepping up this preparedness was also called for. Neither did the government this time take the initiative to do something about the situation. Thus, when this matter comes to voting today, the Stortinget will make changes to the 2009 State budget – the same state budget as the Committee expressed its concern about the lack of towing boat preparedness. So now there's going to be funds at your disposal to do something about this. It is of course very good, but it is obvious from the left's point of view that the government has not been responsive enough and has taken the concerns of the local population seriously, including the technical recommendations on the need to strengthen preparedness in one of our most busy sea areas. Unfortunately, many people got the right to have an accident to get the government to respond. The Bondevik II Government submitted St.meld in 2005. No 14 for 2004-2005 on maritime safety and oil protection with 43 concrete proposals for strengthening and stepping up oil protection. The red-green government has not followed this well enough up. It has been too slow, and the appropriations have been too puzzled. In the previous period, the Left proposed to strengthen coastal oil protection by more than 170 million. to remedy the government's lack of initiative in this area. We have a new Minister of Fisheries and Coast, and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the job. A new Council of State also offers new opportunities. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State whether she – he is today – will come to Stortinget with a concrete plan to strengthen preparedness for acute pollution with the aim of averting similar disasters such as the ‘Full City’ disaster in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e293	I then give the floor to the Council of State, which is obviously a male, Erik Solheim, who meets in the absence of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e296	Let me first thank the President for that clarification. After three years together in government, there was a useful preparation! Let me also say that I should convey my greetings to the Minister for Fisheries, who unfortunately had an illness today. I'm saying because the government wanted to be as flexible as the Storting. When the Storting has been flexible and got this case through in record time, it was important that the Government was also flexible. That's why I'm replacing her. But let there be no doubt about who is the Minister of Fisheries and is responsible for oil protection. This is, as I see it, a very good day for the South. But it's also a very good day for the Storting, because the Storting has the ability to be flexible and handle such a case quickly, I think very much corresponds to what people in the South want to happen, and what is a broad perception in the Norwegian people. The fact that one can then take such a case out on the basis of the government's proposal and deal with it in this way is a great respect. I would also like to assure Mr Halleraker that this will not be a common practice. But it is an example of good cooperation between the Government, which delivers the premises, and the Storting, who quickly delivers in this matter. It's fine. It is also gratifying, of course, that there is an overall committee, an overall magnificence, which is behind what is now being done. Then there are comments in the committee position related to the further need for escalation in this area. Let me just say that in the 2010 budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, it has been announced that it is working on towing boat equipment in the West. In addition, proposals are being made for the establishment of towing gear in North Norway with three year leased-in vessels over the 2010 budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. These measures are in addition to what has been achieved in the past by the Government, such as the upgrading of coastal State preparedness depots. In 2006, the Coast Guard Agency provided a progress report on oil protection equipment in state depots along the coast, with a recommended replacement plan by 2010. In the budgets for 2006 to 2009, this has been followed up, with appropriations in 2009 amounting to 122 million. kr higher than in 2005. In the 2010 budget, the Government proposes to continue the 2009 level of appropriations, which means that the Government fully follows up the Coastal Authority’s recommended replacement plan. I must also point to the excellent cooperation we have had with the Shipowners' Association and others in finding better sailing leaders outside the territorial waters. This is now in place in North Norway, and it is an important part of the management plan for the Norwegian Sea to be given less risk managers along the coast. Let me comment on two things that have emerged in the debate. The representative Vosskesen of the Progress Party claimed – false – that I have previously commented on the draft towing boat on Sørlanden, a claim The Progress Party made several times in the election campaign. It was corrected every time. But now that the election campaign is over, it's time to stop it. It's not true. In addition, all big business representatives should be telling the truth. But representatives of the South should perhaps, with the historical background, speak extra truth. There was a debate on towing boat preparedness during the examination of the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. The South is not on the Norwegian Sea, and of course is not part of that debate. That debate was also about – with all due respect – that I had a great deal to do with the absolute fundamental belief of the Progress Party in the state versus the private. The government believes that you can use private items in a tugboat stand, and that's also what you do in this case. You take private items, of course, into a state plan. That was the debate at the time – it was not about South Africa – and we should park this now. So it was the representative of the Ruits who drew out what we need to do in addition to getting a better towing boat readiness, namely to phase out heavy oil in Norway and internationally. Here a number of initiatives have been taken, and a lot is happening internationally. We have received what we perceive and believe is an international heavy oil ban from 2020, also for the North Sea from 2015. But we want to make sure that we get equivalent along the entire Norwegian coast from 2015. We are an international driving force to ensure that this happens faster, and that any loopholes, where shipowners may not phase out heavy oil, but instead try different types of sewage treatment plants, become dense. But this is a work that is en route. I just want to call for good cooperation with Stortinget on this in the future. I am absolutely sure that a total collapse will want us to be a strong and tough driver for the fastest possible phasing out of heavy oil both in Norway and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e323	It is good that the government now realizes that there is a need to strengthen the tugboat gear along the whole coast. The matter today is a confirmation of that. At the same time, in the 2010 budget of the Coastal Agency, we read that other areas are not specifically mentioned. It is called ‘ having an overview of towing resources across the coast’. So now the Council of State said you want to look at the West. Do we need a lot of basic support to get it as fast in place as what we see in this case now? Do we need a lot of new ground supports in the West to get helicopter visits from this state council and other government councils to realize that there is a need for increased preparedness in the West? Can the Council of State say something about – and time-fixing – when we get the necessary improvement of the tugboat gear along the west coast? I point out that there's a lot of traffic and a lot of risk there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e328	Of course, I share the opinion of the representative of Sortevik that there is huge traffic along the Norwegian coast – there is an impressive number of boats going there every day – and that it is therefore important to have a good preparedness, not just on the South, but along the whole coast. However, I think it would be more appropriate to take this expanded debate on the whole towboat readiness with the real Minister of Fisheries when she is back, in relation to the budget. As I said, the government in the budget has presented a number of measures that will strengthen coastal preparedness, in line with the plan put forward to do so by 2010. The urgent need to get through right now is the specific issue of preparedness on the South Coast. But, of course, we're going to call for cooperation with Stortinget to improve preparedness along the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e333	Like what has been said in other articles today, I am pleased that we are now starting to deploy rescue services in the South and also in North Norway. I also notice, and will comment, the unshakable belief of the Council of State in private initiative, which we are very pleased with in the Right. Now there is no direct plan to increase preparedness in central Norway. Not long ago, we had a big local loophole in Middle Norway. We know there's tug capacity in the area, but there's no standby. It was hacked before we got long beaches contaminated with oil in Middle Norway that time. Therefore, I would like to know if the Council of State can say something more precisely about the time frame for planning, and when the preparedness can be put in place in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e340	Let me first say that yes, I have an unshakable belief in private initiative. I also have an unshakable belief that a state framework for private initiative is needed in order for it to function properly. But this area we're talking about here is a very good example of the state being responsible, but that private people are doing many of the tasks. It's a flexibility I think is better. Once again, I propose that the slightly more extensive debate be taken when the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is back. But let me bring one perspective into the debate, and that's that towing boat readiness is important. But it is far from certain that a better towing boat readiness, for example. would prevent the accident at Langesund. Without me being inside of what the final conclusions there are, it was very, very few minutes from this boat had problems, until it went down. So it's not sure it would solve the problem. Towing boat readiness is important, but the need to phase out heavy oil, to assess where boats will anchor and a number of other measures are also needed to improve coastal safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e347	I would like to thank you for a good speech from the Council of State, which I think would have been wise in this matter to listen to the opposition and the concern we had over a year ago. Now the Minister for Fisheries is not here, but I still want to challenge what is going on on private initiative. We have a large coastal fishing fleet. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he sees a possibility of making greater use of the available capacity, not least until we have a better state preparedness in place. My question is: does the Council of State see a possibility of making greater use of the coastal fishing fleet in a preparedness perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e356	I do not want to raise myself to any professional expert as to what emergency considerations can reasonably be taken care of by the coastal fishing fleet. But in general, I would say that I believe the best solutions in Norway will always be that the state is responsible in these areas. Security is a state responsibility. It is the State that represents the citizens and is therefore responsible for security. But there's a lot of flexibility in how it's done. If the fishing fleet, the oil industry and other parts of the shipping industry can exercise parts of this within a reasonable whole, I would at least think so in principle. But I will leave it to the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast to answer the professional question of what individuals can actually do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e361	It's important to be truthful. I think we are very aware of what the Council of State said about towing boat standby. That it was about the general tug-boat gear, I guess. Other government councils have also said to assess the towing boat readiness on Sørland. One has been very critical of a follow-up and the challenges that Stortinget has often given to the Government in terms of towing boat readiness. I registered that the Council of State was very clear that he was going to assess the draft terms of reference in the West. But he didn't say anything about the East. He did not say anything about Svalbard, which has also been a lot of fun from the department, that you also have to provide a proper tug-boat preparation in those areas. But is it that there is not so dangerous, because there has already been the boat in the spring? Then it might not be that dangerous, so you might not have to do anything. I think towing boat readiness is important all over the country. I hope that the Government now really takes this seriously when we see the consequences of these accidents both for the environment and for all those living in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e370	I take it for granted that the Progress Party, the Right Party and all the other parties here have a great heart for towing boat preparedness and safety along the coast. I really think we should get the respect that the government has the same thing. When the representative Hoksrud reaches e.g. did not mention international towing boat readiness, I do not take it as a sign that the representative of Hoksrud is not concerned about it. Of course, not mentioning Svalbard, the East and all other places every time is not a sign that those places are less important. I believe that an overall debate on everything, with the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast, will be a sensible way forward to assess what is to be done in the West, in North Norway, in Svalbard and in the East. If I've forgotten someone, it's not because I'm not busy with them. What we're doing today is we're taking the South out of this debate because a total mass, along with the Government, thinks there's an urgent need to do something there. The fact that we're actually getting it done early in November is very, very good, and something that I'm sure people in the South appreciate – and also in Telemark, where the representative himself comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e379	The President would like to remind you that all the speeches in Stortinget should go through the President, not directly between debaters or replicants. The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e386	When we have a replacement for the newly appointed Minister of Fisheries and Coast, there is no bad replacement. It must be of interest to the Minister for the Environment to listen to the thoughts of representatives of the Storting on oil protection and towing boat preparedness. There must be interesting thoughts also for a Minister for the Protection of the Environment. When, through this urgency, the Storting has gone to speed up a patchwork on the Government's oil protection policy, I assume that the Minister for the Environment is also listening to signals coming about preparedness in other areas. The background to this matter is that preparedness should be strengthened. The majority agrees with the Government's assessments, or rather vice versa. There has been a need to strengthen preparedness. We are also happy that this has been done. But there is still at least one missing vessel – I have to say, coming from the West – and it is in an area where most of the accidents we have had in recent years have actually occurred. There is still a shortage of at least one vessel in the West, where there is particularly high traffic outside the Hordaland coast, particularly related to the activity of Sture and Mongstad. There is, as the Council of State certainly knows, traffic on large gas and tankers crossing other regional and national traffic along the coast and off the coast. Traffic is high and therefore the risk is also high. After the accident at Langesund this summer it was clearly shown that there was a shorter political route from Oslo to Langesund than it was from Oslo to Mongstad, to Fedje and to Sture. We hope that the Government can change a little bit in that perspective. There was pure rushing of state councils to Langesund, and there was no lack of promises and insurance. The matter here today is a receipt for the promises. It is good, but it is also thought that there must be a serious accident to realize that preparedness needs to be strengthened. The West and Hordaland need both attention and action. Oil protection along the west coast is an important part of our national oil protection system. It is an area that should both worry and involve an environmental protection minister. The readiness to protect oil is a national insurance premium. Given Norway’s high revenue from oil and gas activities, we believe Norway can afford good insurance. In fact, we can afford to be overconfident, but there's still a good deal missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e399	I think everyone agrees that today we should lift the flag, because everyone sitting in this room agrees that this is very important. It is very nice that we are now getting a towing gear in South Africa. There's no doubt about it. But I think it is with respect to report that it is a little special that there has to be an accident in the East in order to finally put in place a towing gear in the South. In the east, there is still to be no towing boat preparation in line with the National Towing Boat Preparedness and the 2006 report of the Working Group. Here there are many clear and clear recommendations on what to do to ensure a proper towing boat readiness in Norway, but it had to be an accident in the East before you got serious and made sure to put in place a towing boat standby in the South. I think it is important that, after the accident in Langesund, an evaluation, an external evaluation, as we have also proposed in a representative's proposal on this matter that will be discussed, should be made in order to put the facts into place. But there is no doubt that many questions can be asked about what happened, and why not use the tug-boat gear that was there, but that was private, and where the state has no agreement, but which lies a few miles away from where the accident in Langesund happened. I really hope that this debate will come, and that the Government is willing to take the debate properly when our representative proposal on a strengthened and proper oil protection preparedness in Norway comes to the table. I would also like to challenge the Council of State a little bit, because today, ANB has a case on this with new oil lenses, where it is said that the Department and Government are looking for funds to do something to develop this and perhaps get even better oil protection in order to get better drainage and better equipment on the sea. So I really hope it comes into place. Then I have to say that I think what you experienced when the accident happened was a little special. Then there were government members in fines and buckets. The election speed of Langesund to look at the accident – I think it is good – but that was what you could do right after the accident had happened. At that time, you were supposed to have a towboat stand on Sørland. I am pleased that the towing boat gear is now in place, and that it is actually in place before we adopt it in Stortinget today. Because we saw the report that the boat is there, the boat is ready, and it is already in use. And that's good. But it is a little special that the boat is actually in use before Stortinget has made its decision. But I'm very happy about it, because if there were an accident, it would be tragic if it happened because we sat here and discussed whether or not we should get this in place. And so, when you're concerned with oil protection -- and I see that the government is at least saying that it's concerned about it -- it becomes a bit special that over several years you reduce the appropriations for the rescue company, which is an important part of the towing boat's gear. We had it at the hearing, and we saw that only last year it was about. 30 cases where the rescue company was involved and contributed to the fact that it was not shipwrecked, with the consequences it could have. So I really hope that the Government now reviews the cut in the appropriations for the Rescue Company as it has done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e420	First, I would like to thank you for the flexibility shown by both the Presidency and the Committee. I hope it's an expression that they see how important it is to get this in place now, although I have great respect for the problems of deviating from the ordinary way of dealing with matters. There is no doubt that this is a happy day for South Africa, and it is as the representative of that part of the country to be good to attend and deal with this matter now. Then I have to say that it is really impressive – at least if you have the sport as a background – to have one like that asked after running for such a long time, because it must be worth remembering that it is actually exactly eight years ago, as the rapporteur in Grimstad, was with and wrote the first letter in order to get this in place. That's why it's an extra good feeling when it happens. Some have engaged themselves strongly in the location of the boat. I have to say, for my part, that I think it should be a professional assessment. But what the political environment together with the professional environments has to grips with is the density of such boats – and then we're not just talking about Southland; then we're talking about the whole coast. I am pleased that the Council of State has several times considered the other aspects of this issue. Towboats are good when accidents are out, and when the crisis is there, but there is absolutely a need to focus on prevention. I seem to see that many of the accidents that have ended in tragedy have a history that it should be possible to do something about. Without the solution here now, there's probably more things that you should look at to make sure that one is several times earlier out in view of greater safety for the traffic that's happening along our coast. I know that today there are many coastal rapporteurs in South Africa who are drawing a sigh of relief, and I hope that the relief they are now expressing is used to continue working along the entire Norwegian coast to get a tugboat stand and a density that makes you safe along the whole coast. I think you'll appreciate that. And I am happy to accept the invitation of the Council of State to work for this and for this in the future with the Storting. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e431	The values of the peoples of the South Coast are created by shipping. Proud traditions and international trade have shaped the continent through sail, steam and – yes – oil. Shipping is one of the reasons why West Agder is today the world leader in offshore and shipping. That's why it's important that the seaway is safe. Now we're getting increased safety along the coast, not only through the towing boat gear, but also through the work done by the Government to secure the ship's tracks, and the ongoing work – even if it's long-term – to make the boats more environmentally friendly. This is a national initiative and is important for all parts of Norway. With a response time of two hours, major adverse consequences of any future accident could be avoided. It is not only industry and trade that will benefit from this effort, but also the vulnerable coastal landscape will face a safer time. The monks may scream their ‘shall have, shall have’ — to quote Odd Børetzen — and the seabed, the mink, the fish and the white shells will benefit from the safety and the effort both to secure the ship's trail and to improve environmental protection. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that the Government, the Storting and the Committee have turned so quickly and put this in place. That's very good, and we're grateful for that in the South. It was important to get it in place, because you who come to the Meteorological Institute see that the storms are now in line in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e442	I think it was quite liberating when the representative Harberg told me that one had started working on this case in South Africa at least eight years ago. Then it is a little strange that the criticism from the opposition is so hard and that it has taken so long. For why on earth did not the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and with the Support Party the Progress Party did something about this matter when they had the opportunity to do so when they were in position – and the Progress Party supported three out of four budgets? It's obvious that there's a big difference between politics in position and opposition. But the government that has actually got a towing boat ready on the South is the red-green government. It's a fact. Actually, we're the ones who deliver, we're the ones who do the job. So it had to be another accident, according to the opposition. This isn't exactly right. The current Minister for Fisheries Helga Pedersen answered questions here in the Questionnaire, and was quite clear in ours that now it was the turn of the South. If you go in and look at what's actually said in advance, there's no doubt that it was the trip to South Africa, and now we get it in place quickly. To Halleraker, who criticises that the Government cuts to the Rescue Company: One might look at the last budget that the Minister of Fisheries of the Bondevik government delivered – a budget where there was quite a cut to the Rescue Company. Let it also be clear that there is no government that has actually delivered as much in this area as our government. It is only to go into and look at the 2006 and future budgets, and see how the increase has been in oil protection and maritime safety. Then I think it is quite polite when the Progress Party is talking about the precautionary principle. I hope that it also applies to the other environmental policy of the Progress Party that a leading principle of goods is at stake, and that it is not just in this area. It implies a paradigm shift in the policy of the Progress Party if the precautionary principle is now to be consistently used in environmental policy. I think this debate has been reasonably good to date, but let us not forget that this is a great day for South Africa. There is reason to celebrate, but I feel that someone is acting a bit like what is well-known in Norwegian as a hitchhiker here today. In any case, I would like to take the opportunity to celebrate and say that this is a great day for the South. Let's use the most forces on it, see the positive and the solemn today, and don't try to make it negative that the South is now actually getting a proper tugboat prepare.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e457	I take into account the representative Harberg was inside and who has been followed up by many people afterwards, namely that towing boat repair is important. But good risk management along the Norwegian coast contains a lot of other elements as well. We'll never be able to run ship traffic or oil business with zero risk. What is at stake is to have such a good policy that risks are minimised, that the risk of something happening is as low as possible and that the preparedness for action at the moment is as rapid and effective as possible. Then you have to look at the clean measures, such as towing boat preparation, and, as I said earlier, you have to look at the sailing trails, where the boats are going to go. You have to look at the anchorages; was it true that you could be as close to land as in this case? One has to look at the language issue; was it so that communication between the Norwegian emergency services and the crew was delayed due to this. language problems in this case? I don't know the answer to these things, but all of this will clarify the closer examination of Langesund. You also have to look at the bigger questions that hit it all. Climate change has direct consequences for this because all climate change forecasts indicate that we will have significantly more extreme weather along the Norwegian coast in the event of climate change – more and more storms, more spring tides and a number of other phenomena. It's clear that you get more extreme weather, and it's also going to be a greater risk. Taking an active part in the international fight against climate change is one of the most important preventive measures Norway can take if we want to avoid disasters in our maritime area. It is true that the risk of climate change is greater in Bangladesh and India than in Norway, but also for Norway the fight against climate change is one of the most important measures against disasters along our coast. In addition, of course, we must wage the international fight against heavy oil. The less dangerous products along the coast are, the less risk is. There the government has done a lot. We have put in place an international ban on sulphur, which we believe in practice is a heavy oil ban from 2020, and we are going to see if there are loopholes that need to be closed. From 2015 it will apply to the North Sea, but we want to get ahead in a process where it can also apply to the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea from 2015. We want the ban introduced in Antarctica also to be designed for the Arctic. We're doing a lot on the heavy oil side. In addition, there is also a question of where to operate oil drilling along the coast. It is also an essential safety issue. Not initiating oil drilling in the most vulnerable areas is also good prevention if we want to avoid coastal disasters. This is the overall perspective: More towing boat preparedness, with concrete accident prevention and response measures, and the large picture of heavy oil, with which oil is operated, and with climate action, is what will minimize and reduce the risk. Finally again, this is a great and good day for the South, and it is a good day for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e470	This is a joyous day both for the South and for the whole country. This is a boat that has already come into place. It has home port in Kristiansand and in Farsund, and will operate from Riser in the east to Egersund in the west, i.e. a relatively large part of the coast we have in the south. It is a major advance for safety outside the south coast that the boat is finally in place, because it has been a concern for a very long time – and it is expressed from many parties – that for many years there has been too poor security preparedness for the violent numbers of ships crossing the sea areas outside southern Norway. Therefore this is a happy day, the boat has come into place and the matter is today for treatment. There is no reason to doubt any party's intentions in this matter, as I perceive it might have been done by a previous speaker. The progress party has been one of the lots that many times in the previous period have called for such preparedness. And so it has been said here that the government should not be used to the fact that matters are being pushed through in such a short time. But that's actually an advantage, and I think we're all aware of that. Maybe we could use the same procedure on the way, because that would help save lives both in the South and elsewhere in the country. When we have European roads without a yellow middle stripe and with many fatal accidents, there should be urgent treatment. Maybe there could be something to think about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e477	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e485	The size should then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-05.ana.ud1463e573	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
