ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e82	Former President-in-Office of the Council Guttorm Hansen Honourable co-representatives! Former staging representative and staging president Guttorm Hansen is dead, 89 years old. With the passing of Guttorm Hansen, Norway and Norwegian labour movement have lost one of the most significant parliamentarians of the postwar period and a personality more than most others have had to express the political life of our national assembly. Guttorm Hansen was born in Namsos in 1920. He himself has described the growth in Namsus as marked by sickness and poverty, but above all by solidarity. The mother died of tuberculosis when Guttorm Hansen was only three years old. That was probably also the basis for his early commitment to political work, along with a burning desire to make life better for the broad groups of the people. Guttorm Hansen worked as a mechanic from 1936 to 1945. He was a journalist and editor of the Human Friend from 1945 to 1948 and later editor of the First Post and journalist in Namdal Arbeiderblad. For ten years he worked there, while taking the first steps towards national policy. Although the war had not only changed the Workers' Party, but also Guttorm Hansen. In addition to the fight against social distress and oppression, the young Guttorm Hansen was also frightened by the cold war that was under development. That is why he became a sworn NATO supporter and later a Norwegian spokesman for the EU. Guttorm Hansen was elected to Stortinget in 1961. The son of a mechanic got a long and active political job. He became district secretary of the AUF at the age of 18. As early as 1947, he was assigned to the AUF central government. He became a member of the council of Namsos eight years later, and was placed at Stortinget in 1961. In the period from 1958 to 1961 he was alternate to the Stortinget of the Nord-Trøndelag Arbeiderparti, and thus was appointed as a permanent representative from 1961 to 1985. He was thus the biggest representative for 24 years and the biggest president for 8 years. During this period he thanked the Prime Ministers Bratteli and Nordli three times for posts in their governments. It was at Stortinget Guttorm Hansen thought it was most challenging and meaningful to be. The first periods at Stortinget put Guttorm Hansen first in the Judicial Committee and then in the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He was a member of the Labour Party for several years, later a Vice-President, and for a period he was also chairman of the Group Board of the Workers Party. In 1973 he was elected President of the Grand Duchy. He developed the work and gradually appeared with a natural ponduum as the undisputed ‘sheep’ of the National Assembly — respected by both political friends and opponents. Guttorm Hansen was also a burning nordicist, and as an elected national he sat in the Nordic Council from 1969 until he left the Stortinget in 1985. "Constitution's guardians" is a term that was commonly used about him, both while he was on the Stortinget and after he left the Stortinget in 1985. Guttorm Hansen's way of being the biggest president created school in the years that followed after he withdrew from politics. The book on Stortinget's work system, which he published together with former director Erik Mo, is still in active use. Guttorm Hansen was also a brilliant speaker, and everyone listened attentively when he went to the Stortingen pulpit. He was a keen debater as well as a great humorist. There were not a few times his posts triggered "muntiness in the hall". Guttorm Hansen enjoyed the last great respect in political Norway for his role as a politician and ideological thinker. In addition to a number of festivities and anthologies, Hansen was the author of 21 books, all written and published between 1953 and 1998. Guttorm Hansen was careful to interfere in the political debate on national political issues after he left the Storting in 1985. He did not want to be a ‘seventh father in the house’, as he said in an interview with Trønder-Avisa a few years later. Nevertheless, the working party's big group had great benefit and enjoyed Guttorm Hansen's enormous knowledge of staging and steering for many years after he left. There was never any in his mouth when we called Namsos. In addition to his political life, Guttorm Hansen also devoted much of his time to nature. He was a very committed outdoorsman and central to the protection of the Børgefjell National Park in 1963. A great man, a great politician, a highly respected parliamentarian and the President-in-Office of the Council have passed away. We remember Guttorm Hansen for everything he accomplished, his work on the Stortinge in particular, and shines peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech. Carl I. Hagen took over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e130	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Gunn Olsen from 5 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Lise Wiik, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e148	Lise Wiik is present and will take the seat. The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e153	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on the traceability of tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e158	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that, on Thursday 7 May at the end of the Annual General Meeting, the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting are held. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose that the Stortinget deal with the supplementary agenda before the ordinary agenda. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e181	No one has asked for the floor. The President proposes that it be voted on this supplementary agenda. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e192	The vote will then be taken on agenda No. Seventy-seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e203	The President asks the representatives to leave the Chamber quietly, the ones who choose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e206	I get to thank those who stay. At the moment, it is assessed by international and Norwegian health authorities that the outbreak of influenza in Mexico will not cause a highly lethal disease. Nite monitoring, sample collection, thorough analysis and functional networks to compare the results contribute to giving national health authorities an up-to-date and realistic picture of the situation. At the moment, it looks like we're going into a period of multiple infections, but where those who get sick have a relatively mild form of disease. But we're still early in the time of the virus, we can face a pandemic, and it still has to be worked to identify the properties of the new virus. In these days, we can be happy that there is a strong public network of collaborative services, with the World Health Organization in the centre. I say public networks because these are services built up by organisations that the countries have funded together, year by year, budget for budget. Only such a structure has credibility to declare that the seriousness of an outbreak can be classified in one or another category. When the world was hit by Spanish disease in 1918, there was no such network. Today, the basics are different, we're fundamentally better off, although the outbreak can be serious. In our part of the world, Norway is actively involved in cooperation with the EU Health Protection Committee on the control of influenza A, which now, after a few weeks in the signs of the pig, is the correct name of the disease. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Stockholm conducts infectious diseases monitoring and scientific advice, and is a co-player. The measures taken by the Norwegian health authorities are in line with the recommendations of the WHO and the EU. International cooperation, the laboriously built public trade union network, helps to make Norway well-equipped in the future. 2009 will be the first year since World War II with a decline in the world economy. The crisis is a global policy, including in Europe. We are witnessing dramatic numbers that have great consequences. Last night, the European Commission provided forecasts of a fall in the total GDP of EU countries of 4pst. in 2009 and unemployment up to 11 pst. Underlying tensions come to the surface and cause increasing political and social unrest. Iceland and Latvia in our immediate neighbourhoods have already been hit hard and have concluded stabilisation loans agreements with the IMF – supported by loans from, among others. Norway. Also, solid European economies are now struggling in strong counter-grounds. We should be careful to predict social and political consequences. However, this characterises the course of the crisis — it started in the financial economy, it enters the real economy after a few months, which in turn leads to social and, in some cases, political consequences. The strong increase in unemployment itself has the potential for social and political movements. We can see popular reactions that challenge apparent political stability. Norway has strong interests in the European neighbourhoods. Four fifths of Norwegian exports and imports come from or go to EU countries. Economic development in Europe concerns us. Drops in the European economy mean cases in Norwegian exports. The stability of our neighbourhoods is adversely affected by economic deterioration in important countries. And as I said – we do not know how the economic decline of the dimension we now see in more and more countries will affect society socially and politically. The crisis in the world economy challenges the EU as an organisation. There is little doubt that the EU has contributed to coordination and that EU legislation is slowing down protectionist temptations. At the same time, however, there are clear limits to what can be expected from EU cooperation. Important aspects of fiscal and economic policy are national responsibilities. The crisis affects everyone, but it affects differently – the Netherlands has an unemployment rate of less than 3 p.m., Spain is approaching 20 p.m. The crisis puts cohesion and community to the test. In many cases, conflicts of interest between Member States are obvious and there is no consensus on the political choices that can and must be made at Community level. However, the EU has been very successful in pursuing a comprehensive policy against the crisis. Eurocooperation has also proved to be robust. The situation could be more unstable if 12 to 14 currencies had fluctuated in different directions. EU economic policy and regulatory development are important for Norway. Through the EEA Agreement, we participate in the drafting of legislation, including: for financial services. And we are obliged to implement this legislation. It is essential for Norway to follow these processes very closely. Essentially, we are served by international regulation that comes out of and inspired by EU legislation. However, there is often internal disagreement about the development of this legislation in the EU, and there are extensive negotiations behind each decision. For Norway, it is difficult for a non-member to make his or her vote valid. The government has focused on these challenges and uses formal and informal channels to promote our input. EU Summit 19-20. decided to double the balance of payments support to Member States outside the euro zone. The EU has decided to expand the capital base of the International Monetary Fund by increasing its contribution to EUR 75 billion. Norway has also contributed by offering approximately NOK 30 billion in new loans to the IMF. The main international reform process takes place in the G20. The EU has a central role here, with the permanent participation of four European countries, the EU Presidency and the European Commission. Although the EU countries may disagree internally on what action needs to be taken, Europe appears to be a key driver of global policy-making. Norway participated in the G20 process and agreed with the main conclusions of the London G20 Summit: the financial market needs to be better regulated, the international financial institutions need to be reformed, and it is important to distance themselves from protectionism. The G20 focused on tax havens. The government has been working against tax havens for a long time, and there has been a lot of movement in this area. The head of the OECD recently said that more has been achieved in the fight against tax havens in the last few weeks than in the last ten years combined. It is positive that the G20 should be brought together to agree on measures against the economic crisis. However, Norway believes that it is an important principle that all countries are given the opportunity to be heard. The recommendations of the G20 must therefore be anchored in the multilateral forums in which they belong: the WTO, the IMF, the development banks and the United Nations system. Despite the dramatic global economic development, the WTO points out that there has not yet been a similar negative development in trade policy. The existing multilateral trading system has been curbed by a large increase in protectionist measures and countermeasures. But there are signs of drift in the wrong direction. The conclusion of WTO negotiations, the so-called Doha Round, is therefore important. It would send a clear signal that the Member States are prepared to resist the protectionist pressure and restrict the real freedom of countries to take protectionist measures. The result Norway is seeking, must be balanced and take care of Norwegian interests. The crisis in the world economy shows that we need a robust international legal order and a set of effective global institutions to maintain and further develop such order. The Norwegian economy and well-being are closely embedded in these global processes. The Norwegian legislation undertakes to do so through the EEA Agreement, ensuring the conditions of competition of Norwegian companies. How we want to set up welfare policy is, as you know, a national issue. At the same time, the international economy must function in order to promote efficiency and economic growth — and thus well-being. We must not lose sight of this. We must stick to a functioning internal market, and we must show solidarity with those of our neighbouring countries that are harder hit than ourselves. Together with the EU and others, we need to continue the fight against climate change and for the development of the poorest countries. In the context of Arctic Council, we made such a contribution a week ago. Under the Norwegian Presidency of the Council, leading researchers have given new insight into the global warming drama. Ice melts faster than assumed, even faster than the most serious estimates made from the IPCC a few years ago. Knowledge of climate change in the north was crucial for the IPCC conclusions. New knowledge of developments in the same areas — and elsewhere where there is ice and snow — needs to further strengthen our political capacity and willingness to act towards the Copenhagen climate negotiations in September. The elections on Iceland on 25 April gave a solid majority: 34 out of 63 all-out seats to the left, with the government parties Samfölkingen and Left Green in the head. This increases the likelihood of an Icelandic EU application. However, the ongoing government negotiations will decide on the further handling of the EU case and whether it will be necessary to hold a referendum before an application can be submitted. What about the consequences for EEA cooperation if Iceland first applies for membership? So far, the crisis in Iceland has not affected the functioning of the EEA Agreement. If Iceland decides to apply for membership, the Government will make a thorough assessment of possible consequences for Norway. I refer you to the debate we had on this matter here in the Chamber a short time ago. The EEA Agreement is the main foundation of Norway's relationship with the EU. 15 years of experience have shown that the agreement meets its main objective: to ensure predictability and equivalent framework conditions for Norwegian business and large parts of society in the EU internal market. It also provides a basis for broad cooperation for mutual benefit in areas such as the environment, health, education and research. The EEA Agreement is a viable agreement that has adapted over time. All parties have wished to maintain the agreement and to regard it as a good framework for ensuring important and comprehensive links between our countries. I see it as a clear responsibility for the Government to work systematically to ensure the functioning and integrity of the EEA Agreement. The government is conscious of this responsibility. The issue of energy security has been given even greater place in European policy in the last six months. The gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine has accelerated an already ongoing debate on better security of supply in the EU. With many new Member States that are only partially connected to the electricity and gas supply network in other Member States, the need for long-term plans for better internal energy supply lines in the EU has increased. In the economic package discussed by the EU Summit in March, the first important decisions on enhanced energy infrastructure in Europe were taken. The EU is committed to supporting the development of both electricity and gas supply networks in order to improve energy security, inter alia. the Baltic countries and Poland. At the same time, projects include: in the case of wind energy capable of strengthening Europe's own power generation. We welcome these initiatives from the Norwegian side. The EU is our most important export market for energy. Through the EEA Agreement, the EU sets an important framework for Norwegian energy policy. We are part of the internal energy market. Norway’s main contribution to Europe’s energy security is our gas exports, which are increasing. We will continue to be a stable, long-term and predictable energy supplier. In addition to improved internal energy supply networks, new sources of supply and transport for gas and electricity imported from outside are discussed in the EU. As a significant energy exporter, Norway has served with the best possible stability in the European energy market. Stability and security of supplies can only be achieved in close and clear dialogue with all supplier countries. Norway is in favour of measures to ensure energy supply in Europe and to facilitate a level playing field in price developments. The EU climate and energy package, adopted by the summit shortly before the end of the year, provides for a strong deployment of renewable energy in Europe. Such development will strengthen Europe's energy security and help combat global warming by limiting the growth of fossil energy consumption and production. As I said in my previous presentation, the EU will increase its renewable share from 8,5 pst. until 20 pst. by 2020. Norway currently has a share of about 60 pst. and therefore have a completely different starting point from the EU Member State. The EU Renewable Energy Directive is an important part of Europe’s climate and energy policy. The regulatory framework is considered to be EEA-relevant and provides both challenges and opportunities for Norway. Our already high renewable share means that we have fewer conversion options than other countries. At the same time, our natural assumptions for the production of new renewable energy are present. We still have opportunities to develop the hydropower, and we're only in the early stages of wind energy. Norwegian opportunities can be developed in cooperation with other European countries. The Renewables Directive facilitates this and will contribute to strengthening the market for renewable energy technologies. The Government is currently assessing how the Directive can be incorporated into the EEA Agreement and will negotiate with the Commission the necessary adaptations. Research and technological development is at the heart of the EU's development of renewable energy in Europe. The EU has established a separate action plan on energy technology. The priorities in the plan are largely consistent with our own priorities. This provides a basis for enhanced cooperation with the EU on new renewable energy technologies in the future, which I believe will be of mutual benefit. The EU is showing increased interest in the Arctic and Northern Europe. This is expressed in many ways. Last November, the European Commission presented a communication on the EU's relationship with the Arctic. On the basis of this Communication, the EU will launch and adopt a comprehensive policy. The geopolitical changes in the north and climate change that will change the assumptions for human activity in the Arctic lead many actors to look northwards. From the Norwegian side, we must ensure that the political and judicial instruments of governance of the Arctic are strengthened, and not weakened, in this development, and that the interests of the Arctic coastal states are safeguarded. The government believes that it is essential — and in line with Norwegian interests — to involve the EU more closely in Arctic work constructively. We therefore welcome the Commission's communication. At the same time, we must insist that the law of the sea applies in the Arctic Ocean, as the Arctic coastal states established in Ilulissat in Greenland a year ago. While the European Commission adopts a similar approach in its communication on the Arctic, the European Parliament wishes a separate Treaty for the Arctic. The government believes that such a treaty, if it means an alternative to the existing legal order, would weaken the existing regime of international law for the northern seas. We have therefore made our views known in extensive contacts with the European Parliament, the Commission and several EU countries. Here the five Arctic coastal states and all members of the Arctic Council agree. In addition, Norway will work towards the accession of the United States and Russia to international environmental conventions and contribute to their effective implementation in order to promote sustainable development in the Arctic. The government, like the EU, will also further develop current environmental protection agreements for adaptation to Arctic conditions. The EU’s focus towards the north and east coincides with prominent roles for several Nordic countries. Member States have, on a rotating basis, the temporary chairmanship of regional councils. Norway has just completed its presidency in the Arctic Council and passed the staf stick on to Denmark. Then, in two years' time, Sweden will take over. Norway, Denmark and Sweden establish a common Nordic work programme for six years with our country's chairmanship. Sweden takes over the Presidency of the Barents Council in October, and Denmark is in charge of the Baltic Sea Council until 1 July this year, when Norway takes over. In the autumn, Sweden has chaired the EU, while Denmark will organise the climate summit in December. Such a broad convergence provides the Nordic countries with good opportunities for overall, strong engagement and for putting northern Europe on the map. The government has been aware of this Nordic potential for setting the agenda. We are already seeing a significant increase in interest in the north and the Arctic throughout Europe. We also see an increase in interest in the content of cooperation between Europe and Russia in these bodies. Within the Northern Dimension, the EU, EEA countries and Russia have already developed partnership agreements in the field of health and the environment. A partnership for transport and logistics will be launched from 2010 and work is under way on a proposal for a cultural partnership. Furthermore, we see that regional structures and cross-border cooperation in Northern Europe are being used as an inspiration for other regional cooperation schemes further south. That's good. Sweden has already indicated that the EU Baltic Sea Strategy will be among the priority areas for the Swedish EU Presidency in autumn 2009. For Norway – as an EEA country, a shipping nation and managing marine resources, and as a participant in existing measures to combat organised crime – this strategy will be important. The Swedish EU Presidency will also play a central role in the start-up of the Eastern Partnership, which will be officially launched on 7 May. The aim of the partnership is to reduce the political and economic gap between Member States and non-member countries in the east. Six countries are invited to participate: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Bilaterally, the EU will work to establish free trade agreements with each country. Multilaterally, the focus will be on democracy and good governance, economic integration, energy security and people-to-people cooperation. The way to launch this week has been difficult. The Georgia crisis last year created uncertainty about Russia's further course. The economic crisis complicates the financing of actions. Membership prospects for partner countries are also a subject of controversy. At the same time, there is a recognition in the EU that a vision is needed for the future development of the area between the EU and Russia. This is also part of Norway’s neighbourhood. We have therefore expressed an interest in connection with this partnership. Let me mention here, in the context of regional cooperation in the north, an obvious issue in relation to the EU: the forthcoming decision on the prohibition of trade in cell products. Norway has worked hard and at many levels to prevent such a decision – which we believe is at the heart of sustainable management. We haven't been alone, among other things. close cooperation with other Nordic countries. I would particularly like to commend the representatives of the Stortinge for the efforts made to make our views felt in various parliamentary bodies. However, we must note that we have not succeeded. There is a noticeable distance between the outlook of decision-makers on the continent and the reality of the coastal and marine resource nation in Norway. We regret this, and we have made it clear to the European Union. I have also warned the EU Trade Commissioner that, if a comprehensive ban is adopted in the EU, Norway will consider bringing this matter before the WTO. I have been concerned with the prominent role of the Nordic countries. In this context, I would like to point out that in June 2008, Thorvald Stoltenberg was commissioned by the Nordic Foreign Ministers to produce a report with bold and long-term proposals to strengthen our foreign and security policy cooperation. The report was presented in Oslo on 9 February this year. My colleagues and I are now assessing the follow-up to the report, initially towards the next Nordic Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Reykjavik on 9 June. The report is well received in the Nordic countries, and cooperation has been put on the public agenda. The report’s 13 different proposals are designed for all countries, but two or more countries may wish to initiate cooperation between themselves. It's natural that there's different emphasis in the different capitals. The proposals may provide a basis for policy processes and innovation and may stimulate actions not mentioned in the report. It is also important to build on existing cooperation where possible. Without pre-empting the country's examination of the report's proposals, I see a good development in Nordic military cooperation, enhanced cooperation between the Nordic foreign services and increased cooperation in the field of data security. For Norway, it is also natural to take further proposals on marine monitoring with our neighbours and partners. The proposal for a Nordic declaration of solidarity will require careful evaluation and may take some time to develop. Any economic impact on the implementation of the proposals will normally be assessed in the ordinary budgetary procedures. I also assume that the report will be debated during the Nordic Council session until the autumn. As a result of European cooperation, all citizens of the EEA territory are free to travel and stay in other European countries. But many people from other parts of the world come here because they feel compelled to do so. Asylum seekers must be guaranteed fair treatment throughout Europe. Therefore, the EU proposes to develop a common European asylum system. As part of this development, the European Commission proposed in February to set up a European Asylum Support Office. The Support Office shall facilitate, coordinate and strengthen cooperation between Member States in the field of asylum. An important objective is to ensure more uniform asylum practices within the EU. Schengen cooperation involves a common area of freedom of movement without internal border control in Europe. The practice of our neighbouring countries in the field of asylum has an impact on the number of asylum seekers in Norway. We want to be part of the EU countries' discussions on asylum practices and guidelines. It is also crucial for Norway that asylum practices in the countries with which we cooperate comply with international standards. It ensures that we can safely return asylum seekers to other European countries without risk of violating fundamental rights. The Commission's proposal opens up the possibility for countries such as Norway, which have other agreements with the EU in the field of asylum, to conclude a cooperation agreement on association with the Agency. The government believes it is important to participate here. We are therefore in the process of establishing a dialogue with the Commission on a Norwegian link. Let me then mention some of the most relevant issues in EEA cooperation. I have already mentioned that EU countries agreed in December 2008 on an ambitious climate and energy package. The decisions included in the package will be an important contribution to the Copenhagen climate summit in December. It aims to integrate central parts of the climate and energy package into the EEA Agreement. There is now a process of developing Norwegian positions and the need for adaptations. The measures must be implemented in a cost-effective way, and we must have national freedom of action to succeed in our own climate policy. We have a good dialogue with the Commission with a view to taking care of Norwegian interests in this process. Another issue that has made a lot of attention lately is the EU proposal for a new Directive on consumer rights. Norway is currently able to grant better consumer rights than the minimum requirements of the EU Directives. In the proposal for a new Directive, the Commission proposes total harmonisation. This means that national law cannot provide for rules derogating from the rules of the Directive, nor for rules – in the areas that it harmonises – that go further in protecting consumers. There are considerable uncertainties about the scope of the Directive, which the Commission and the Council are now seeking clarification, and therefore also about the impact of the overall harmonisation. Our starting point is that the consumer rights under Norwegian law should be maintained overall. The government is therefore using all available channels to modify this proposal. Together with the other EEA/EFTA countries, we have developed a joint opinion expressing scepticism for total harmonisation. We also have good alliance partners among Nordic colleagues and in central EU countries. I therefore believe that the directive will be amended positively. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement obliges the Contracting Parties to review every two years the conditions governing trade in basic agricultural products with a view to gradual liberalisation. The review shall take place within the framework of national agricultural policy and be mutually beneficial. In recent years, the EU has been critical of what is perceived by the EU as a restrictive Norwegian approach to allowing for increased imports of agricultural products. Of course, we respect the obligations laid down in Article 19. We therefore started negotiations with the EU for a new Article 19 agreement for a time. Negotiations have been difficult, and there will still be some time before we can set the finish line. At the heart of EEA cooperation is cooperation with the EU on research, through the EU Framework Programmes. The government recently presented a new research report – Climate for Research. The Communication focuses on the global challenges we face in health, climate and energy. These are challenges that cannot be tackled without extensive international cooperation. For our part, there is special cooperation with our European partners. Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement 15 years ago, Norway has contributed to reducing social and economic disparities in the EEA territory. There is no legal obligation to do this, but we want to contribute to creating a Europe of solidarity and security. This is also important at a time when many fear that the crisis in the world economy will slow down – 20 years after the fall of the wall. It's in our interest, as well as in an pan-European interest. The current EEA financial instruments expired on 30 April. We are in the final phase of the negotiations on new contributions for the period 2009-2014. Negotiations have focused on the level of future contributions, the countries to receive the money, what to spend the money for and how to manage them. Our position is that a significant part of the funds must go to environmental and climate action, support for civil society, research, technology development, innovation and social dialogue. Norway has proposed to allocate a share to carbon capture and storage. We have also proposed our own fund to promote decent work and tripartite cooperation in the 'new' EU countries. We are still negotiating to put in place satisfactory formulations on partnership and further development of our bilateral cooperation with the recipient countries. In accordance with the EU's own principles of good governance, we need to participate in the design of the objectives and profiles of the programmes in a new scheme. Since the last EEA enlargement, the total contribution of the EEA/EFTA countries has been 293.4 million. EUR per head years. The Commission has required a substantial increase in that amount. We have insisted that today's contribution is significant and disappointing. Furthermore, we believe that our financial contributions must be seen in the context of a satisfactory outcome of the parallel discussions on market access for fish. The new EU countries now have experience both with EU funding and with EEA funds. Countries are involved in the work on the EU side. It's positive, but it also makes the negotiations more complicated. The solutions to the negotiations must be in the process of finding an overall package acceptable to all parties. The government will keep the bodies of the Storting constantly informed about these negotiations. The action plan in St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, which was submitted to the Stortinget in June 2006, further set out the objectives of how the Government is more offensively to take care of Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. St.meld. No 23 is the governance tool of the Government and the administration in the EU/EEA matters. The objectives of the Communication have been systematically pursued through a separate plan with a total of 96 actions. Almost all measures are currently implemented or under implementation. I would like to emphasise, in particular, enhanced communication with the Stortinget, both in plenary and in the European Committee. Other particularly important actions have been coordination within the different disciplines, the review of bilateral cooperation, enhanced contacts with EU institutions and the assessment of experience with Norwegian national experts. The European portal of government.no has been updated and improved in the autumn of 2008. The EEA Note Base was also published in the autumn of 2008. It is allocated 5.3 million for 2009. to information measures on European cooperation. The aim is to strengthen knowledge of Europe in Norwegian society, stimulate informed debate and encourage networking in Europe. The government is concerned with the good dissemination of funds between different interest groups, themes and geographical ties. We receive total applications for more than 20 million. kr, so the interest is great. In order to achieve clear priorities, focus and better coordination, annual work programmes on EEA, foreign and security policy and justice and home affairs policies are drawn up. Each department shall have its own strategic plan for its work towards the EU. 14 such plans have now been completed and published. A new comprehensive manual of EU and EEA work was available in January this year. This gives an up-to-date and good introduction to Norway’s work with the EU. Matters of particular importance to Norwegian interests and values must be brought forward to the appropriate authorities at the right time. In this context, we have noticed that the European Parliament has become increasingly involved in the formulation of EU policies. Parliament's powers will be further enhanced if the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force. In order to promote Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU, all relevant Norwegian authorities must contribute. With regard to the European Parliament, not only the Government, but also the Storting and the political parties can play an important role. The government wants greater transparency and broad dialogue on European issues in Norwegian society. It is important that different levels of authority and all parts of society engage in such issues. Every year we have implemented a number of permanent European forums with participation from among others. voluntary organisations, research environments, social partners and regional and local authorities. The annual European Conference totals nearly 600 participants last year. The conference of the year later this month should also arouse broad interest. Finally, the government decides in St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, interests, responsibilities and opportunities. Main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, that Norway is closely interwoven with Europe; yes, our close links with European countries and the EU go as a red thread through this Communication. Issues that were previously addressed at national level have become Europeanised and policy and regulatory design is increasingly being developed in a European framework. This significantly affects Norwegian policy and regulatory design. Although the economic crisis challenges both the EU countries and the Community institutions, European cooperation is not less important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e364	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e378	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e385	It is a utopian belief that poverty can be combated without the participation of business. This quote is from Kofi Annan, and I think it's an excellent way to start this debate with just that business has to be part of the solution to the global challenges we're facing. This is also the starting point for the big picture we are discussing today — a positive view of business opportunities to contribute to development in poor countries. Activism is not just about following law and order, for example. not to engage in corruption or money laundering or underpaid workers. Nor is it about giving a small part of their profits to charity. For example, companies that rage the rainforest, but buy schoolbooks for the children who live there, are not social leaders. The world does not move forward by avoiding breaking laws and norms. The world does not go forward either by buying us free with mild gifts. The world is only moving forward through businesses that understand that they are dependent on a viable, sustainable society and that contribute to building such societies. The companies that take their social responsibility seriously are the companies that are concerned that the whole business should put a positive foothold behind it. Business leaders understand that business cannot succeed in failing societies. In practice, it means understanding how today’s biggest challenges – climate change, water scarcity, pandemics, migration, poverty and corruption – affect the enterprise, how they threaten the enterprise, and how the enterprise can be part of the solution to the problems. Those who are really good at social responsibility make it a competitive advantage. Therefore, it is also so very happy to see that more and more companies realize that they cannot operate in a vacuum without understanding and taking into account the world around them. Although this is the first big message we're promoting on the topic, it doesn't mean that this is new to those who are involved, i.e. the businesses. And Norway has a lot of big companies that are leaders in social responsibility, and Norwegian employees' and employers' organisations and civil society have been working on the subject for a long time. We have guards here at home who have successfully debated and forced both businesses and politicians to put social responsibility on the agenda. The authorities have also been on the job for a while, but now is the first time we have put together the efforts that have been made, together with proposals for new measures and visions for where we want to go in one place, precisely in this communication. It has contributed — and will hopefully continue to contribute — to increased debate on the issue. It is also gratifying with feedback that people think the message is a very good ABC, a sort of look-up for those who want to work seriously with social responsibility. The Communication provides a good basis for how we, as authorities, should contribute to the work of a more socially responsible business in the future. Authorities have several roles to play. We are the legislator, we are often the owner, the investor, the buyer, the organizer and the partner. Therefore, it is also important that this Communication outlines how the authorities should exercise and facilitate social responsibility in all these different roles. It is obvious that the State is taking the lead, for example. by ensuring that expectations about societal behaviour are clearly communicated and followed up in companies where the state is the owner and has the power to do something about it. We're going to use the tools that the active ownership gives us to make sure that Norwegian state companies go ahead. Then, through a series of measures, we are going to stimulate awareness of social responsibility in general across all business. We also introduce extended reporting requirements into the Accounting Act, so that companies also start reporting on social responsibility. We believe that imposing companies to assess their own activities along this dimension will stimulate more companies to become aware of what issues of social responsibility are relevant to their activities, and hence they can identify challenges and opportunities and create change. It will also make it easier for civil society and individuals to obtain information and an overview of how Norwegian companies manage their social responsibility. I am pleased that the entire Committee agrees that when such new reporting requirements are to be developed, it must be done in a way that actually contributes to the development of businesses and that reporting is not an end in itself and an additional burden on companies. For this reason, we also ask the Government to see, for example, in its comments. to Denmark and the United Kingdom, where such qualitative reporting requirements are in place and which challenge enterprises to assess their own activities. Unfortunately, this is not the way all enterprises behave. We have far too many ghastly examples of human rights being violated, the environment being destroyed, and poorer countries becoming even poorer because powerful businesses are contributing to, for example, the environment. maintaining corrupt traditions and underpaid workers. This can't be solved overnight. But we're going to contribute to increased transparency. Enterprises that violate such standards will have fewer places to hide, and organisations that fight for human rights and the environment will have channels to bring up and forward their criticisms and concerns. That is why we are also proposing to strengthen the OECD contact point. We should better facilitate addressing Norwegian companies' breaches of OECD guidelines. We shall also examine whether it is appropriate to have a separate representative for social responsibility, as many organisations have called for in our consultation rounds. Now, when we ask the Government to take a closer look at that proposal, it is an expression that we in the Storting are responsive, and that we are actually concerned about the good recordings we have received in the hearings. This is interesting to look at, and we're going to do that, but we haven't yet concluded. Some believe that the financial crisis requires social responsibility to be lowered in business. On the contrary, I would say. It is now that we need to intensify work on social responsibility, and there are at least two reasons for it. Firstly, in times of crisis, human rights are most vulnerable and the environment suffers from the altar of short-termity. Then it is our responsibility as authorities to do what we can to help ensure that, despite difficult times, respect for basic standards, for human rights and the environment is maintained. The second is that large parts of business are now in a sort of trust crisis, and society's trust in businesses and business leaders is severely weakened in the wake of the financial crisis. This trust cannot be regained without slow, but it certainly proves to be trusted as responsible and long-term actors that take into account the interests of society. We have a vision of a stronger global framework for corporate social responsibility. That's why we're going to work for the global framework and guidelines for corporate human rights responsibilities, as it is now working in the United Nations under the leadership of Special Representative John Ruggie. It is an objective to put in place strong and concrete frameworks that promote increased social responsibility and transparency in business globally. Norway will therefore be a driving force in this work in the international arena, rather than introducing special Norwegian rules that will only apply to Norwegian enterprises. UN Special Representative Ruggie is leading an important work and a pioneering process in this area. Last April, Ruggie made a report to the Human Rights Council. The report establishes three indivisible principles: the State is responsible for protecting against human rights violations committed by third parties; the business community is responsible for respecting human rights in countries where they operate; and there is a need to establish more effective systems for compensation where violations occur. Norway has already supported this work for a long time, and we state in the Communication that we will continue to do so with increased efforts. Here we're going to have ambitions. We can, if we want, contribute in this area, as we did, and where we were leading, in the work on the ban on the class weapons. That process showed that we can be a driver and we can succeed. On the 70th anniversary of Gro Harlem Brundtland, Hillary Clinton said in a video greeting to Gro at the National Labour Party meeting that she was impressed by Norway’s ability to ‘punch above its weight’. When it comes to business and human rights, we can once again prove that she's right. We expect more from business than that it doesn't break the law, that it doesn't violate human rights, that it doesn't destroy the world. This government is also clear that we are demanding business, that we have expectations – but above all, we are also clear that the world's poorest and world's future needs to make the knowledge and resources of businesses contribute to a better future. This big message is a good start to an intensified effort to promote social responsibility by the authorities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e413	The vast majority of Norwegian enterprises today take social responsibility seriously in their daily activities. This may, of course, be due to the fact that their behaviour is subject to both media searchlights and public space debate. But I still think it's more and more often because the companies themselves see themselves profited from acting in a proper and tidy way, even on the international arena. However, it is essential that, in the process of focusing on and promoting attitudes towards a larger corporate exposure to social responsibility, special regulation and rules that can lead to a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies are not addressed. It is important to stress, as is also done in the Single European Act, that social responsibility is defined as what enterprises do on a voluntary basis, in addition to complying with existing laws and regulations in the country in which they operate. A unanimous committee has endorsed the Communication's view that the protection of human rights, respect for fundamental workers' rights and decent working conditions, environmental considerations, the fight against corruption and maximum transparency are, of course, for companies to discharge their social responsibility in international activities. It is very positive to see that many companies that really take their social responsibility seriously are trying as hard as they can to deal with local challenges and are striving to put as positive a footprint as possible in the countries in which they operate — and that they see the value of this, both in the short and long term. It is particularly positive that a unanimous committee clearly states that industry's investment in developing countries, together with increased trade, is a prerequisite for development and poverty reduction when properly done. The globalisation we have had for many years has lifted billions of people out of poverty. The free and open world trade of open economies and free enterprises in which fundamental human rights were respected are important explanations of both technological progress and poverty reduction. Today's announcement of cancellation defines social responsibility as what companies are doing on a voluntary basis, in addition to complying with laws and regulations. However, the government's own proposals on extended disclosure obligations, on ethical guidelines and social responsibility in the Accounting Act are very poorly harmonised with this voluntary nature. Norwegian farms have per 100 000 inhabitants. today more than enough to do with meeting information requirements in public laws and regulations, and using considerable resources in this work. New reporting requirements will further exacerbate this situation and may also have significant distortive effects on Norwegian exposures to competitive industries internationally. This, in turn, may lead to Norwegian companies being out-competitive by firms from other countries with much lower standards in this area, and may lead to the good intentions being out-of-date. It is important to have the most realistic approach to how it can be possible to gain a more international understanding of corporate social responsibility globally. We share the basic idea behind the ILO core conventions, but believe that, in addition to this, developing countries need to be provided with sufficient political space to differentiate between wage and salary conditions based on the level of development of their respective countries. In the poorest developing countries there is a great need for large investment. Extensive wage-fixing requirements could lead to a lack of investment, thus missing out on positive economic developments. Also in this area, the good intentions can unfortunately seem bleak to the intent, something we have to take over and be aware of. I am pleased that cross-politicians are concerned that companies should be conscious of their social responsibility, especially when acting internationally. However, there are some different approaches to making Norwegian enterprises best aware in this context. It is our opinion that this best will be achieved on a voluntary basis without its own Norwegian laws, regulations, reporting requirements and other anti-competitive measures, which unfortunately will often exclude Norwegian companies from many places and ensure that enterprises from other countries take over without such responsibility. This is not what we or developing countries deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e428	The right is pleased with the increased attention to corporate social responsibility and sees the Government’s big message as the basis for a useful discussion. It is important to be aware of the primary responsibility of business towards shareholders and owners. We are therefore pleased that the Communication emphasises the voluntary work of industry with social responsibility, and that the Government emphasises international influence over national specific rules. The right is fundamental to free and open world trade, and believes that Norwegian businesses also contribute significantly to lifting other countries and people out of poverty. The right is sceptical about extending the reporting obligation to community responsibilities. Reporting is now suitable to meet this need, and we do not want to impose more tasks on businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e437	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government for submitting a communication that has led to a debate in a very important field. Hopefully, this public debate will continue, because it is needed, especially in the wake of the financial crisis. Established with market fundamentalism and predatory capitalism at home, there will be a need for even more offensive measures and for good action to be further developed. Because it's true, as the government says, that companies influence the social development in which they operate. This message is therefore, as the rapporteur underlined, a very good start to offensive work. Furthermore, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Anette Trettebergstien, for the work she has done, and for a very clear and good contribution here in the Chamber. Together with the Committee, she has contributed to the further development of the message, including: by raising the question of the need to investigate an ombudsmanship system, as raised by many in civil society. And not least, Stortinget should thank a awake and impatient civil society, which has for several years called for action and acted as a watchtower. It was e.g. Forum for Development and Environment, which found that Aker Kværner was making money to contribute to human rights violations at Guantanamo. They reported this to the Ethics Council of the U.D., which took it seriously and pointed to the need for better guidelines for industry's international investment. This has also been a theme for several of Erling Borgen's documentaries, including the in ‘A small piece of Norway’. It also shows how important it is for the media to be on the road in this context. Many Norwegian businesses are investors that lead to more propriety and less poverty, but one cannot ignore the fact that there are companies that make money to contribute to the violation of human rights, and that poor workers without legal protection sacrifice life and health so that the company can take out short-term profits or earn money from destruction. Perhaps the host country or community is left with the social and environmental costs. We have, as the rapporteur said, some ghastly examples of that happening. That is why this message is necessary and that is why it must be followed up with offensive measures in the further work. A strong civil society, including a strong trade union movement with knowledge and willingness to raise the debates, is a prerequisite for further development. This applies here in Norway, and not least in developing countries. It is therefore important to use development funds to strengthen civil society and to support tough and courageous organisations and professional movements in countries where this is controversial. And then it's important that we follow up ILO's work and ILO's core conventions. I would like to pay tribute to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who organized the seminar on a decent working life before Christmas. I'm sure there's a lot of good work done in many companies. I want to mention one company in particular, Storebrand, which has been offensive and social for many years and thus an example that other companies can reach out to. And then I want to show that for years the NHO has been clear that ethical guidelines are needed for this work. A stronger business and more trade is a prerequisite for countries to get out of poverty and achieve a development that serves the population of the country. And then what the rapporteur said is, this is the tone of this message. But that's not a sufficient assumption. Investment and trade regimes must not take from poor countries the political space that Norway had when we rose from being a poor country to becoming one of the richest countries in the world. This implies the right to protect their business and to have access to their own resources. For this reason, it is good that Norway contributes to the renegotiation of contracts with multinational companies, such as Norway. is involved in copper extraction in Zambia, and Norway is participating in the EIT, which works for greater transparency in the extractive industries. That is why we in SV are pleased that a new round of trade agreements with Colombia is now taking place, a country with serious violations of professional rights. Corporate social responsibility is about both voluntary actions and solutions that give business flexibility and encourage creativity and the exploitation of its own resources, contribute to empowerment, positive competition and provide the basis for a good dialogue between business, authorities and civil society. In the long term, however, it is also about binding laws and rules that are necessary to ensure that work is carried out seriously in all enterprises, that there are societal reasons that preside over social responsibility and that breaches of guidelines must have some consequences. The government is working for an internationally binding regulation on social responsibility, and that is very good. At the same time, we in SV believe that we must also take greater responsibility nationally. The Government shall submit a proposal on disclosure obligations with regard to ethical guidelines and societal responsibilities. That's good. Then we are concerned that it means an actual reporting of the company's position and concrete work, and that the trade union movement and employees are included in this work. I think the case rapporteur has been briefed on exactly this in a very good way. I support what she said. The fact that the OECD's contact point receives a new model and is strengthened is also good. Furthermore, the message is clear that companies with State ownership are the leaders in taking social responsibility, which means active ownership, is also good. It will have some consequences for Norway as a weapon producer and exporter, as pointed out by the Church’s Emergency Aid in its consultation response to the Committee. We are also pleased that the public sector is going ahead by looking for products that have been manufactured to high and environmental standards. Norway’s efforts to combat tax havens and illegal capital flows are something to be proud of — it was also a theme in the Foreign Minister’s presentation today. And, as he said then, the other country has joined this, among other things. The G20 countries. It is important that it leads to action and not just word. Paying taxes is perhaps the prime expression of companies taking social responsibility. It is this tax that can pay for schools, health care and strengthen the role of the country in many developing countries. The revenue of the State and the transparency around it are prerequisites for development. This will be a topic when we deal with the development message as well. The Committee has asked the Government to assess an ombudsman regime. Many organisations have so requested and the Development Committee has concluded that an ombudsman system should be set up. In the SV’s work programme for the next four years, we are in favour of an ombudsman scheme. An agent should have a monitoring function and contribute to information and advice. The monitoring function should include assessing allegations of involvement in human rights violations, serious environmental damage or other ethical breaches, but also contributing to cleaning if it appears that the allegations are unjustified. The Ombudsman should have a right to internal company information, a transparency centre, similar to other public representatives. And last but not least, it should be an advisory service for companies that are in, or want to establish themselves in, the rest of the world. It will be useful for small and medium-sized enterprises. I want to fully join the case rapporteur when she says that this message is a first and important step to clarify the corporate social responsibility internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e467	For the Christian People's Party, it's of course that taking social responsibility is more than avoiding crime. This applies both to individuals, to businesses and to the country. There's a difference between law and ethics. The ethical responsibility goes beyond following the law. The emphasis that companies have such social responsibility is shared by everyone here in the Storting, although there is some disagreement about how we should strengthen this responsibility. Firstly, the authorities shall have high expectations of Norwegian enterprises and shall ensure that enterprises in which the country is involved as owner or investor take precedence. Secondly, the authorities shall stimulate awareness of societal behaviour through a number of measures, including an extension of the reporting requirements of the Accounting Act. Thirdly, Norway should be a driver of international corporate social responsibility, including: by developing international guidelines to promote this. Let me stress that many Norwegian companies take their social responsibility seriously and operate in line with good principles in their foreign exposures. During the committee consultation, we received many good examples of this. But more can be done to ensure the minimum standards of those who do not take their responsibilities seriously. In the absence of full agreement on measures to promote the social responsibility of private enterprises, there is a cross-political consensus that, in its role as an investor, owner and purchaser, the State should play a leading role in the exercise of such responsibilities. It is also agreed that Norwegian companies and authorities need to focus more on ethical requirements in the procurement processes. Administrations can help private enterprises by disseminating knowledge, information and help to strengthen corporate social responsibility work — even when operating abroad. Such assistance is particularly useful for small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have access to the same competences and investigative resources as large companies. Everyone agrees on this, and everyone, except the members of the Progress Party, sees the need for us to set aside resources to do what we all want. Through our means of assistance, we have been able to strengthen civil society in a number of developing countries. It is a very important goal, also for our future development policy. All, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, believe that Norway must continue to provide support to organisations and trade unions in developing countries in order to monitor corporate social responsibility and contribute to the respect of legislation and guidelines. The Christian People's Party values the many input from the hearing bodies. Several have supported the idea of a separate representative of corporate social responsibility, as encouraged by the Development Committee in its NOU 2008:14, Consulted for Development? We have reached an agreement to ask the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of this. The Christian People's Party, for its part, will decide on the assessment when it comes from the Government. We are in order to extend the reporting obligation of companies in the Accounting Act to include reporting in this area. But we assume that it is designed in close contact with business organisations, and in a way that is practical and effective. If it just creates increased paperwork, it has nothing to do with it. Here we can learn from the new Danish reporting rules and the British Companies Act. They show that it is possible to achieve qualitative and relevant reporting that promotes real improvements in enterprises, and that is what is intended. A positive added effect is that customers, investors and society will be provided with better information on corporate social responsibility. The main thing is that industry is a crucial asset in society both in terms of material values and in terms of non-material values, in terms of responsible, ethical societal and good corporate culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e495	Let me also start by saying a thousand thanks to the representative of Tretenbergstuen, who has been responsible for the matter. It's been an exciting process, and it's not hard for the Center Party to join the post she's been holding here today. Corporate social responsibility is not something we've invented in recent years, companies have always influenced the social development in which they operate. The physical proximity of the management to the employees and the place of production has historically contributed to the natural care of social responsibility in many cases and a fully integrated part of the activity. In the globalised economy where management is often remote from production and employees, it appears necessary to develop new instruments to ensure that human rights, the environment, workers' rights, etc. are taken into account. and to combat corruption, child labour, forced labour and discrimination. And in this perspective, the message of corporate social responsibility is important. This is the first message ever written. I'm pretty sure it's not going to be the last one. This is a topic of increasing attention in all countries, and it is a theme that will become more comprehensive in international cooperation in the future. It is clear that businesses must comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate. The challenge lies in the fact that very many countries have poor and weak legislation and non-existent legislation. The message defines corporate social responsibility on a voluntary basis in addition to complying with existing laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate. In many places in the world, this is precisely the fundamental, because the law, the law, is so far from enough to take care of the concerns we have in this context. The Committee expects companies to integrate corporate social responsibility across the whole chain of business and in the daily operation at all levels and to have good follow-up procedures for suppliers, seas if they are not expressed in binding laws and regulations. What we're saying with this is that we're concerned that social responsibility is going to be more than pie sticks, it's going to be reality. It is, of course, very easy to keep wise and sensible and good posts about this in the Storting, it is far worse to carry out what we say, in the practical reality – and I think that it is important that we also have respect for it. But fortunately, it is becoming increasingly important for companies' reputation to take on social responsibility, sailing if it is demanding in many places. The aim must be to violate ethical conduct “bad for business” and vice versa, that ethical behaviour and social responsibility become a competitive advantage. The centre party believes it is possible to go far with the volunteer line that the Government and the majority of the population set up. The question, however, is how far to go in making more binding national and international guidelines, and whether we should dry up thinking that once in the future, that is the way we want to go. This will also mean that we need to think carefully about which follow-up mechanisms and sanctions can be used. What is clear, however, is that we need to develop further the guidelines on social responsibility that exist internationally. We need to continuously strengthen the universal values and norms reflected in the work done and done, in the UN and in the OECD system. The government is responsible for contributing to this follow-up and, hopefully, will become more offensive in the long term. The business community also has a responsibility to record constructively in these processes, so that there is no desk work we do. From an enterprise perspective, it may well be said that this influence work in itself is an important job to do in order to discharge social responsibility. Civil society is fortunate to do as it wills – that's why it's a civil society. But I think it's important that civil society continues to do the important influence it's done in this area now. The centre party, as a majority, is committed to strengthening the national focal point for the follow-up to OECD guidelines and to making a thorough assessment of the issue of its own representative. We in the Center Party believe that an agent can be right, and look at it positively, but we're going to look at the evaluations that are being made by the Department in the future. It is only through an interaction between government, business and civil society that we can contribute to the better care of social responsibility than today. The good examples have to be made visible, the bad ones have to be turned on. As consumers, we all have a responsibility to choose products and services that can prove that they are produced in such a way that social responsibility is respected. In some ways, business can not only take the benefits of living in a globalised economy, they must also be involved in solving the problems created – and we must make demands on them. Because we're talking about problems. Corruption, forced labour and environmental degradation are problems that the globalised economy can reinforce. Then the players who primarily serve on the globalised economy must accept that they must be involved in solving the problems. Thankfully, many people will thank you. I think it is gratifying to see how social responsibility is getting higher and higher on the business agenda and increasingly being integrated not only into governance, but also into day-to-day operations. We have to hope that one day we get there that all companies see the care of social responsibility as necessary to run a good and profitable store.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e518	I find it positive that the government is submitting this message. The effort made over several years to promote corporate social responsibility is made clear by the fact that it is referred to collectively in a global report — for the first time. I agree that the state commitment to corporate social responsibility should be stepped up. At the same time, I realise that central challenges related to corporate social responsibility cannot be solved by the state through regulation alone. This must be done in close cooperation with industry, workers and civil society. The left considers that economic development is an important prerequisite for promoting development in a country. The involvement of Norwegian business abroad can thus have a positive impact on the economy and development of the host country. SMEs in particular can play a major role. They attract local resources and labour, they promote entrepreneurship and they contribute to a varied business life that has more to do with it. This gives strength to a middle class that wants calm and stable political conditions. The left believes that companies have a separate responsibility to influence the society they're part of, in a positive direction. This is usually also in their commercial interest, as consumers, investors and employees increasingly focus on just social responsibility. The left may have more faith in volunteering than in laws and sanctions to promote corporate social responsibility. However, businesses face a challenge. They can make the premise for social responsibility themselves, by fulfilling it by voluntary means. But if they don't deliver, they're in danger of getting three rigid laws and rules down over their heads. For: If Norwegian companies are taken into account in acting irresponsible, we may be subjected to a major political pressure to adopt stricter laws and regulations. The father is therefore present for an overreaction based on a specific case, which is then raised in the media. As a result, industry has a great interest in complying. Enterprises shall not limit themselves to meeting minimum standards in countries in which they operate. These standards are often very low and are also vaguely defined. This provides opportunities for circumvention. The left believes that social responsibility should be more than just following the law in force or exercising charity, for that matter. Social responsibility is characterised by the voluntary nature of the enterprise, in addition to compliance with existing laws and regulations. The ambition should be to have the best possible footprint in the countries in which they operate. The left considers that Norwegian companies should initially meet the same ethical requirements imposed on them at home. This applies not least to enterprises that are large and dominant in poor governance countries. They are expected to work to improve the human rights situation and the governance of the host country in addition to their own activities and neighbourhoods. Furthermore, companies bear a responsibility vis-à-vis subcontractors. We were able to see this with all possible clarity in connection with Telenor's investment in Bangladesh. It appeared that the company had taken something too lightly on critical relationships with subcontractors. This shows that corporate social responsibility does not end at the gate. It continues upward and downward along the value chain. This is something all Norwegian companies should take over. In today's media world, companies that do not show this social responsibility will soon be able to be severely punished by consumers and customers. This is something any company has to deal with, as bold press headlines about the lack of social responsibility can cause great damage to the reputation of the company. But the fear of being exposed and suspended in the press should not be the only driving force for companies to show social responsibility. It should actually be a goal in itself to keep a high ethical level. This requires clear leadership. Furthermore, corporate governance should integrate societal responsibilities across the whole chain of activities, including daily operations at all levels. Everyone in the enterprise should receive thorough training in this regard and those taking shortcuts should not be rewarded. In general, all those taking vocational education should have ethics as an important theme within their curriculum. I am concerned that companies should not limit themselves to well-polished formulations on social responsibility on glossy websites made by professional media professionals. The fine words must be translated into practice. They must be included in the difficult choices and considerations made by the company. Fine websites shall not be a shellhouse for enterprises that fail to discharge social responsibility. At one particular point, the left has to mark itself with a comment in the setting, which we're all alone about. The Committee points out that it is necessary for the State, in its role as investor, owner or purchaser, to play a leading role in the exercise of social responsibility. This work needs to be intensified. Furthermore, the Communication explains how to place greater emphasis on social responsibility in the active state ownership. The left does not disagree with this. At the same time, however, we believe that there should initially be no binding requirements for public enterprises other than private ones. The same rules should apply to all regardless of ownership. Different rules will create confusion about the framework conditions for enterprises that are partly State owned and partly private owned. Another important issue for us is that the Government, on the basis of given criteria, should be selective in the use of public support schemes for Norwegian enterprises’ external involvement. Access to export credits, support through Innovation Norway, participation in official business delegations or assistance from Norwegian foreign stations should be accompanied by good societal responsibilities. Non-executive enterprises should not be able to attract all State schemes. In order to avoid the assessment of the individual enterprise on the basis of a loose view, it is appropriate to provide a set of criteria on the basis of what is considered to be socially responsible behaviour. Furthermore, I would like to express support for the pre-sale to strengthen the reporting requirement of enterprises and institutional investors regarding ethical challenges in foreign operations. I am here concerned that there are concrete requirements for reporting. Companies are not supposed to write just one sentence or two in an annual report. I believe that the Government should consider drawing up these specific guidelines. They shall make clear the Government's expectations of ethical conduct, which should at least be in line with the United Nations Global Compact. Enterprises shall, on their side, explain the standards, guidelines or principles they follow, the systems or procedures used and what they have achieved. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government should consider establishing a system for assessing and ranking the ethical activities of individual enterprises — ‘positive screening’. This information should be made publicly available so that it can be included in the decision-making basis for potential clients and investors. It must be assumed that the requirements of the enterprises are clear and predictable. In the end, the left is a party that, above all, believes in openness in this. I believe that just transparency will be an important tool to promote corporate social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e562	I would first like to commend the Committee and the rapporteur in particular for a thorough attitude, wise and good judgment and important signs of follow-up. Let me first say that we had a thorough discussion in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if we were to make such a message. What is the value of a message, which in itself does not end up with a wide range of decisions that are either to be exchanged in laws or rules? It was an interesting discussion, because it made clear what forms of society, what sets criteria and norms in development that can affect social development without necessarily end up in a law. I read the Committee's assessment of this Communication in the sense that it has contributed to it: updating the understanding of social responsibility, the international trends involved, how this affects us and how we can adapt. I stress that there is a message of great consensus, but I notice that the Progress Party also has a different approach to what forms society, and that in areas where clarity in values and expectations that do not necessarily have a law attached to them, the Progress Party is also against it. I think the considerations about what can contribute to development in the south are particularly interesting to read in this context. It is not that we propose in the communication or in international bodies that there should be detailed regulation of the development and behaviour of companies in the south. What is at stake are standards and ethical guidelines, and it is important to have international devices such as the ILO and the UN, which can contribute to respect for human rights and work. Then I will also praise those in civil society who have contributed input to this process. They've mobilized in many different camps, and it's positive. I would also like to highlight, in particular, the companies that have developed their own expertise in this area internally and which have actually been in the forefront and have made demands that the authorities also follow up. The representative Valle mentioned Storebrand as an example. In the past, I have had the pleasure of being present at several of the events they have had about this, where we have actually seen that a company can also put pressure on – and have expectations for – the authorities to develop legislation, standards and understanding in line with what they are experiencing. When we state in the notice that Norway is going to be a driver in international processes dealing with social responsibility, I would say that it is about authorities, but it is also about businesses. We believe that binding guidelines on corporate behaviour are best created within established global bodies such as the UN. It is positive, I think, that the Committee shares this view. It is positive that a specific reference is made to the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Human Rights and Business. It's an important function. This representative has also proved to be an active person who can set important agendas. We're going to continue to support him in what he's doing. So I want to bring forward the work that is associated with the big message, namely the ambitions to contribute to decent working life. We had this Descent Work conference last year. We're now following up with LO and NHO. I intend to attend the important ILO meetings on this in June to take that agenda further. We contribute to the ILO by 100 million. DKK over two years, to be paid, among other things. to promote equality and women's rights at work and to combat forced labour and trafficking in human beings. Once again, by setting standards and focusing on them, such an organisation can help to change a trend that is degrading to a wide range of people. Another important theme of the Communication, and internationally, is to strengthen access to effective complaint mechanisms. This is one of the pillars of the work of the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative. He assesses how to improve victims' chances of indicting human rights violations globally, at national and company level. The notification then alerts an investigation into a system to establish a factual basis in the event of a serious breach of environmental practices by enterprises. Here, with the support of Norway, OECD and UN professionals, they have come together with companies, organisations and researchers to discuss the possibilities for this. A Joint Committee has asked the Government to consider whether it might be appropriate to establish an ombudsman function for corporate social responsibility. Of course, we'll follow up on this. I think it's wise to go forward in that way that we have now received the Committee's assessment, a feedback to the Government, and that we then make a thorough assessment of it. We shall be careful to put in place arrangements and rules and red tape for the rules and for the sake of bureaucracy. It must be thoroughly evaluated and discussed with those concerned. I think that in the broad approach and consensus that applies here, we're going to get to it in a way that the companies involved will recognize themselves in. The main instrument we have for following up corporate social responsibility abroad today is the national focal point of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Companies. The Committee is united on the need to strengthen this contact point. I'm glad. We have recently held a meeting on this in the Compact, which is the Government's consultative body. We have the intention to strengthen procedures, assess a new composition and increase resources at this point of contact. We have, as several of the representatives have called for, met with the Netherlands and the United Kingdom to learn from the experience of these countries in organising their national contact points. We want a seminar on these issues where different models are outlined. As promised in the Communication, this will result in a hearing of interested parties before the summer. So I want to spend some time on a topic that gets good attention in the Committee's position, and that we address in the Communication, namely social responsibility reporting. It is positive that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal on reporting obligations. I don't think it should be seen as unnecessary bureaucracy. This has business routines for, and I think that's going to be very straightforward. The aim of extending the reporting obligation is to contribute to increased awareness and progress in corporate social responsibility. We provide reporting as a tool for social responsibility, not as an empty ritual, as the majority of the committee also points out. So the majority believe that the government has to do more than ask companies to report on ethical guidelines and how these are followed up. The majority believe that the Government should assess the Danish and British models in its reporting requirements. We'll do this. The Norwegian Accounting Act already includes information requirements on the environment, employees and gender equality to the extent necessary to understand the company's development, position or performance. Existing Norwegian requirements in this area go significantly beyond, for example: the British Company Act. Finally, I would like to comment on a challenging theme, which the Committee has noted in the hearing, namely the responsibility of companies in conflict zones. It's companies operating in areas with weapons and other conflicts. They have a particular responsibility not to participate in violations of humanitarian law, as the Committee points out. Both export control rules and international certification and monitoring mechanisms aim at preventing violations of humanitarian law in the context of armed conflict. In addition, this is important for disseminating knowledge of humanitarian law, so that we can ensure that companies operating in conflict areas can make rules and have a high level of awareness of their responsibilities and role. Furthermore, Norway supports voluntary initiatives that may reduce the risk of human rights violations in conflict areas. The use of security guards in the oil, gas and mining industries is widespread, and their behaviour and responsibilities are the focus of so-called Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Norway – StatoilHydro and Norsk Hydro – are included. We have encouraged other companies to look at these principles and apply relevant parts of their business. So I'll finally say, as has been said by several people here, among other things. by the representative Haga, who in his time helped us to start working on this message: this is not the final line. Work on social responsibility requires sustained efforts. I think it was time to make a message – and the thorough process it gives us the opportunity to implement. The Committee's approach shows that we have important tasks ahead of us, and we will maintain close contact with both the Storting and affected environments in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e607	In the Communication, the government defines social responsibility as it does on a voluntary basis in addition to complying with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates. In spite of this, the Government is nevertheless calling for an extended obligation to provide information on ethical guidelines and social responsibility in the Accounting Act, which will lead to more work for businesses and will clearly distort competition. Is this a glitch of the Government? Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain how these obvious contradictions are linked?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e612	I don't think it's a mistake. It is a follow-up to the message's ambition to make the right choice of objectives and means. When we underline volunteering, it's because we believe that a company that has a high awareness of social aspects of work will further promote the social sides. While there are a wide range of laws and regulations on the environment, health and safety that contribute to a good working environment and that companies are required to comply with, corporate social responsibility must be part of the integrated attitudes and ethics of enterprises – that is why we have placed emphasis on volunteering. But, as I said, the functioning of businesses is in a state of law where there are laws and rules, where we want an overview, and where we want to set standard requirements. Therefore, reporting is a way of contributing to awareness of this. The reporting itself cannot guarantee that companies meet both their own and international requirements, but it helps to keep a focus and create practices in companies on how to follow rules and ethical standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e619	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e622	My wife is the daughter of a British industrial worker. Her father served for his life at the Dunlop rubber goods factory in Manchester. The first few years after we moved here to Norway, rather exactly 40 years ago, we lived at Buøy in Stavanger, right in front of Rosenberg yard. One of the first days after arriving in the country, she stood by the window and considered the yard workers who went home from work, and she wondered – they went freshly washed from the workplace. They were clean in the clothes! My wife had never seen such industrial workers before. In England, industrial workers, including her father, had shit under their nails when they left the workplace. There's a lot of water in the sea since then, but to me this is still an image of the difference between societies where the trade movement has traditionally been strong, and societies where the professional rights are neglected. Today Norwegian workers have occupied the boardrooms without any further wrinkles on the nose of this land in the country, but in Tanzania and Zambia it is quite pointless to try to explain our corporate democracy. Our social model with a working and business life with work partners who largely live in peace and in cooperation with each other has itself become an export article. Without a responsible business life and a responsible professional movement, and without an understanding of basic professional rights, Norway would today be a completely different and more contrasting society than a society with the harmony of Norwegian working life. Respect for basic professional rights for workers and decent working conditions is, of course, also an important element of the Government’s announcement of corporate social responsibility in a globalised economy — knowing that we also have some companies in Norway that do our best to break the social contract that most of us take for granted. I am quite sure that our working life model is and can be a competitive advantage for Norwegian companies competing in an international market. The overall reputation of businesses is essential, but then, of course, there must be consistency between life and learning – not to say, what we do at home, and what we do outside. In particular, these companies are wholly or partly owned by the State, which, according to the majority of the Committees, have a special obligation to show social responsibility. I have to say that I am not very proud that our second most important international company, StatoilHydro, has two hands and accepts that their contracting partner in the North Sea is flagging out their ships, throwing Norwegian seafarers on land and replacing them with an underpaid Filipino team. What can we expect from a state company that operates in this way at home, when it operates under other skyscrapers where you have hardly heard of professional rights? I therefore feel there is reason to stress our common expectation that social responsibility should be integrated into the entire business chain of the company and into the daily operations at all levels. Furthermore, the Committee expects companies to have good follow-up procedures with suppliers, even where this is not expressed in binding laws and regulations. If the board and the management of StatoilHydro are not aware of this, someone should make sure that they do. We require Norwegian companies that compete abroad to comply with the laws and regulations of the host country, just as we require foreign companies operating in Norway to comply with Norwegian labour regulations. But it's only when you get to the third world that Norwegian work ethic is really challenged. I understand that Norwegian companies that have a conscious relationship with their own values are reluctant to enter societies where professional and democratic rights are absent, and where the exploitation of children and women is the rule rather than the exception and corruption flourishes. This may be the reason why Norwegian foreign investment is at such a low level. Equally, such investments are desirable and necessary because they contribute to combating the poverty problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e641	Let me first join the rapporteur's excellent contributions. So a couple– three points: there are several ways companies can take on social responsibility when they're going to establish themselves out. Enterprises, of course, contribute to social responsibility through value creation. By creating jobs and contributing to economic and social development, industry also provides for value creation and growth. Production must take place in a sustainable and decent manner, including: by taking into account local communities and by integrating social and environmental considerations into their day-to-day operations. Industry is an important part of the development of developing countries. Growth and development can never be achieved without an efficient business that creates values and jobs and provides currency income based on sustainability and responsible behaviour. In order to achieve the Millennium Goals, the private sector must take part in the work. Economic and social development can go hand in hand with sustainable and profitable business activities. Then it is that when we discuss corporate social responsibility when it comes to setting up, we don't get away with a debate about where the boundaries of establishment go. Is it true that the Norwegian oil industry operates in Iran, or in Azerbaijan? And in that case, what can we, and what should we, expect of social responsibility in such countries? Do our companies respect professional rights, real wages and salaries? Do companies engage in human rights and equality, or do we see this as a political task? This week a young woman was executed in Iran – not so unusual in those regions. Iran has been executing gays, stoned women, arrested journalists in recent years. Does this have an impact on Norwegian nutritional establishment? Does Norwegian business in Iran make any demands? Do they address such matters? I think this is going to be very important when we talk about companies with state ownership. It is important that the Government exercise its State ownership in such a way as to criticise clearly unacceptable forms of business. The current Minister of Economic Affairs, Dag Terje Andersen, whom I also see sitting in the hall, said in an interview on 14 May 2007 that he was actively using the state's ownership to prevent slave trade and prostitution, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government will actively use its ownership to prevent slave trade and promote human rights.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is gratifying that business itself has also begun to take these issues seriously. The NHO Ethics and Social Responsibility Committee has recommended that Norwegian companies take a clear and transparent distance from the purchase of sexual services by employees when the company and its employees are involved.’ We now have a law prohibiting Norwegian men from buying sex. I assume that Norwegian business, as part of their social responsibility, ensures that their employees do not buy sexual services abroad. Finally, corporate social responsibility is also about ethical requirements for public procurement. It's essential that we get a sense of social responsibility also in the supply chain. It is important that Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian authorities focus more on setting ethical requirements in the procurement process, and the public sector must take the lead here. So just a comment on the Progress Party, as both in its submission here and in the comments of the Committee, has meant that CSR and societal responsibility can be costly and distorting. Let me turn this over to my head: Companies that take social responsibility can also work on competitive advantages – and I see that the representative of the Progress Party in the hall nods – they can actually work up benefits over a number of other companies. Therefore, it is important that enterprises take social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e666	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e682	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply will be given to members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e691	The proposal we have to deal with today is that we want the rest periods for police officers to continue to be agreed and not set out by regulation, as is now being worked on in the ministry. The majority answer is that the situation in the police has recently created uncertainty as to whether a new agreement on rest time could be reached. Failure to reach agreement in negotiations would mean that the police force would have been subject to the provisions of the Working Environment Act on rest periods, without adapting to the specific needs of the police to be operational. Such a situation would significantly impair the ability of the police to handle the tasks that the police are responsible for. It would weaken the ability of society to maintain law and order, and it would create fear and uncertainty in the population. On this basis, it was decided to provide for a regulatory rest period for the police. The proposal for a regulation currently under consultation is in practice the regulation of the existing negotiated special agreement on these points. It is claimed by the opposition that the Government is in breach of the right to negotiate. I strongly disagree with that. In our working life model, we assume that pay and working conditions are initially negotiated by the parties. In the Working Environment Act, in particular with regard to working time regulations, we have given the parties the opportunity to negotiate agreements that go beyond the framework set for non-organised workers and enterprises. However, we have also given society the opportunity to provide for a regulatory exemption from the working time arrangements for parts of the public administration where operations are difficult to adapt to the provisions of the law. There are a number of groups of workers who today have their working time regulated by such regulations. The point is that the needs of society need to be taken into account. It is then necessary to lay down working time rules that adapt and balance the nature of the particular activity against the health of workers, against the environment and safety. In this case, it was clear that society's need for an operational police force was threatened. Therefore, the Government had to use the regulatory home provided to regulate working time. Forced payroll is a perfectly clear parallel in terms of wage fixing. When social interests are at stake in a wage conflict, we intervene and override the parties with forced pay. Over the last ten years, wages and salaries have been adopted nine times. In all these cases, today's opposition parties have voted in favour of payroll. The considerations of the right-hand side on the law of the Police Federation in this matter are therefore more guided by situation-based political motives than by principle considerations. The arguments of the right-hand side are based on a blind belief that agreement would be reached in the negotiations. But what if it hadn't happened? What if, on 1 July, we had been dealing with a police force that had to comply with the provisions of the Working Environment Act on rest time, which is not at all usable for the police's special activities? What did the opposition say? They would of course point out that it was the government's job to provide for an operational police force. We wouldn't wait for such a situation to occur until we started a regulatory process. We do it in time – for the sake of the population, for the sake of society. We take responsibility. The only opposition party that has kept its head called in the case of regulatory fastening is the Left. I interpret the Left's comment and suggest that they are able to fulfil their role as an opposition party, while recognising the government's responsibility to ensure that we have an adequate police force. That the Progress Party, who knows only the concept of'responsibility' of mention, acts as they do, does not surprise anyone. The fact that the former government parties, the Right and the Christian People's Party, raise themselves on the lines of the Advance Party in this matter, is more sympathetic. I would have believed that these parties, like the Left, were able to have opinions about the conflict in the police without throwing the need for society's security overboard. It is in everyone's interest that the work of the Police Association on the conditions of pay and work of its members is conducted in the right channels, which are regular contract negotiations. I note that negotiations are now under way between the Police Directorate and the Police Union and that the negotiations are being conducted in a good tone. It's good not only for the police officers involved, but also for society, who need an operational and functional police force. It is my hope that, through negotiations, solutions will be found to the challenges that have created uncertainty. But it is also my firm belief that it is right for the Government to ensure that we have enough police through the mentioned regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e706	I noticed the introduction of the previous speaker to this debate. I have to say that I find it something special and remarkable in view of the situation the police have been facing throughout the winter, and not least in view of the core of the conflict that this has been about. The Progress Party is clearly concerned about the crisis that has spread in the police case. We have recorded that the crisis and the arrogance of policemen has escalated over the winter without the government being able to take the necessary action, without the government being able, at my discretion, to solve the challenges and problems that the police have faced. It has also resulted in a number of media debates. This has resulted in an active identification by the police, that it seems that this has gone too far, that one has not been taken seriously. I think it is strange that a red-green government does not take this staff seriously, is not willing to stretch out a hand and start negotiations. There's been a pastor in the case. Instead of reaching out the hand, you use this with regulation and almost put power in this conflict. This is more and more reminiscent of a performance struggle by the Government rather than constructive dialogue and constructive approach in order to solve a serious problem. The only people who have been harmed are people – people's legal security and security in the streets. There I agree with the representative Henriksen – it is important that Stortinget facilitates both having enough policemen and a good enough police to provide that security. But you don't do that by almost demonstrating the use of force towards the policemen, as you have done in this case, through a regulation. I ask the question: why in the world could you not have called the Police Association for dialogue, sit down and discuss how to find a solution to this matter, before you start the regulatory procedure, before you sent it to the hearing? It would have been much more natural and much more reasonable, at my discretion. Very familiar is the approach used in all other types of issues that are being debated in the workplace. But in this case, I record once again that the prestige is ahead of the sensible and good approaches. With this, on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, I want to put forward the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e717	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e720	The conflict between the Government and the police, which is detrimental to the population of Norway, is twofold. On the one hand, it is the resource, which is now apparent by cancelling police officers because of the operating framework, while at the same time, because of the financial crisis, after having rejected it for a long time, some funds were allocated to civilian positions — first having refused to have any problems at all. We have the second main issue here today, and it is well symbolized by the fact that according to the Police Forum, the Minister of Justice threw the editor of the Police Forum out at the door because he got questions he didn't like the crisis we're in, and about what you're going to do. Instead, campaigns have been launched against the police and the population, pretending that everything is in its best order. Next to beginning to listen to all the trusted police station leaders who are now beginning to express themselves, which rarely makes it as high as they are now, and not least all the people who actually see the number of orders increasing, the percentage of information is falling, and the uncertainty remains high, so the draft regulation sent to the hearing must be suspended, and the government must seek a solution acceptable to all parties through collective negotiations. The main focus of the right throughout the debate has been on the resource conflict. But to mess it up further with the lack of process that we have seen in this case here, as well as the case relating to the lex Killeggeren, has made the government run into a corner. Different government councils – a couple – have pretended that the Right has been unclear and said that we have put up for non-toural pay negotiations. That's not true, and it's been part of the sad media strategy you've been working on in your fight against the police, at a time when we're totally dependent on being recognized that security is a fundamental welfare asset. If you fail, you fail. I also think the claim that came here about substitute motives, is rather weak, because the only substitute motive that seems to be present here, is to cover one of its own state councils that are not sitting here in the hall. It's quite daring to accuse those parties that have for a long time warned against the situation we're in, in order to run games and black paint. I also think it would be okay if the Workers' Party agreed with themselves on who is the worst of the opposition parties. Now it was the left that was the best. In a debate before Christmas, the Right was fine, as opposed to the Advance Party. Last time it was the Progress Party that was good, not Right. So I think maybe you should agree with yourself on what you're actually talking about when it comes to the opposition. Questions about the continuation of the special agreement are also not a topic for spring pay negotiations, it has to be resolved separately. We all agree on one thing, and that is that we need more police. But the situation now is that we're getting less police because we've been covering the problems that have been going on for a long time. Then I would like to conclude by asking a very basic question to the case rapporteur. Can you get the messages that come from land and beach around? Is it understood that the population is concerned when the number of wild infections is increasing, the drug is flooding, more and more cases are being ordered, and the percentage of resolution is falling? I ask, are you satisfied with that? The next question is, what is the solution to that? Is the solution to continue to perform performance games against police organizations, or is it actually to use the extended hand that we all know very well that the police have tried to extend a period before they got enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e737	First, I would like to join the rapporteur's statement. It's quite right, as many people say, that this case is about people's security. That's why the government has had to put forward a proposal for a regulation to ensure that we have enough police in place. When the opposition today strongly criticizes, I have to say I am a little surprised by the argument. When the Right now says to put this proposal to rest, I'm in doubt if they really understand what kind of situation they're putting the whole country in. In order to put such a regulation at risk, as the rapporteur said, we are very soon in a situation where the rules of the Working Environment Act on overtime apply, and then we are in a very difficult situation. From the first day this government has taken up resources for the police in a much stronger way than the previous government did. So when the previous speaker said that this was a job that might have been down for a while, I guess he's talking from experience. We have doubled the training of policemen, and we have granted many civil positions – as far as I know, over twice as many as the Right Sea thought was necessary. We have strengthened the police by NOK 1.1 billion in our period – and then it is adjusted for price and salary. That means the government has seen the seriousness of the situation. I also hope that the opposition has come to realize that there is now a completely different atmosphere and situation in this field than it has been for a while. You've sat down and talked. Negotiations have been conducted in the form in which negotiations are to take place. I feel that there is a need for the opposition to whip up the mood one more time in the Chamber today, rather than to adopt a wise position that, first of all, recognises the need for us to have a system in place when the old agreement expires – we actually need to have – and that when negotiations are going on between the parties, as the opposition says they have long wanted. But it doesn't seem to make it the slightest impression, because you're more concerned with the game in the case than with the realities of the case. As far as I know, the crisis does not escalate, as the opposition is talking about. On the contrary, I perceive both that the resource situation in the police is improving, and that they have sat down to discuss within the negotiating framework where the matter will be resolved. This is a matter that I think I can say has not been a wish situation, but it has been a completely necessary situation to deal with. In such situations, it is appropriate to take action which is not initially the most desirable but which is necessary because there are major social interests at stake. That's why the government has had to do it, and we support the government in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e752	The Labour Environment Act is the very basic law of working life. The main purpose of the law is to ensure that all employees work that we can be familiar with here in the country. A fundamental right guaranteed by the law is the right to negotiate working conditions, particularly through collective agreements. Before the previous elections, the Working Environment Act was a hot topic. Then the current government parties were in opposition, and more than me probably remember the use of words from the opposition at that time. The working time chapter, together with the temporary employment legislation, was the area in which the use of words was most powerful. There was probably disagreement at the time about how detailed the law would regulate the external working time framework, but there was no disagreement that all workers had a legitimate claim for a legally protected rest period between job sessions. Nor was there any disagreement that when the employer’s right to overtime was exercised, further short-term need for flexibility in the allocation of working time had to be covered by collective agreements. Just on that basis, with the use of words from the red-green fresh in memory and the consensus it actually was about central parts of the worker protection in the working time chapter, we have with great wonder recorded the government's strong willingness to use coercive means to limit the police's rest time, as an alternative to putting everything in place to reach agreement through negotiations. Had it been other than the red-green self who had suggested something like this, there would have probably gone more than one sphere hot in the hall here today. But let me be clear on some relationships: The Christian People's Party does not disagree with the fact that the police are in a special position as the authorities' apparatus to protect the laws of the country and to ensure that the citizens' demands for legal certainty are met. Nor do we doubt the government's formal legal support to implement the regulation sent to the hearing, instead of renewing the special agreement that expires on 1 July this year. And – if anyone is in any doubt about it – we don't want to mix pay issues and questions about the regulation of rest periods through agreement or regulation. There are two separate questions, with separate solutions. If the police – or other groups – want to act for better pay, we assume that this is done within the terms of the contract. But – although we do not claim that the Government is acting contrary to the letter of the Working Environment Act, we believe that the State Councils Andersen and Storberget here have fronted a course of action contrary to the spirit of the Working Environment Act. The specificity of the police in society is not an argument for doing something that an overall employee side in the state sees as effectively suspending the right to negotiate. That is why, together with the Progress Party and the Right, we are proposing that the Government should abolish the regulatory work and be fully committed to continuing the special agreement through negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e769	Let me first say that I fully agree with the rapporteur's statement on this matter. I also want to say that you're not particularly happy with the situation you've come up with. But we are faced with the following facts: We have a special agreement with the police that expires on 1 July and needs to be replaced. This is – whether you like it or not – also about a pay match. It is important to stress the need for a renewed special agreement. We cannot leave ourselves behind for a period of almost a vacuum, in which a well-functioning police and countyman's seat does not have such an agreement – it for the sake of important, vital social interests. In the debate that has taken place here today and in the media, at least there is a sense that this is a special agreement that some people say is in a new form, and that is swept over the police's head. Let me remind you that we have had such a special agreement since 1958, and that there are similar agreements around Europe in most countries. Finally, we have some social groups in our own country that, because of the special situation, have similar agreements. It is about exemptions from the working and rest periods, and it is about compensation for – let us say – the extra burdens that the people concerned have. To attend a meeting on 1 July, we could not take the chance that an agreement was not negotiated in time. Faced with those who claim that the police situation is so much worse during this government, we can play with numbers. On the right, 160 civilian posts were proposed. The government came up with a number between 70 and 100, and then in January it turned on to 460. The Bondevik II government is to be commended for increasing the number of places in the education system to 240. This government is increasing to 552. But I don't think we're going to get caught up in these numbers, because there might be significant disagreement about the interpretation of them. The most important thing now is to note: we have come into a situation today where there is a positive dialogue between the parties, and that is the basis for believing that in time, by 1 July, there will be agreement between the parties on a new agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e789	Several have been concerned with the situation and the reason for this, and there is no doubt that the situation is not as good as it should have been. Nevertheless, I would point out that it is in any case the government's responsibility to have an adequate police force and to provide the people's security. The left has gone into the principle of this, when we stand alone on our proposal. The working and rest arrangements for state employees are a relationship between state and police organisations. In principle, I believe that negotiations on working and rest periods should be conducted at the same time as negotiations on compensation. Although the Government’s draft consultation on changes to police working and rest arrangements has now been sent out, there are continuing negotiations between the parties that need to determine the pay and compensation conditions in question. We have chosen to look at it in principle, and have also made proposals in the past, as is also the case with crews. But I believe that this question is not primarily about it, and that's why we have chosen to do it our way here. Our proposal is that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e796	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e800	Norwegian working life is based on good and mutual cooperation between the parties. Employers’ organisations and employee organisations shall, through cooperation and negotiation, agree on sensible solutions in a number of areas. Not least for pay and working time. At the same time, some workers carry out community tasks is totally dependent on working. It imposes a special responsibility on those who organise workers in such a sector. The police's duties are without doubt of this kind. As the sole civil power apparatus of society, the police have been given considerable powers by law. No other person has equivalent authority. Depending on the tasks and characteristics of the police, it will not be possible to carry out many of the police tasks if the general rule of the Working Environment Act on working hours is to be applied without adjustments. Today, the necessary adjustments have been made through a collective bargaining agreement between the parties. The part of the agreement that regulates exceptions to the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on rest periods for the police expires on 1 July 2009. Unfortunately, there is considerable doubt as to whether it is possible to reach an agreement on an extension of the contract. The uncertainty about this is disturbing for many. The government is responsible for ensuring that Norway is not without a well-functioning police and relief service. The country must and must have an operational and functional police force capable of protecting important societal interests. The government cannot put the country in a situation where, after 1 July, there is a significant reduction in police resources. In view of the difficult situation in the police, which has been a good time, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has drawn up a regulation on exemptions from the rest periods laid down in the Working Environment Act for certain groups of officials in the Police and Lone Civil Service. This regulation will ensure the necessary adaptations to the Working Environment Act. The purpose of the regulation is to help the police continue to have the opportunity to address the major challenges and important societal tasks for which it is responsible. Provisions derogating from the Law on the Safety and Health at Work of the police go back a long way in time. Everything at kgl. Res. of 19 December 1958, police officers were exempted from the rules of the Labour Protection Act on the limitation of overtime work. The exemption was continued when the Working Environment Act came in 1977, and then continued under the Working Environment Act 2005. This shows that the need to adapt the rules of the Employment Environment Act to the specific activities of the police has also been seen in the past. The proposal for a regulation derogating from the provisions of the Working Environment Act on rest periods for individual groups of workers in the Police and Lone Workers' Group is now being consulted and the deadline is 8 May. It gives the parties the opportunity to comment in the usual way, so that the matter is best clarified. In addition to this, it will normally be possible to negotiate in the wage negotiations on compensation for the disadvantage of having different rest periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e824	I have a very simple question for the Council of State: does the Council of State think it would be absolutely impossible to enter into a dialogue with the police associations and thus try to find a solution before proposing a new regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e829	The adoption of a regulation takes some time, for one must follow the rules of the game. This means, among other things: that the regulation must be consulted. What's the central point here is that it was unclear whether it would be possible to reach such an agreement. Then we have a responsibility that a regulation is ready and can enter into force on the day of the expiry of the current agreement. Let me underline that, because it has been suggested in this debate that there is a restriction for the police. We saw in the demonstration that was here in Oslo, that someone claimed that the police were deprived of free time. The regulation currently being consulted does not take one minute of leisure time from the police in relation to today’s practice. It is today's contractual solution that is passed on as a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e834	It was good to hear someone from the government parties say that it was now good processes. That's good to hear. Then you obviously know something we don't know enough about. Then I want to ask two questions: On the basis of these good processes and, most importantly, the guarantee provided by the representatives of the government parties in the hall, can the Council of State guarantee that there will not be summer-bound canning offices? Can the Council of State also guarantee that all the police officers and women we need in order to actually get a safe summer – including in the case of some electoral campaign events, where we may need some additional assistance – will recover the motivation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e841	As the representative of Oktay Dahl is well aware, I am not the Minister of Justice. My responsibility for this is to follow the work environment law and regulations according to it. But I have registered, contrary to what I heard the representative Oktay Dahl has done, that just to meet the great need for police capacity, much has been accomplished in this period by the current Minister of Justice. So it's spent more than $1 billion more in this period than in the previous period, even though it's subtracting price and cost increases. The capacity for admission to the Police College has increased to a higher level than ever before, and much higher than under the previous government. As late as January, 460 new civil positions were added, much more than the Right had imagination to demand when they demanded new civil positions. So it's being taken as a basic, big pledge for police capacity by the current Minister of Justice, who lacks a parallel in history.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e848	President, can I just ask if that was the answer to the question I asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e853	Then the representative must sign again on the roster...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e856	I noticed that both the case rapporteur and the Council of State said that one had to act like this because one was unsure if one came to an agreement. All negotiations are uncertain, but do the Council not agree that it is always important to try negotiations, to give dialogue and negotiation an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e861	Yes, I agree that it is important to try negotiations. What was special about this situation was that the question of rest time was linked to pay demands. One cannot see it in any other way when, in a letter from the Police Federation to the Prime Minister last December, it is pointed out that a desired supplement in order to proceed with this agreement. Then it's important for us to make sure to have the systems in place from 1 July, in the same way that we have in the fire department and in the defense. We have some important groups in society that are going to be there on the day of any crisis in society. That uncertainty could not be met by this government. That's why it's going to be a regulation, but it's going to be the exact same thing as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e868	Then I have a new simple question to the Council of State: can the Council of State guarantee that we have a functional, new special agreement in force according to the deadline to which the Council of State referred instead? Can the Council of State also try to indicate whether he believes police organizations will be satisfied with the new agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e874	So, as with the question from Oktay Dahl, I'm not answering the questions that naturally belong to the Ministry of Justice, and as the representative knows, in the case of wage negotiations, the Ministry of Consumers and Administration is dealing with it. My role in this is that when the current agreement expires on 1 July, at least I will have made sure that the formal basis is present, so that one will not have further challenges with the police resources – because one could then possibly stand without an agreement on the rest periods. In addition to this, I am sure that both the negotiations and, not least, the wide and thorough efforts of the Ministry of Justice on the resource side will help to continue the development that has taken place – an ever-increasing development of the police resource situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e881	Now I know that I'm going to be a meeting plague, but the question to the Council of State if, on the basis of the process to which it refers, he will help to recover the motivation of police officers, is not a professional question, it's a question for the entire government. When you first answer, it is also possible not only to read out the figures that the Minister of Justice has read out a few or three times in the Chamber before. That is why I repeat the question: can the Council of State guarantee that in the process we are currently conducting, we will help to recover the motivation needed to actually have a police force in this country that is able to deal with the challenges we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e886	It was the same question that I answered instead, too much of the claim in connection with what the representative calls lack of motivation in the police, which has given some special verdicts, has been linked to e.g.. the resource situation. That's why it's an answer to the fact that the current Minister of Justice has made sure that we have more people at the Police College than ever, because it has to be trained by the police to get more police. It is also the case that one of the central demands of the Police Federation has been to have more civilian positions in the police. So there the government has followed up more than what the Right demanded, and also more than what the Police Federation demanded. That's why I used these examples. I can't guarantee that individuals in society are inspired or motivated. But I can guarantee that we will continue to put in place the kind of action that should obviously give that motivation, because there are answers to the demands that have been made on the resource side. But then it is that wage negotiations are to take place when there are wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e895	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e900	I would first like to make one point, which I have done several times in the past: we have a tough situation in the Norwegian police force. We've said that many times. Then I register Oktay Dahl's frustration that the government parties praise a little bit of different parties at different times. Unlike the opposition parties, we are able to be nuanced in the debate, and that's why it is. We have commended the Progress Party for saying over many years that they will bet on the police, and have also shown it in the alternative budget, as opposed to the parties from the Bondevik government, which do not have credibility when they talk about the resource situation. We have praised the Right when they say that they no longer want to participate and politicize questions that clearly belong in wage and tariff negotiations. And today we praise the Left because they choose a wise approach to the question in this Document No. The 8th proposal. That's why we praise the different opposition parties when it fits with the fact of the matter, and not so that we give some general praise for all the future regardless of where we stand. It might be interesting to challenge the representative Dahl as to how far he thinks the government is responsible for the motivation of a working group in Norwegian society, where the border goes in relation to the question that was put in place – but I will leave it. I have hung myself in a few of the comments in the matter from some of the opposition parties. In the one, which is also part of the Progress Party, they state that the questions now raised by the regulation are naturally ‘belonging to wage and tariff negotiations’. It is quite different from what the Progress Party debated with from this pulpit just a few months ago – I think it was March 23rd – when we discussed Document No. 8:15, where the Progress Party had ten concrete proposals for solution, and where at least four of those proposals are direct pay and tariff issues. It was about risk supplements, it was about retirement, it was about general salary levels. At that time, the attitude of the Progressive Party was not that this was a natural part of the wage and tariff negotiations. It was then to be politicised, but today you think the opposite is true. Out of it – and to a large extent also a number of other issues – the only thing that is clear when it comes to the Progress Party and these questions is that it is situation-specific and not principled. It could be all right to hear what Eriksson thinks about it, if he disagreed with what he voted for on March 23 in this room, versus what he is going to vote for today. I think it is also quite alarming when the Right Party and the Advance Party state in their comments that the measures taken will not have an impact for several years. It's very special, all the time we know that the Oslo Police have already hired about 50 new civilians who will release 50 policemen, almost directly, in view of custody and detention. Or is it that you doubt e.g. The police chief's statement last week in that field?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e915	I think the debate has mixed up several aspects, but I understand that the government parties need to brag about getting more police positions, which is positive. When I ask for the floor, it is to make an explanation of vote. I want the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party to be voted on first. If it gets down, the Christian People's Party wants to vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e922	I feel the need to comment on a few issues in the debate. From the representative Oktay Dahl it is claimed that the government must decide who they want to praise. I have no problem at all deciding who I would like to praise in dealing with this matter. I am dealing with this matter and the fundamental considerations of what has been drawn up, not only by the government parties, but also by the opposition in the comments, but very little in the debate here. Yes, we get the concern that exists about the state of law and order, with the turmoil that is in the police. Unlike the bourgeois parties, we're doing something about it, instead of just talking and whipping up the mood. We have strengthened the police through additional appropriations, and we have also ensured through the treatment regulation that we have a backup of the working time regulations to ensure that we have the police force we need when the special agreement expires. The Christian People's Party and the representative Woie Duesund refer to the debate on the Working Environment Act, and that is a rather interesting comparison. However, what is at issue here is not the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act itself, but the possibility of the regulation of alternative schemes, all of which agree that the law is not applicable to public sector groups. The Workers' Party has never opposed this. No one has disagreed with that, nor do the parties that today disagree with the idea of using this opportunity when the obvious need is at risk of acting. For the Workers' Party, any case in which we enter and enter with the means of power such as pay and this type of regulation, interferes with the relationship between the employee and the employer, is difficult. That's why we have to make careful assessments of it. But there's no doubt about it, for the Workers' Party, the needs of society are the most important. We've done that repeatedly when we've dealt with it, for example. pay learning issues, which are the closest parallel we're going to break into the right to negotiate. Why the police's right to negotiate is so much more important than, for example: The help nurses, to whom we have run the payroll in three rounds, may well answer the Christian People's Party themselves. For us, this is the same thing. But I see that for the opposition this is a matter of cutting cheap political points risk-free, because you know that the government takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e937	Let me start with the simplest first. The Progress Party will support the Left's proposal in a subsidiary way, should our proposal, which we have with the Right and Christian People's Party, be downgraded against presumptuousness. So to the last speech, which I thought had an interesting consideration at the end. He spoke of the Workers' Party as being concerned with «the needs of society». It would have been tempting to ask the representative about society is the same as the population. There's probably some nuances in how you see the two things, depending on what you put in the concepts, at my discretion. For the Progress Party, this issue is about the well-being of the people. We're concerned about a police crisis, about a police discord that escalates, and where we're at worst in a situation where the population gets stuck without the necessary services. We fully agree that there is a need for a special agreement. We agree that there is a special agreement, we have tradition of it. But our approach has been that we wanted a solution to be found before reaching the point of view that has now been taken: to put it on the table and say ‘here is the deal, take it or leave it’ – with negotiations on the way, as the Council of State pointed out. We would have liked to use the foreign minister's words, dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. And then you start at the opposite side of what the government has done here. Then it would have been interesting with a thought experiment. What would today's positions be like if today's opposition made such a proposal? I don't know if I'm allowed to say that, but then we'd be hanging in the trees outside here all of us, because this type of procedure would never have been accepted. I am reasonably sure that it would then have become a ramaskrik far beyond what we are used to. The motives have also been discussed here. I think we should keep that in many ways too good. What it's all about is for the Progress Party's part the concern for the welfare of the population, because they expect help. Then the conflict we have today is not the solution. It's opposite a negative focus. Then some have discussed their own budgets and merits in this area. Yes, honor the government today for the promise it made when it came to civil positions. But it was not done as part of the budget. That light saw the government in January, if necessary. It did not see it in December when we dealt with the budget for the justice sector. But if it's allowed to walk around in the light of the after-clock, the red-green government has fully demonstrated its qualities in this way. In fact, the party of progress and the other parties supported the proposal made by the Government for the use of civil positions. For what is the alternative? We need cops. The police officers say they're short on payroll. Then to go against a proposal that, after all, is positive, none of us are worthy of it. The fact is that although the representative Breen claims that this is populist in order to focus on it, it is not necessarily the truth in all contexts – although the Workers' Party has been a good teacher in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e958	It's getting closer in the summer, and then there's a lot of reprices on TV. I'm assuming that "Pacific Blue" or something like that is going to happen. I now feel that some from the Justice Committee are starting to take a bit of a summer ahead of me. Anyway, Karin Andersen was concerned about reality. The reality is that from land and beach around, there are probably as many concerns now as after this dialogue has apparently begun, which should be fantastic. People are being told up, not so many new ones are being hired. There are reports of summer - closed bilge offices. We had a debate here where we have finally given ourselves, about laying down ten offices in Follo – budgetary considerations were the reason, even if you call it something else. So you're not able to see that this is a crisis. I think that's very special. I think it's very special that you spend the most time accusing those who for a long time have warned about the situation we're in, and spend time talking about the billions you've granted extra. It's $1 billion, but it's going to be something like boasting that you spend more money at the store because everything's getting more expensive. The budgets are increasing every year, but the point is what you get for that money. What you actually get left is a lower percentage of information, more instructions and police officers who are discouraged. I understand that as a government council you can't be telepathic and go into the head of each one. That's not what my question was about. But it's a problem when we see that a lot of people refuse to be cops after they leave high school, they refuse to take the job we want them to take. We're told from a lot of police districts that they might get so much money for civil servants, but there won't be any more policemen, because they don't have the resources to hire new policemen, and they're already resigning new employees. That's the messages we get. Then you can say that it is political games to pass on the messages to those who sit by a majority and have the opportunity to do something about it. It's not that. It's a fact that we take them seriously. We take seriously all those who tell us that they come home and feel that the house is end-of-life, and that only gets the case automatically posted – all the people who are exposed to crime and who are not given help. Now we can use another debate to talk about the number of students at Police College. Yeah, we'll have multiple places all of them. We've all agreed on that. The Bondevik government has started, and it has been continued by this government. Then it's about money. We agree on that. What's still missing is getting an emergency network in place and a DNA reform that was exposed. There is also a lack of a central strategy for senior policy. So it is absolutely right that some of the measures taken will not take effect in a few years' time because there is a clear central policy lacking for example. in the case of senior policy, and not least how to use the money to get 460 new police officers by getting 460 new civil servants in to free them from work. These are key issues that this government has not solved. We must then be allowed to record it without being accused of black paint and games.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e969	If there had not been a serious situation, and the government had not realized it, there would of course have been no proposal for a regulation. It's that simple. The reason why this is a regulation is that you thought it was a serious situation, and that you were just afraid that people would be left without the help of the police because the working time regulations would then be the work environment law. You were afraid you couldn't be sure to come to an agreement on this. That is why this proposal was presented, and we are now sitting and negotiating. I'm not going to get involved in those negotiations, but there are many issues that are on that table. We who want to find a solution to this that's practical, have to bet on that card, and we do. It is precisely because more policemen have been needed that we have been committed to it. Unfortunately, the number of students was low, and it takes time to educate those people. That's what we're doing. That's why I'm a little worried about kind of playing this out worse than it is. I haven't painted the situation in any way. If this had been a situation where you could just not do this and trust that it was going well anyway, I would of course have been against making such a regulation. I don't think there's anything anyone wanted. But it has just been based on the seriousness of the situation that the government has had to do it – precisely from the point of view of what the representative Octay Dahl is concerned about, namely that there should be police officers present when people need it. As I said, that job I feel, with great satisfaction, that this government has handled in a much stronger way than the previous government. Unfortunately, the lack of effort we saw then, we're going with us for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e978	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e994	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2827]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1012	There is currently increasing focus on the north and the Arctic due to the exploitation of rich natural resources such as fish, oil and gas, but not least because of their interest in Arctic, environmental and, above all, climate research. In this context, the strategic location of Svalbard as the basis for different international research interests is very important. Research-based knowledge that could be of vital importance to the entire globe can be obtained from the northern regions near us. Both as a national administrator in the light of the Svalbard Treaty and as a geographical neighbour, Norway is facing significant challenges in a number of areas. The northern regions are very vulnerable. It is therefore important that we manage the areas on the basis of the principles of sustainable development and the conduct of commodity-respect. In the development and management of natural resources, Norway must play a leading role while being a leading country in the field of renewable resources. The question is to what extent Norwegian authorities are aware of this leadership role, and to what extent this becomes more than words. One question is also the place and importance of research in the exercise of a comprehensive Norwegian svalbard policy. The Soria Moria Declaration, which is the political platform of the current government, underlines that the northern regions are to be seen as Norway's main strategic area of activity in the coming years. In line with this, in December 2006, the Government presented its Northern Region Strategy at 22 Action Points, several of which were also concerned with research. I have to admit that it has been a little difficult to get an overview of how the Northern Region Strategy has been followed up in the post-2006 period. I do not exclude that this may be due to the fact that efforts are distributed across different departments. But it is not wrong to say that many have waited a long time for both research in general and climate research in particular to be given a stronger priority. In the context of the 2007-2008 Polar Year, a relatively large collection of research material from the northern regions was undertaken, and this material, linked to a number of different projects, constitutes the raw material of too much arctic research in the future. At the same time, work was also under way on the climate communication, which resulted in a reconciliation between all parties in the Stortinge, except the Progress Party, on a broad-spectrum focus on climate change mitigation measures. In the agreement of the conciliation, it includes, inter alia, the following:\t\t You can change the settings of ‘The parties agree that Norway should make a significant contribution to global efforts to strengthen the knowledge base of climate work and strengthen climate-related research in Norway.’ We have waited anxiously for the follow-up to this climate agreement. On 12 March of this year, two years after the announcement of the first Northern Region Strategy of the Government, the Government presented a step 2 in its Northern Territory Strategy, in a document called ‘New North Building Stones’. Here we note that environmental research, especially climate research, has been given a more central place. It's positive. We have also noticed that the package of measures in the context of the financial crisis promised increased appropriations for climate research and, among other things, for climate research. ESFRI, the up-to-date roadmap for European research infrastructures. It's also positive. In this European research cooperation, the swallowing environment is also a heavy one. However, the fact that Norway can be said to have been the key player in environmental research and, with one, becoming a priority country in the development of renewable energy will be an exaggeration. A short time ago, the Government presented two new high-level messages, both of which affect the interpellation theme. One has been given the title «Climate for Research». Only the title sounded like music in my ears, and I was excited about how much it was about climate research. Now I will not prejudge the Committee's work on the Research Communication, but it speaks positively of Svalbard, which, because of its «location in an easily accessible, high-arctic area, offers unique opportunities for natural science research, including research on climate change,» etc. The notification indicates that the further development of Svalbard as an international research platform has been important for the follow-up to the Northern Region Strategy of the Government and that research at Svalbard is part of the overall national research and higher education policy. Research, alongside coal and tourism, is one of the main pillars of Norwegian activity in Svalbard and is an important element in the settlement and management of the island group. The second message, the svalbard message, was presented by the Minister of Justice. In a separate chapter, this Communication gives a relatively broad account of what is being done in research on Svalbard, and mentions many important challenges. Among other things, it points to the need for better coordination of the many and different research activities in the island group and underlines the role of the Research Council in this context. The need for better coordination was also a matter for the National Audit Office in its administrative audit. The notification also points to the wide potential of the international presence of researchers at Svalbard, not least in view of dialogue and interaction between institutions and environments where appropriate, that they can complement each other and, as a whole, ensure a strong and holistic research effort. In order to achieve this, the Communication stresses that Norway must not only play the role of organiser but also be an active participant in the professional activities, and that representatives of Norwegian institutions should be able to take on a professional leadership role. One of the prerequisites for this is that the Norwegian environments have scientific weight and quality and can be attractive partners for foreign colleagues. Therefore, it is also necessary to invest in the recruitment of younger researchers and the training of technical staff. In this context, no institution is more central than UNIS. The government is also saying that UNIS plays an important role in the government's Northern Territory Strategy for Svalbard in general and Longyearbyen in particular. ‘The agency also contributes to the Longyearbyen calling itself a stable, full-yearly family society’, says the Communication. At the same time, the Centre's ambitions to become a leading international Arctic study centre are positive. This means that UNIS is given a clear signal to develop into a quality institution for research and development in Longyearbyen. At the same time, it is said, among others. that, in addition to taking the necessary professional budgetary considerations, the Centre must assess plans and growth in relation to the environment and the opportunities for local communities to manage growth. It seems to be completely in line with the understanding that has always underpinned the creation of UNIS. It has never been the idea that UNIS should evolve towards becoming its own university, but be an integral part of the activities of mainland universities and their forward-looking position for research and education at Svalbard. On the basis of the many positive opinions given in both of these communications, there is therefore every reason to ask why UNIS is required to cut its budget for the current year, i.e. reduce both the number of student years' work and research positions. Reduced course offers for the autumn of 2009 and for the spring of 2010 will provide a reduction of the student population by approx. 20 years, so that the total power will be 25 years. This appears to be contrary to all positive ambitions and the fact that UNIS has infrastructure capacity to receive much more. What also stands in stark contrast to the message's positive message is that all actors are now building down in Longyearbyen, Great Norwegian with subcontractors are reducing their activity. The travel industry is currently struggling with business market failures, while the workforce also reduces the provision of services. The valbard message, to be processed later, does not determine the duration of coal operations on Svalbard. The volume of off-take is reduced to ensure that operations can last longer in the area around Svea, where there is already a built-up infrastructure. A decision to phase out coal operations, if any, will be pushed forward in time. At the same time, if Norway has ambitions to become a leading country in climate research, the coal industry will be our Achilles heel. Compared to continued coal-fired and increased tourism, it is difficult to see that research will pose the most serious threat to the squalid nature, given that the necessary measures are being taken. Rather, one would think that research in the future should be a key pillar of Norwegian swallowing policy. Against this background, it is difficult to understand why the Government chooses to reduce the activity of an institution such as UNIS, without being able to record the rise of elsewhere on the island — considering that external pressure is increasing, both by increasing the number of research teams from other countries establishing themselves there, and not least that Russians also send strong signals of new escalation. A decline by the Norwegian side at such a central institution will reduce our chances of taking a leading position in international polar research. My question to the Council of State is: given our responsibility for the management of Svalbard and given that Norway wants to take a leading position in Norwegian polar research, will it not also be a good strategy to build up the quality and capacity of the institutions that, after all, are located on this island group?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1064	I thank you for the interpellation, which gives me a good opportunity to discuss the issues of research and higher education at Svalbard also with the Stortinget. Research and education, as also mentioned in the interpellant, form a very important part of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. In Norwegian swallowing policy, research and higher education have gradually built up to become a particularly important activity. Recent attention has been paid to research activities in and related to the northern regions in general and Svalbard in particular. This is related to the unique opportunities for climate and environmental research in the area, which were also the subject of the inter-pellant. Norway has internationally leading climate and polar research environments and other disciplines relevant to the north, both in the north and in other parts of the country. At the same time, the northern regions have natural advantages in carrying out research, monitoring and surveying activities related to these fields. In addition, the framework for such research has been remedied in recent years, including the following: through the development of good infrastructure and earmarked scholarship positions. The International Polar Year, which is actually longer than a year, started in 2007 and actually ends this year. The government has granted a total of 320 million. to the International Polar Year. Now one is about to collect data, which is very exciting. The International Polar Year has given a boost to international research cooperation at Svalbard. With this in mind, the Government wants to further develop research activities in the northern regions and in Svalbard. Both the Government’s platform for the further north-eastern work, «New building blocks in the north. The next step in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government’, and the two recently submitted Storing messages, the Svalbard Communication and the Research Communication, take this perspective into account. First a little bit about the northern areas in general: Knowledge is a major area of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. We need research-based knowledge to better address opportunities and meet challenges related to, among other things. climate change and the environment we face both in the north and elsewhere in the world. In the years to come, north-eastern research is to be further developed where we have good environments and natural advantages. Among other things, the Government will further develop knowledge of climate and environment. With «New building blocks in the north», the Government presents comprehensive projects that will meet knowledge needs in this area. An example of such a project is the further development of the knowledge environments in Tromsø into an internationally leading centre for climate and environmental research in the northern regions. In addition, the Government wants to strengthen research in areas of importance for innovation, value creation and industrial development in the north. Research infrastructure is a fundamental prerequisite for research. Strategic investment in infrastructure will improve the conditions for the good environments we have, and it will make it more attractive for international researchers to come to us. Moreover, improved infrastructure could have ring-fenced effects in terms of innovation and industrial development. Research infrastructure is therefore an important element of our further North Sea work. In the government's bet, the northern regions are not confined to Norwegian regions. International cooperation is therefore of great importance. Russia is in a special position as a North partner, but also the other Circumpolar Nations, the members of the Arctic Council and central EU countries are important partners. The Government will continue to develop international cooperation related to the North. So a little bit about Svalbard in particular and the problem that the interpellant travels. Research is one of the main pillars of Norwegian activity in Svalbard, alongside other activities such as coal and travel, and research is therefore an important element in the settlement of the island group and its management. The staging shall soon discuss the swallowing notification, and the Government's views on the balance and development possibilities between business and research and education are evident. But there is no doubt that research will continue to be one of the pillars of Norwegian swallowing policy. In recent years, we have seen the further development of Svalbard as an international research platform. The location of an easily accessible high arctic area offers unique opportunities for scientific research, including: climate change research. Research environments at Svalbard have provided data and details to the International Climate Panel – just to give an example. This makes Svalbard an attractive research venue also for foreign researchers, and the international presence is increasing both in Longyearbyen and New Zealand. Norway has leading polar research environments both at Svalbard and in other parts of the country. It is primarily UNIS and the Norwegian Polar Institute that support Norwegian research at Svalbard. These institutions will continue to contribute to the inclusion of research as an important part of Norwegian activities in Svalbard in the future. The interpellant expresses concern that UNIS should reduce its activities. UNIS plays a very central role in the continuation of the Norwegian polar research tradition, in the development of Svalbard as a research platform and in representing and safeguarding Norwegian interests in the Arctic. Through its activities, UNIS, the University Centre of Svalbard, contributes to ensuring the recruitment of research and industrial development in Arctic areas at a time when attention is increasingly focused northwards. Since its creation, UNIS has evolved and grown considerably, mainly on the basis of government appropriations. Both education and research have been strengthened, including activities with external funding. It is in the 2009 budget allocated 82 million. kr to UNIS. This should contribute to an activity of about 120 student years. The Ministry presupposes that the activities are carried out within the framework of the budget, and a separate board of directors is set to take care of that relationship. So UNIS itself has added up to a slightly larger activity than this frame suggests, as among other things. involve the purchase of dwellings for employees. The company has a difficult financial situation due to low free equity and pressured liquidity. This is mainly related to the operation of loans for the purchase of dwellings for employees, but also because UNIS cannot cover all the costs of projects it carries out for or in cooperation with others. In order to balance the budget, UNIS aims to reduce the staff by five persons during 2009. This shall be done by natural departure. Furthermore, UNIS will significantly reduce the price range from the autumn of 2009 and alternative solutions to the need to provide housing to employees will be explored. Here we are in a good dialogue with UNIS from the department. The actions taken by UNIS will be expected to stabilise the economic situation. UNIS is and must be an important institution with very high professional quality activities, attractive both for foreigners and for the Nordics. However, the dimensioning will depend on appropriations, and of course the Government will come back to the budgetary process. And as in any budgetary situation, there is a framework to be dealt with. As mentioned above, the location of Svalbard creates unique opportunities. Upgrading of existing infrastructure and investment in new infrastructure is essential for making even better use of the natural advantage of the island group. Here, the project Svalbard Integrated Arctic Earth Observing System, which goes under the name SIOS, will play a significant role. UNIS has made an amazing effort to get this initiative done. SIOS is a pan-European infrastructure effort that was included in 2008 in the updated European Infrastructure Roadmap, ESFRI. The project will involve both upgrading existing infrastructure and investment in new infrastructure to ensure the collection of data from the four spheres of land, sea, ice and air. Furthermore, a knowledge centre shall be established to make the data base available. SIOS will contribute to the improved scientific benefit of the Svalbard measurement and research activity and reduce the risk of overlapping and unnecessary wear and tear on the highly vulnerable environment. The project is an important measure to promote international research cooperation and coordination at Svalbard. Increased activity and internationalisation make it necessary to strengthen Norwegian professional management and presence at Svalbard and to strengthen coordination and cooperation. The Svalbard Communication refers to several measures that will meet these needs. The government wants to strengthen the role and presence of the Norwegian Research Council at Svalbard through the administrative further development of the Svalbard Science Forum. The Government will also consider other measures, such as own resources for bilateral and multilateral research cooperation. Norway has both natural advantages, good framework conditions in terms of infrastructure and internationally leading environments in northern and svalbard research. And I would like to stress that the government still emphasises that we are going to develop research in and for the northern regions in general, and that we are going to develop Svalbard as an international research platform in particular. Research must be an essential element of both the Northern Region policy and the swallowing policy of the coming years. In this way, we will consolidate our position as a leading nation in research in and for the northern regions and in and about Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1113	I thank the Council of State for a full statement. I was going to thank for the answer too, but at the same time I must say that I am not entirely satisfied with the explanation regarding the cuts in the UNIS budget. It's a little difficult to go into detail -- we who are outside, obviously don't know all the sides of this; I fully understand it. It is difficult to understand that there is a difficult situation in the economy due to the need to acquire dwellings. As you know, it's not a fluke with homes in Longyearbyen, and I understand that you might also have to invest something in it. But it's going to go beyond the research activity and the number of students, the academic year, it feels a little hard to understand. At all, I have little understanding that you can't go into this whole thing, and make sure that at least what is the main purpose of UNIS and the university center up there, that is to run research and teach students, is maintained in a good way. I have sought to find an explanation as to why this is prioritised so low from the Government's side. I seem to find at least something that might be an explanation, in step 2 of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, which I referred to in my main post. There is no doubt that there is a need to invest in the environment and climate research, but that this research will mainly take place with a different starting point – Tromsø – and primarily with the Norwegian Polar Institute. The Norwegian Polar Institute has many skilled researchers and very high quality in the research environment, and significant activity also related to Svalbard. There's no doubt about it. However, for a government that has had to endure numerous criticisms for the fact that northern research is mainly carried out in South Norway, it is more timely to move activity to North Norway. You might have a certain understanding of that, and you probably should have thought about that a long time ago. But that the solution to this is to reduce the activity in Longyearbyen, make Svalbard a balancing item in the continental accounts, so to speak, is really going to be the driest team. The question to the Council of State remains about strengthening an institution like UNIS that needs to be opposed to strengthening activity in North Norway. I received an opinion from the State Council of Aasland in the Svalbard post in connection with the presentation of the swallowing notification. I think it was quite nice said, and would like to quote the Council of State: ‘Research and Higher Education Minister Tora Aasland says that what is happening on Svalbard in international research is an adventure. “A short time ago, coal mining was the most important thing, now there is a university centre in Longyearbyen, while considerable international research is taking place in New Ålesund and Longyearbyen, is an adventurous development. It provides Norway with an important addition to the coal industry in Svalbard’s future, says Aasland.’ My question is, ‘Isn’t this adventure to continue? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1131	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1134	It was a good quote the interpellant had. I'm the first one to hope for and make sure that there's an adventure going on. But you have to have some reality orientation, even if you can call it a fairy tale that we actually got to research at Svalbard. That reality orientation is for UNIS as well as for everyone else about getting a frame and having to stick to it. So, of course, I want to fight because it can be as big as UNIS would like it to be. It is a matter that I naturally have with me in important budgetary negotiations. I see that there is an important balance between a vulnerable area like Svalbard and how much activity is actually going to take place there, including in the field of research. Therefore, it is important that all good forces cooperate. With regard to the Northern Region Strategy of the Government and where to go with research, at least it's not that you want to build up important activity in Tromsø, which prevents you from doing the same thing both in Longyearbyen and in New Ålesund. The University of Tromsø is one of the most important owners of UNIS, and there is very strong cooperation between the two actors. There is a need for several focal points in a good knowledge policy that is about the north. Therefore, there is a need for a strengthening and development of the educational and research provision both in Longyearbyen and not least in New Zealand, how many nations are present with their research stations. It's a very international environment both places. My ambition is clear that of what we are able to increase research appropriations in the years to come – as we have said in the research report that Stortinget will soon have to discuss – an important part will, of course, go to north-eastern research and to Svalbard, which is really a research platform with international recognition. International researchers think it is very good to get there. We see the whole of the UNIS situation. It's not just housing, it's just one element in the situation they're in. They've gone a little beyond their limits. We're in good dialogue with them, and we're trying to solve this exact situation in a good way, and then of course we're going to be involved in strengthening what's going to happen in the UNIS context later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1152	First, I would like to thank the representative Lånke for putting an interesting and important topic on the agenda today. There is no doubt that we need more knowledge – not least research-based knowledge – to address the opportunities and challenges we face, among others. climate change in the north. The Government’s platform for the further north-eastern work on ‘New building blocks in the north’ and two large-scale messages submitted in the last month, the swallowing notification and the Research Communication focus on research in the northern regions through the natural advantages of these areas, particularly on the environment and climate. In the Northern Region Strategy, Step 2, it was proposed to develop a climate and environment centre in Tromsø – «the knowledge environments in Tromsø are further developed into an international leading centre for climate and environment research in the northern regions», it says. [[...]] The Centre shall be organised as a network linked to the Norwegian Polar Institute and shall be responsible for coordinating cooperation between institutions nationally and internationally. Institutions are today free to choose their fields of activity independently of a government strategy or not. In northern Norway, there are a number of good examples of research and development related to the challenges facing northern areas. The University of Narvik has chosen to invest in research, among other things. cold climate technology. Cold climate technology is the total effect of low temperatures, snow, ice and wind, possibly also the absence of daylight in the period when there is no sun. Cold climate technologies are technologies that are specially developed to reduce the disadvantages of, or exploit the benefits of, the cold climate. This is research on how to assume that the snow lies around a building, on the road or in the terrain. Furthermore, the effects of icing on wind turbines and structures in extreme climates are being investigated. These are good examples of how to take advantage of the benefits of developing new technologies through field research. The Narvik College has committed itself to working with Northern Russia on research — and with the universities of Murmansk and Arkhangelsk on, among others. developing an international master's degree in environmental technology. Research in the north has been central to the University of Bodø for several years now. In 2007, the Nordic Centre for Enterprise was established. Cooperation with Russia is also central in Bodø. A result of this has been the launch of the study Master of Science in Energy Management, where Norwegian and Russian students together study issues in energy management with a special focus on the north. Education cooperation between the College of Bodø and the MGIMO University of Moscow is highlighted in the first stage of the Northern Region Strategy as a model for the possibilities of joint Norwegian-Russian doctoral and master’s programmes. It is important to involve industry in the work on research strategies — in the north, this concerns many different industries, such as fisheries and maritime transport, and oil and gas extraction, but also the tourism industry. The northern regions are today a well visited tourist destination from all over the world. This is good, and we want more of that. Many people have an opinion that travel life does not take environmental considerations into account. While there are no serious interests in the tourism industry that want to be destroyed in the north, they may have much to offer expertise on what may be problematic in the interface between nature and tourism. IAATO, which is the travel life's own organization in Antarctica, has even regulated tourism for many years. The Antarctic Treaty itself has adopted many of the restrictions that travel life established on a voluntary basis several years before they were incorporated into the Treaty. I think that if tourism and research can go hand in hand, as it does in Antarctica, it will be better for everyone. In Antarctica, expedition cruise ships contribute to the research work, including: with sampling and observations. The effect is an increased understanding of research. In the interpellance of the Council of State, the interpellant focuses particularly on Svalbard. Research is one of the most important activities in Svalbard and is an important contribution to the settlement and management of the archipelago. The research environment helps to give the swallow-bard community more bones to stand on. Research will continue to be one of the pillars of Norwegian svalbard policy in the future, as the new svalbard communication also says. Knowledge has become the main activity of the high-arctic island community. We must continue to invest in the Norwegian research environments in petroleum and climate, marine and polar research. Norway currently has large and important environments in these fields. We need to get on with that. If we manage to see the above fields together, it will strengthen our position as a competence nation for Northern Region Research. Furthermore, it will be important that Norway’s research efforts and presence in the New Ålesund and UNIS do not depend on other countries. The infrastructure, which has been strongly strengthened in recent years, and the natural qualities, are there. [[The President clubs.]] And they have to be used by Norwegian researchers, so that we keep up with the international research activities in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1178	The President is noticing that the red lamp on the top of the speaker's chair doesn't work, but the representatives can look down on the speaker's chair in the hall, where it's a red lamp.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1181	I would also first like to thank the interpellant, Ola T. Lånke, for bringing an important theme into the Stortinget. I mean, knowledge is the hub of the North Zone bet. All the important objectives in the north, whether in terms of sovereignty, authority or environmental and resource management, and not least the creation and further development of the northern regions, demand that the research are dependent on a raise in the bet. Norway is not the largest in the northern regions, but I think we can and should become one of the most important knowledge nations in the northern regions. Governments said that knowledge is an important part of the Northern Region Strategy. I don't think there's any disagreement about that, but at the same time it's important to remember that the government doesn't keep pace with its own promises or with the needs of the northern regions. The institutions in the north, then I think of both universities and colleges, have experienced a real decline in their appropriations during the period, and is thus far from reaching the goal of 1 pst. public use of GDP for research purposes. As a result of the research report presented on 24 April, the target has now been abandoned within the timescales previously set. It is pushed forward to a target to be met ‘on-term’ as it says. In the alternative budget for 2009, the Right prioritised important initiatives in the north. One was increased basic appropriations for universities and colleges, but it was so important to focus on the fact that more of the North Region research and action will take place in the North. The interpellant has also been involved in his article. In the budget, we wanted to double the number of recruitment positions for north-eastern research via the Norwegian Research Council, and also to focus heavily on research development. A bit of double communication is put in the system when neither the research message nor the svalbard message gives a signal about a boost for research and higher education. There are high expectations of a knowledge building in the north, and in particular those expectations were created by, among other things. Stoltenberg, Støre, Navarsete and Halvorsen when they laid out «New building blocks in the north» before Easter. However, the truth is that both UNIS and the newly merged University of Tromsø are struggling to keep the activity up. Governments used the university as an example of an important partner for UNIS, but the university, like UNIS, is struggling to keep up its activity and to build up rather than build up. An important strategy for the Right is that we need to focus on raising research ambitions in the North, so that more of the research on the North takes place in the North, and not just elsewhere. As the interpellant noted, Norway can not only play an facilitating role, but must also take an active part in the knowledge-building and research that is taking place. UNIS was set up to give Svalbard more legs to stand on, as it was in the past, and it has in particular facilitated advanced research on climate and environmental issues. So now we feel that UNIS has to build up, and that's a pretty dramatic situation, which can in the long run help to degrade the environment that's built on Svalbard. As the Council of State was in it, it is that UNIS plays a very central role, helps ensure recruitment and has grown considerably since the beginning. Then the Council of State assumes operation within the framework set by the Stortinget. I think that applies to everyone in the room, assuming that the limits given are followed. But then the question is, why not extend the framework to UNIS, when it is precisely so that both UNIS and the other institutions in North Norway should form important parts of a knowledge effort and a knowledge strategy. Because it does not seem to me that the Council of State says that she should work in every context for increased appropriations to UNIS when nothing is detected. I think the answer is somewhere else. The answer is that the Government does not intend to strengthen UNIS by expanding the framework. In the Svalbard post on 9 January, we could read that the Council of State considered that: ‘The ministry is now doing what they think is right by stopping the growth of UNIS based on the desire to take care of Svalbard. We have to look at what is tolerated by activity," said the Council of State. ‘In view of the vulnerability of the svalbard nature, it is important to set limits, Aasland considers.’ I think the solution and the answer from the government are here. It is not in an increased framework or a desire for bet, but it is in a desire to reduce the activity of UNIS, because it is feared that it will conflict with, for example, UNIS. the nature and resources of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1207	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing this important issue up on the agenda in Stortinget. I am pleased that there is so much consensus among those who have had the word so far, about the importance of strengthening the bet in the northern regions. I am also pleased that we have a minister who has a very offensive attitude, and I hope that the offensive attitude will infect the rest of the College of Government, so that we get the promise and the pressure that is necessary. We have experienced that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done a real job in the verbal field, and is going along with someone, and now the Minister of Knowledge is also involved. So keep your head down! It's about knowledge being a major area of government's Northern Territory bet, and it's very important. Several speakers have addressed the challenges we face in the field of the environment and climate change, the melting of polaris, etc. This is the advantage we have of being as close to the areas that we have to exploit. Research infrastructure, as mentioned above, is a fundamental prerequisite for research in the north. But we have one challenge that more people have been facing. We have a strong focus on the university environment in Tromsø. In order not to be taken into account for, as a northerner, being jealous of the Tromsø environment, I have to say it is good. But let's look at the whole LU area and the research and knowledge environments together. We have an environment in Alta that we can make use of and invite with – the same with Harstad. Ljunggren was in the special research community in Narvik, which is important to have, and in Bodø. And then we have the Nesna and the Nord-Trøndelag High School. The sum of these research environments, plus Tromsø and the environment at Svalbard, makes it possible for us, with an overall package, to stand very strong to meet the future. And let me mention in the same breath that there are some infrastructure and some projects that are interesting. The SIOS project consists of a succinct infrastructure for the collection of land, sea and ice data. EISCAT 3D is an upgrade of a Scandinavian radar system for atmospheric research. We have plans for a new ice-going research vessel, which will be a real strengthening of the process we're in. We are strengthening MAREANO, a programme for monitoring the diversity of the seabed. We have a comprehensive monitoring and warning system and national commitment to marine bio-prospecting. This is good. But let's remember that the northern regions contain more than just the climate and what it belongs to, in the field of research. We have oil, gas and fish, and we must not forget that we actually have the richest mineral resource area, at least in Europe. Once the economic crisis is over and the world is on the rise again, it will just be a challenge to use these resources. We have to prepare now, so we are able to obtain a sustainable exploitation of the diversity of resources we have in the north. Then we have done the right actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1221	Thanks also from the Left for the representative Lånke has addressed this topic today. The air observatory at the top of the Zeppelin mountain in the New Ålesund is one of the earth’s main monitoring stations for the monitoring of the atmosphere’s background level of greenhouse gases and environmental pollutants. Since the level of air pollution here can be measured without taking into account background contamination, the observatory is considered to be one of the world’s most important ‘listing points’ for the monitoring of environmental and climate change. The observatory at Zeppelinfjellet thus offers Norway unique opportunities to contribute to global climate research and environmental monitoring in the northern regions. This can give us important knowledge of the Earth's environmental state, which can benefit an entire world. In view of this, I believe that the research infrastructure we have built on Svalbard is quite unique. But lack of funding makes Norwegian research increasingly defensive internationally. Norwegian investment in infrastructure and the organisation of research activity in New Ålesund has been significant in recent years, but the number of Norwegian research days has been reduced by about 10 %. 35 pst. Since 2003 – despite the fact that Norwegian researchers have both good and interesting projects in stock. But unfortunately they don't get enough money. Foreign researchers, on the other hand, have increased their activity. Countries like Germany, China and Japan have increased their research here. Norway has taken up the role of janitor and organiser, while more and more foreign polar researchers are gathering knowledge. As a result, Norway is weakening its role as a leader in polarisation. I believe that Norway should not be careful about the role of organiser. We need to increase political pressure and investment, so that more Norwegian research takes place at Svalbard. More specifically, I believe that research in the northern regions should be an important pillar of our policy on the North, which several of the representatives have already spoken about. It keeps pointing here to the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, where research and knowledge are emphasised as the very hub of the strategy. If the Government is serious about this, the Norwegian research at Ny-Ålesund must be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1240	I would like to thank the representative Lånke for raising this important theme in Stortinget. The left agrees that the north is one of Norway’s most important strategic areas and that it requires a targeted policy focus. Natural resources in the north and the consequences of climate change pose major challenges, but also opportunities for Norway, including: relative to being a driver for finding solutions and new knowledge. Our geographical position thus gives us considerable responsibility, especially in the context of research. There has already been a lot of talk in this debate about how important it is to invest in research as a carrier in the Northern Region Initiative, and I also notice that research – at least at rhetorical level – is prominent in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. I have, however, taken particular note of one of the key elements of this strategy, namely what concerns the culture and the basis of life of indigenous peoples. Governments have a separate responsibility to preserve and further develop the culture and life base of indigenous peoples, which are also part of the common cultural heritage and the basis of life in Norway. The relationship of indigenous peoples with nature is something that binds the peoples of the northern regions together across borders, and is also important in terms of further developing and establishing new knowledge of nature, climate, environment and food routes. I am also concerned about ensuring research on environmental and climate change, and how these changes affect indigenous peoples and their livelihoods. In other words, the build-up of competence in the time to come must go both ways. Because it is a fact that the harvesting and use of nature is essential for the continuation and preservation of the Sami culture, language and way of life for the future. Agriculture, fisheries, off-road industries and duodji are very important Sami industries, while at the same time important cultural carriers. There are great opportunities for value creation and product development based on Sami primary industries and culture. Therefore, it is necessary to be able to better document the Sami traditional knowledge. The sewerage industry is an important Sami primary industry, but it is also an important Sami cultural carrier. Pasturage and calving land are currently under strong pressure from all sides. It is important that the areas of reindeer management are safeguarded for the future, but research in this area is also very important – in order to prepare reindeer owners and authorities for the changes that could result from climate change, heating reindeer pastures and changing the use of the Arctic. In view of this, I believe it is positive that the Government is calling for the establishment of a cultural-based economic development programme, which recognises the resource of indigenous peoples' traditions and knowledge. I also notice that the Government announces that they will strengthen the capacity and competence of the Sami institutions. That's good, and there's a lot of environments of expertise that have a lot to contribute to this. For example, the Sami College can contribute a lot of valuable expertise and research in this area, and I would like to highlight in particular the importance of strengthening and continuing the research project «Ealát» at the Sami College. ‘Ealåt’ is a Sami word that means good pasturage. It is related to the term "eallu", which means "reinflock", and has its origin of the word "eallin", which means life. In other words: Beite is the basis of the reindeer flock, and thus life in the north. The «Ealyst» project is a very important initiative from, inter alia: The World Federation of Reinhördningsfolk, in cooperation with Samisk Högskole, Norway's veterinary college, the University of Tromsø, NINA and many others. However, I am very concerned that this strengthening is actually happening – that the institutions are actually strengthened in the budgetary procedures that are coming – and I hope that the Council of State can assure me of this in its response.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1261	I want to start by thanking my colleagues at Stortinget for valuable input, which was a positive and valuable contribution and supplement in the interpellation debate. I would also like to say at the same time that the State Council of Aasland did not see any contrast between stepping up in Tromsø and in North Norway in the field of research and investing in Svalbard, including the University Centre, UNIS. If we can agree – and it seems like we could be – that both parts are important and necessary, then something can happen that corrects what has happened this year, in the time to come. It is clear that Svalbard and the northern regions are linked. They're not just connected in the Norwegian territory, but it's a very wide area. In fact, it is also leading to the southern hemisphere, and everything must be seen in a large and broad context. Clearly, the enormous arsenal of knowledge that we can draw from these areas is of vital importance not only in the climate field, but also in very many other areas of society for the whole globe. Norway has a unique chance here, while we are also set to manage the Kingdom of Svalbard under the Svalbard Treaty – a responsibility that rests heavily on us and which we are going to take most seriously. It is clear that we also have a chance here, not least through research infrastructure, and the network that is established far across borders in Europe and also other parts of the world in this area is valuable to us. I've allowed myself to focus on two areas in particular in this interpellation. One is the leading role. I would once again ask the Council of State to state that she agrees that Norway should take this responsibility as a leadership nation, and that this not only implies a leadership role on the mainland, but that we also ensure that it is anchored in the swallowing environment itself and in the research environment up there. The second is, of course, what we've been through, the UNIS institution, which I think at the moment is suffering from a kind of depression, because you have to reduce – as you have. I then recorded positively that the Council of State said they were in a dialogue on the budget, and I would ask her now to confirm that this dialogue is taking place seriously, and that one will return to a stepping up in the budget for 2010. In essence, I ask for a concrete confirmation of that. So I just want to say in the end that we're many people who've been happy in Svalbard here on the Stortinget, because we've got a lot of committee trips up there. Even I was on Study Tour North last year. It gave me a rich opportunity to experience Svalbard and the research communities around, both in the direction of international institutions and Norwegians. It makes us have some love for this part of the country, and want to contribute to the best for it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1276	I believe the interpellant and I can be united in our love for Svalbard. I can assure you that I see it quite naturally that Norway has a leading role in what is going on. We have had a leading role in an exciting transition from exclusively coal-mining roughly, and some hunting and fishing, and now to building up a very special research environment in the old mining community. It is also a bit reminiscent of the statement in the Svalbard post quoted earlier. I'm concerned that what we do on Svalbard is of good quality, that we do it in a proper way, but that we also do it in the pact with nature whether it's about coal drift, research or other activity. That's why there are some limits, not least in the New Ålesund, where we talked about a 35 pst. reduction of Norwegian researchers. I honestly don't think they're so many, because there's no room for so many there. But research both in the New Ålesund and in the Longyearbyen, together with the teaching there, depends on a very close and good interaction between authorities in relation to environmental protection and the protection of this unique island group and the important activity to take place there. I don't think anyone disagrees. This does not prevent me from following up the activity in the New Ålesund and in the Longyearbyen by ensuring that it is quality, and that it is still attractive both to research there and to be taught there. I can promise that the work on getting budget appropriations in place has a very important place in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government and in my role as Council of State for Research to develop this further. The government has provided a very offensive research budget during its period. We've had a stronger growth in research than previous governments. And we say in the research report, which we're going to get back to here in Stortingen, that we're going to keep doing this. We will continue to increase growth, and for me it is important to enable our regions, both in the north and elsewhere in the country, to carry out research in a good way. I imagine that the environments of the three northernmost states, Tromsø, Bodø, Narvik and others mentioned here, and Svalbard, are important nodes in this. We rely on neither of them being left entirely to ourselves, but that we have a strengthening of a network where these environments have an important role and can also have a factual division of labour between themselves. Of course, the whole Northern Region Initiative and the Northern Region Strategy also include what has to do with Sami culture and everything that has to do with Sami history and the Sami future. It's a problem that we're set to take care of, and it's included as an important part of it. But I'm dedicated to strengthening research and finding a good balance between research and nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1287	So the debate is on case No. 5 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1303	As a member of the Judicial Committee, I must admit that often there is much of the debate that the Judicial Committee is taking, the situation. It's of course a plus, because it can be day-to-day and affect individuals' concerns. At the same time, it is probably the case that the Stortinget, and perhaps the Justice Committee in particular since it has a lot of the legal stuff, also needs to stop and take up the slightly larger debates on a regular basis. My interpellation this time is just a desire to have such a kind of debate, and take a little bit more of a grip on the more fundamental things to see if we have good and reasonable anchors. There is no horizontal criticism of Norwegian courts in it, more a question to the Council of State if he is satisfied with the current situation. Nor is it that the interpellant has the answers to what is right and wrong, but he has some challenges and thoughts about what is the situation today. The main element of my question is simply whether we have the reasonable independence between the judges and the experts. The reason why we should take such a debate is among other things. history, both close and distant history. The Bjugn case is one that has affected – I guess – all politicians heavily, especially in retrospect, when one sees that the judge ended up wrong. We have the Torgersen case, which has been going on for a long, long time, and which is still under discussion, and not least the Fritz Moen case. As a comment in connection with the Fritz Moen case, I will give tribute to the Council of State for the way he has behaved, and the regret he has expressed to Fritz Moen and the injustice he was subjected to. It shows how important such a debate can actually be, at my discretion, for what is going on for some of these cases is that there is a murder of justice, and a murder of justice is in many ways a disgrace to our legal history. To the extent that we can prevent it from happening again – and that must be our goal – the more important and better it will be. As a counterbalance to that, we are so lucky that we have a resumption commission in Norway. It's an excellent tool, at my discretion. It is a tool that can be used to bring up issues that have initially been dealt with in the judicial system, and that is the end of it. I've said it before, and I'd like to say it again, that any state of law that doesn't dare to ask questions by its own excellence is not necessarily a good state of law. In this way, I will give all the honor to the Resumption Commission and the job they do. Furthermore, in some contexts, experts are absolutely necessary. It may be in child protection matters. In the following areas, experts will undoubtedly have a heavy and essential role, and so will they in land change matters, where they depend on having people with special skills to do the job. In ordinary cases, it will be that experts will be appointed to a far greater extent where necessary, and that they will provide advice based on their professional position. The challenge will then be to ensure that wrong decisions are not made, in other words, the murder of the judiciary. Then again, the judges focus on the right input from the experts, while the court retains its independence, and that one does not unilaterally choose to go what I might call the ‘minimum resistance’ path. That this is important, is raised above any doubt, and Hans Petter Graver has among other things. expressed the following: ‘An examination by lawyers of their opinion on reasons for incorrect judicial decisions brought forward the suspected adverse influence of the experts on the court as an explanation of wrongful judgments.’ It is clear that there is a serious warning, because the challenge in it lies at my discretion in the ability of experts to act objectively and in the ability of experts to share facts-related knowledge. Something else that Graver has also said, which I think should be included, and which it is timely to look at in this matter, is the following: ‘By requiring experts to perform a task which is fundamentally alien to their professional role, they may feel obliged to carry out tasks relating to the decision-making apparatus which are not related to their actual and professional tasks.’ Then, in my opinion, you are at a point of intersection where you should be very careful about how to proceed, just to make sure that what is to be done is professional, that you are not dyed unilaterally by one or the other, but that the experts assist and make purely professional input to the court so that the court can make the best possible work. I don't know if it's going to be a parallel, but it hit me when I sat and thought through the introduction to this interview: we sometimes have a discussion about the jury system. We had a discussion about the jury system in relation to the rape sentences. It has been claimed that some jury members have a wrong attitude, and for that reason we should consider whether, for example. a jury shall continue to deal with rape cases. It's a debate we're taking on the assumption that we don't necessarily like the outcome of the jury. I think it makes sense to ask the kind of control questions that you do assessments of it, but it has to be done on the right basis. Similarly, I would like to challenge the point of balance between the ability of the Court to make an independent decision and the influence that is perceived by the role of experts. In this I could imagine challenging the Council of State as to whether he sees the need for more research, more knowledge in relation to this particular point, the intersection between the professional and what the court is going to do. Or is it that the Council of State feels that we have enough, that we know enough, and that we are satisfied with today's situation? As I said, the carrying point for my part is not to distribute blame to anyone, but it's simply to ask questions about whether today's system is optimal. We also have other contexts where this becomes important. A debate I attended, together with the Council of State and, among other things, Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, in charge of custody. The department, possibly imprisoned, says that one is skeptical about releasing someone, while one thing is right to try it out and say no, he should be released; we believe this is clear for doing so. I'm not saying it's wrong. But it does something when those who have the daily responsibility for him are skeptical, another department has said that no, this is wrong, and you come to another conclusion in the court. It might have to be that way. But I think that if it's going to be like that, it's at least important that the Storting as a premise supplier for this is conscious of its role and makes sure that we do the right grips at any time that it's possible. The aim must be to ensure that no more murders are committed. It's probably going to happen again, but I assume that the Council of State and everyone else agree that we have an obligation to try to prevent it. That is why I think it is quite appropriate to take this kind of debate. My challenge to the Council of State now becomes if the Council of State sees the need to make some changes between the balance sheet point today as regards the independence of the courts and the experts, and if the Council of State has thoughts about concrete measures to change that can just improve?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1337	First of all, I must agree entirely with the interpellant in the introductory words about being able to draw up precisely this kind of debate also in politics. It's very important. We know that the experts, both in civil matters and in criminal matters, play a more important and important role. The role and functioning of experts is called into question. In this way, it is about the legitimacy of the entire legal system and the important decisions to be taken. Therefore, this is certainly an important discussion, even in the light of the prevention of wrong decisions, whether civil or criminal. This is not the first time we debate this in Stortinget. The representative of the Grand Duchy of Olav Gunnar Ballo drew up an interview, which was answered on 24 November 2006, on the use of experts in legal proceedings and the degree of influence that expert statements have in Norwegian law. The question that was asked at the time has points of contact with the interpellation that we are dealing with here today. In the courts, a number of complex and demanding issues are addressed. The use of experts in legal proceedings is important to clarify professional issues in areas where the court does not have specific competence, and the court is almost entirely dependent on the experts contributing to the disclosure of the case. This applies both in civil matters and in criminal matters. It is important that all parties intervene in relation to the experts, have the opportunity to ask them questions, objections, and at the same time have a certain ability to control the expertise exercised. On the specific issue, whether there is a need to clarify the role of experts and judges, I am of the opinion that there is no particular need to clarify this role through regulatory changes. The rules in this area are basically clear. The experts contribute explanations and investigations which are to be regarded as evidence. An expert evidence is just one of many evidences in the matter. The Court of First Instance shall not be bound by expert judgements on facts but shall carry out an independent and free assessment of evidence. I underline the latter – because it may be where part of the interpellant's challenge comes, if you actually do an independent and free assessment of evidence based on the fact that it is on the table. It is to ensure a process that contributes to this free assessment of evidence. The judges alone shall decide on the evidence to be provided. However, the clarity of the legal basis does not imply that there are no challenges related to the role-sharing and relationship between judges and experts on which the interpellant is involved. This may, for example: is about difficulties which may arise in the face of jus and other disciplines, the different use of terminology and the interpellant's seas, the difficulty of interpreting its own role as an expert. There may also be a lack of knowledge among some experts about their own role, but also about the subject to be represented. To meet these challenges, there is a need for good competence and quality among judges and experts. My opinion is that we have a very good judgeship in Norway with a high professional level, and that is conscious of its responsibility for the use of experts. Nevertheless, there is a need to maintain a strong awareness of this issue. The use of forensic experts is a topic both during the initial and further training of judges organised by the Court of Justice. I think it's important to underline that for the future as well. I also believe that the experts who act in the courts are consistently above a high professional standard, and that they are important contributors to the good and proper decisions of the courts. However, we have experience in recent decades that has increased the awareness that expert opinions in many cases cannot be seen as undisputable fascist responses. I am therefore concerned that the work of the experts is adequately ensured. The various professional environments have a great responsibility in their field, and it is not enough that they are far ahead of them professionally. They also need to understand their role, including: In addition, it is necessary, inter alia, to: a culture of transparency with regard both to the subject and to the limitations of the experts themselves. In criminal matters, the forensic commission provides valuable quality assurance. The Commission shall have a high level of professional competence and all reports made by experts appointed by the Court of Justice shall be subject to quality assurance by the Commission. In my opinion, this helps to ensure that the material developed by legal experts in criminal matters is of consistently high quality. Important work has been done in recent years on quality assurance of expert opinions, such as: The Rognum Committee’s investigation, NOU 2001:12, which looked at forensic expertise in criminal matters, and also the Graver Working Group’s report of 16 May 2006, which assessed the use of health professionals in the justice sector, and, most recently, the 2007 study of the Mæland Committee, such as: the role of experts and courts in the Fritz Moen case, on which the interpellant was concerned. It gave us very important input. This work has resulted in many sensible and good suggestions. A number of the proposals have already been implemented and others are under follow-up. Of the proposals that have already been implemented, I would like to highlight the following: Training in forensics is enhanced. It has been organised and is working to organise courses for forensic experts in legal and ethical matters, precisely for the purpose of the role, as well as a top-notch course for forensic psychiatrists. A list of qualified forensic experts has been established. The forensic commission has developed a guide on investigations where unconsciousness is suspected at the moment of the act and a guide on how to describe physical damage to violence. Of the work in progress, I would like to mention that the Mæland Committee's investigation has been at the hearing. In line with the recommendation of the panel, the Ministry has proposed, inter alia, to legislate that both the court and the police/prosecution authority should be required to draw up written mandates and, where appropriate, additional mandates for experts. The wording of the mandate will ensure the transparency and traceability of the expert's mission, which is important for legal certainty, which I initially discussed in relation to opposition – the possibility for the parties to see what the mandate was, whether they have done what has been requested, and to check against it. The Ministry is now following up the hearings, and this work is a high priority for us. In addition, it may be mentioned that the Ministry of Justice is in dialogue with the forensic commission and with the legal psychiatric profession with a view to identifying measures to improve the recruitment and competence of forensic experts. It's absolutely necessary that we do that. It's a growing task, it's demanding, it's difficult, and we need people with skills and sense of role to do this work. It's a work we're now doing in the department. I will continue to work to facilitate the high quality and correctness of the decisions taken by the courts and to avoid false convictions. I believe that the quality of Norwegian courts is good, and that we have few false convictions in Norway – and we must say fortunately, because one single wrong conviction is too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1371	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was positive. I think it is positive that the Council of State is concerned that we need clear rules on how the experts should act, and not least their role. I think it is reassuring that the Council of State is concerned with the independence of the court, so that we do not get a turn one way or the other. I am also concerned that the Council of State underlined the importance of having cleanliness around the different roles. Nor am I in doubt that we have good judges throughout. But I think we sometimes have a challenge when judges are going to oppose strong experts. I think it'll be that in some context it could be easier for a judge to go where the experts stand, because it'll give a legitimacy to the verdict. In many cases it will be the correct one, but it may be that the experts are mistaken, cf. Some of the things I was in at the outset in my first post – the Bjugn case and other things that we do not want to experience again. Then I also think it is positive that the Council of State points this out with the degree of sloping safety of the experts. There I think we should be very good. Of course, it is a plus that the more qualified and good an expert is, the better he should be professional. However, it is also the case – it is happening both among politicians and among others – that sometimes personal excellence becomes more important than the job to be done. That is why it is important to have a regulatory framework around this. I don't know if it's allowed to say that you miss someone, but a fresh breath in this debate was Berthold Grünfeld. He would challenge the politicians, but also part of his own professional environment in terms of sloping safety on absolute facts that they came up with. He was a person who enjoyed great respect and who was able to take the roof and dry to say it as many others did not dare. In that way, he undoubtedly had an important function. So I'm glad that the Council of State spoke about the forensic commission, which has currently actually been in focus for various reasons. Another committee here in the house is going to discuss it further with the Council of State. However, it is clear that it is also a tool — and one of the main tools of the Stortinget, the Council of State and the Ministry to ensure that the rules drawn up are adhered to. And to the extent that I can ask another question, it will simply be if the Council of State believes that there are rulings in Norwegian courts where the judges lean too much against the judgement of the experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1388	To the last question, I'm standing by what I said in my post, that we even have a very good judgeship that is independent. But I can't fail to say that in some cases there could have been questions in relation to the courtship. We see that historically. I have seen it from my own experience, where, in my opinion, there was reason to ask more questions about the expertise and what was laid down, either in civil matters or in criminal matters. In criminal matters, it is of particular importance. There may be alpha and omega in relation to the issue of punishment or one for the most serious crimes. So, when it comes to establishing incalculability, you have to have very much the help of experts. But when you get closer to what's at the heart of important legal issues that depend on expertise, you stand alone as a judge with the decision. I think it's very important that the interpellant now raises the debate, so that we get a debate on it in society, and so that we don't get a development where the experts think that you're almost sitting with the whole fasitite alone, and that that's right. It is important to raise this debate, particularly in criminal matters, in order to gain the understanding of the role of experts and the evidence requirements in criminal proceedings, which may differ from the subject under which they operate and the science under which they operate. It's often been a challenge. However, the debate is also important in view of the way in which expertise is drawn into legal proceedings. We have a long experience of involving experts as experts with judges. I believe that there is a basis for looking at the question of having experts in the hall as expert witnesses and observers instead of having them as co-judges, if it is such that you get more opposition around everything when you have them out there and not in the back room when you are going to dismiss them. Then I also agree with the interpellant when he points out that the Resumption Commission plays a very important role in being able to ask questions about expertise. We see that many of the issues dealt with by the Resumption Commission have persisted – to put it nicely – in the expert's report. I also feel that we have experts in Norway who are able to raise debates around their field and ask critical questions. We have it in legal psychiatry. It's necessary when we have such important terms that we need to clarify. As far as the forensic commission is concerned, I would like to say on the counter that let there be no doubt that the Government and we in the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice think it is obviously important, more than ever, that we have a free and independent forensic commission. We need it more than ever, especially now when we introduce DNA reform and use legal expertise as we do. That is also our goal in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1401	The interpellant Ellingen is addressing an important theme today. Trust in the courts depends on us feeling that the decisions of the judges are based on the most appropriate basis possible. In complex cases and in some disciplines, it is necessary to use experts in order for the Court to have the best possible basis for taking the right decision. There may be criminal proceedings with complex corporate structures, with parent companies and subsidiaries organised in the home and abroad. Experts may be required here to clarify the facts of the case before a joint judgment. Or there could be a killing case where legal psychiatrists say about the defendant's health situation at the moment of action. Experts may have different roles in the courts. There may be objective experts appointed by the courts, or expert witnesses may be on behalf of defenders, for example. a doctor or a psychologist. He/she then has a different role to that of a legal expert. As pointed out by the Council of State, the opinion of experts is not solely essential for the outcome of the case. The Judge shall make an overall assessment of the evidence received in the case. But it is of course important that what the expert says is right, as their opinions are often given great importance. In the United States, a study on the use of experts was carried out in 2005, and this concluded that errors by experts are one of the main causes of the murder of justice in the United States. These are, of course, issues we should take seriously and focus on, as there is a trend towards increasing use of experts in justice in Norway as well. The experts should be of high quality and perform a good job. We have not had so many cases in Norway where experts are responsible for false convictions – fortunately. Of course, we have to try not to do that, as it's fateful for the one who is wrongly convicted, whether it's a civil case or even worse, it happens in a criminal case. I'm glad the Council of State has a focus on this topic. He mentioned the study of the Mæland Committee, which is now being consulted. The effort on DNA will give us better access to safe evidence that can be used in the Norwegian courtroom. Because as American scientist Michael Saks says, it's just DNA evidence that's exact. Everything else is assumptions. We have to try to get a system of second opinion on DNA results if these are to be used in court. We have a safety valve in the Resumption Commission and the Forensic Commission that can give us important corrections if errors have been made first. We depend on experts in court. There are a lot of complicated things that need to be highlighted. I believe, as the Council of State, that regulation is good in this area. What is important is an awareness of the parties to the criminal proceedings, their own role and the role of each expert and the final decision of the judges on the basis of the evidence provided in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1418	This is a very important and good debate, better than any of us have had before today, and probably even more important than the debate that is being held on the liquidation of the residual jury system we have. This is actually even more, I mean, at the heart of what legal certainty is about or not. Both the Council of State and the representative of Ellingen have said a lot on the same day, so I'm not going to repeat it here. But there's a couple of issues related to this with criminal cases that I'd like to say something about. One goes on interpretation of DNA, and the other goes on analysis of testimony and sources of error. One thing is that the opinions of some experts can be given too much weight in each case, which is the breadth of use of experts and questions relating to the time when individuals have to prepare to be experts in the courts. I will not, like the representative Ellingen, go into the ongoing debate on the forensic commission – there are some questions from both the one and the other that you can answer – rather the DNA reform itself, but it is actually a problem in some cases that those who are going to act as experts get very little time to get involved in the reports that come from the RMI perhaps a little overdue late, so that they do not get prepared as well as they might wish to be experts in court. And there are a lot of people who don't want to reveal the professional doubt they might have, and they're perhaps speaking out with greater sloping certainty than it is in part for a short time to prepare for it. This should not be a Gena debate. In relation to second opinion, the government knows what the Right believes about Gena and the ability to get a real second opinion. But more importantly, something related to a question I have previously sent to the Council of State, about the credibility of witnesses, and that we have little research and a little environment in Norway related to it. Research from the United States shows with all possible clarity the extent of the source of error as to what witnesses can actually make themselves think that they have seen. Persons who have been questioned in a faulty and not completely foolish manner may be the best witnesses to the Crown in legal proceedings. Suddenly you have seen both the one and the other, and it actually becomes crucial that the matter goes in the direction it does. There is a lot of research from the United States that shows how important it is to have strong professional environments that can act as experts in relation to the credibility of witnesses. We do not have enough of that in Norway today. It's not a question directly related to today's use of experts, but actually how the government assesses the focus on research, on witness psychology, and how to imagine that you might organise it as a separate unit, which I've asked questions about earlier. It's simply because there's going to be more use for experts who are experts in witness psychology, alongside experts who can provide a second opinion on DNA. This is probably two of the largest possible sources of error in Norwegian right today. There are many experts who do not have the competence to reveal any misinterpretations made by witnesses. I agree with the Council of State that changes to the rules are not the solution, but the ability to make a free and effective assessment of evidence. This also applies to the individual judge, for a judge is also a single person who can be blinded by some experts, perhaps with clipping cards, who are better able to formulate themselves than others. After all, a lawyer is – humanly enough – in a way ‘kar’ when it comes to interpreting the Criminal Procedures Act. Professional humility is not necessarily more widespread here than among us politicians. There are some people with both one and the other education who are not exactly the most careful in being clear and clear. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Government for the measures it has taken to open the courts during this period. It is an important contribution to people's understanding and awareness of what is happening in criminal proceedings. It also contributes to the fact that judges may feel even greater than before as part of the community they are set to serve, and may not be able to hide behind the counter, as you could see for some years back in the former state of office. Finally, I have said a few things about criminal matters, but also in terms of economic issues, I would like to assume that it is not just in relation to winding up the jury system that it may be an argument that it is technical and demanding. It is technically and demanding for judges as well. This is probably the case, you might fear, in some cases where there was a great deal of inequality between the parties – for example. It was a bank that worked very hard in the 1980s to secure a mortgage – perhaps some detours. Per Sandberg might have said that. However, this also applies to judges, insofar as they are able to interpret difficult economic issues, such as: in bankruptcy proceedings. I asked for some comments on the two main points I raised. It's actually very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1435	It's been very interesting to follow this interpellation. It's important that it's been recorded. As mentioned, there is the second interpellation during the same peak period on the use of experts in the courtroom. That's what I think the Stortinge honors, because it's a complicated topic. Here we see that this is not a kind of theme where you get a polarization between government and opposition, but where you get to go into reality using experts in the courtroom. I have been in court for the past few months of my own interest in three different killing cases and have followed the experts. All three cases have concerned legal pathologists. It's all about things where there's been dope or obscene violence. The things are always different. But it's fascinating to see how what's initially the premise for a lawyer, not necessarily standing through the whole thing, just because you can get on a siding through a slightly subtle question. Then you can see that what may seem obvious to a doctor, suddenly it won't be for the judge, for the jury, or for a co-judgment, if you have it, just because the siding takes so much attention that the forensic expert can't influence it, it lives its own life. What strikes you then is the value this has attached to the type of assessment that you have technically up-to-date equipment. I have e.g. sees equipment where computer tomography has been used for three-dimensional images, where, in the case of stab wounds with sharp force, the duct can be seen all the way inwards, from the chest through the lungs to the way it is in the heart pocket, before, as a pathologist, an autopsy has begun at all. That means that the only damage that those present in the courtroom can see are the damage that was actually found there before starting the investigation at all. Several other similar examples could have been mentioned. But a nearby example is the technological development of the use of DNA, which has given an enormous advantage to fingerprinting. But then we see that RNA, which is the next stage of technological development, makes you not only able to identify with roughly 100 pst. security of what kind of person it is, but one can eventually also start to see what kind of bodies the person has. If this had been used in a rape case, you would, for example, have done so. could be seen in the oral cavity or in the spoon of what kind of parts of the body have been there, or, for that matter, what kind of fingers had put a mark on a neck. What you can see is that this kind of technology used precisely can give a completely different opportunity to solve crimes. At the same time, it is a major challenge to follow up on technological developments. What kind of will is there in a country to use the necessary resources to build up such a competence and maintain it over time? What you also see is that while what we call the somatic or the physical part of medicine used in the courtroom are relatively precise methods that are being used, the legal psychiatry, at least at the moment, does not have the kind of precise methods. Berthold Grünfeldt and the problematization he came with in his time, were mentioned here. That he asked questions about terms such as ‘at the moment of the act’ is quite plausible. You get people who are declared unaccountable at the moment of the act. They are therefore not liable for criminal law and must not be responsible for the fraud. But they still run away from the crime scene, remove the tracks and come back to the crime scene afterwards in full assurance that it is not good that e.g.. A shoe you lost when you ran away lies there. At least you have an element of consciousness at the moment of action. It is important to include this type of problematisation in the assessment in the context of legal texts and regulations, so that there is no question of yes or no, but also graduation in the case of legal psychiatry. It also makes it extremely exciting to see how this field can be developed over time. I'm going to start working on this subject, looking enormously forward to, for example. to have just to do with the Storting, as a body that will play a key role in the development of this type of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1444	Let me start by thanking the incoming director of the RMI for the invitation, which is, of course, received with an open yes from here. I would also like to thank those who have taken part in the debate. I think it has been a good and tidy debate, and we have always been able to focus on what this is about, namely that the decision of the Court should be as correct as possible. Fortunately, we are happy to avoid running political polemics on principles of law or non-justice, and we have talked about some of the important prerequisites for that. In particular, I have to pay tribute to the last speaker, who I think had a vivid and good description of many of the dilemmas that exist, some of which are fairly clear and precise, while the last thing that the representative Ballo had in mind is more abstract – one is given to the degrees of expert judgement. When you put it in the light of the description that Mr. Ballo finally took, it must be allowed to ask questions about how exactly that kind of science can actually be. That also shows some of the dilemmas that we have. But once again, as I said, the goal has been to focus on making sure that the Storting has a grip on what's going to happen, that we avoid, as far as possible, the murder of the judiciary being committed, and that you keep looking for improvement points. Once again, I will give tribute to the representative Ballo, who pointed out two things. It is clear that on the technical side, I think there are solutions and equipment that we may not have today, which we should have had in advantage, because it would make matters even more accurate. When you get to the human side, it'll be harder, because it's much harder to measure. But I hope that the Council of State in its last post here will confirm that the Government has an ambition to continue the RMI and this type of services and the forensic commission, so that they can be the tools and can help to make this the best possible. It would be sad if we were to end up in a situation where there is a lack of funds that leads to the murder of the judiciary. I think that's a mark on the leaflet that neither the Minister of Justice nor any other Minister of Justice would like to have. In that way, I think we all have a common cause to make sure that it doesn't happen. If that's possible, I don't know, but the ambition of the Storting should be that anyone should do the best you can to ensure that what happens is done on the right basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1457	Yes, it was an interesting debate. All the recordings that have come, we're going to take with us in the further work, and some of them I want to draw out in particular. It is crucial for the question of expertise that we, like others, do not stare blindly at the expertise – that, when you receive a qualified answer from experts, you can conclude that you are facing criminal blame, for example. Sometimes we get so concerned about it that we forget that what's leading in e.g. a very common criminal case, is quite different from the expertise itself, but it can help to create a puzzle. DNA is a very good example – the representative Oktay Dahl is inside it – interpretation of DNA, but also the question of the width of the whole thing. After all, the DNA reform would be a major disaster if it were to create a development in the judiciary where the detection of DNA at a crime scene is almost the same as the culprit. So in that development, it's especially important that we have a awake, courageous sense of judgment. So the representative Oktay Dahl moves a little outside of the interpellation – but it's very interesting – when he comes up with questions about the testimony, because it's important not just in terms of expertise, but it's of direct relevance to those who are going to refer to it. It is absolutely right that we from the justice sector have not been committed to contributing to funding our own research unit around the certificate, partly because I believe that it is the other department and agencies in society that need to take care of. But that doesn't mean that on our part it's not interesting to look at opportunities to strengthen the research around the certificate. That's what's needed. The testimony is perhaps one of the most risky things we can have to do in a Norwegian courtroom. Most of us usually remember faults in describing the color of a car, whether he had a horsetail or whether he was short or tall. So I'll take that with me. I also believe that the representative Oktay Dahl has an exciting input into the issue of economic issues and expertise in economic matters. There we have seen a trend in which more and more people have pointed out that the experts are experiencing a completely different level of evidence from what they are doing in criminal law. Then the whole legal system gets caught by it, because it's complicated economy. It is a major challenge for us that we need to bring with us in the development of ecocrims, but also in the development of expertise as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1470	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1486	On 16 May 2002, the previous Judicial Committee held a heated debate on the new rescue helicopter service. The debate afterwards was on the establishment of a police helicopter. When the previous Judicial Committee held its best debate, the debate on the rescue helicopter service won. It says a little bit about the status and the place it had, and not least the scope and interest of the theme. That's also why I choose to challenge the Council of State on this today. For Norway, there is no doubt that one of the world’s best rescue services is ongoing. I think that's raised above any doubt. The job that Airlift does on Svalbard, and that the 330 Quadron does for the rest of the country, is clearly at the top of the world in terms of quality, and it achieves well-being both nationally and – not least – internationally. Two years ago, I had the pleasure of having a visit by a NATO committee of which I myself am a member. I took them to Stavanger. We visited the main rescue center, and they were allowed to join and fly rescue helicopters. What was the continuous feedback from them was: this is unique, here we have a lot to learn from the Norwegian model. All possible tribute to the Norwegian model, all possible tribute to all those who assist people in need. The challenge, however, is that today's fleet of rescue helicopters is getting reasonably old, to use such a concept. That means that we have some challenges on the maintenance side and on the flight operations. That is why Stortinget was reasonably clear at the time that we need new machines, and that we need them relatively quickly. After that, there has been a process. There was a process around the unit helicopter NH90, which the defense would have. The defence that the operator also wanted as a rescue helicopter. This probably led to Bondevik II going a couple of rounds with themselves before they concluded what they were going to do. If they concluded, I'm actually not sure about that today. It is probably also a fact that the defense should have had its first NH90 helicopters delivered in 2005. They're still not here. I am pleased that today's government failed to cut it aside and moved the attention then to the degrees to the purely rescue profession. Again: All sorts of favors to the Government for the grip they did at the time. I think that's good, and I think that's very positive. The discussion about who is the operator is kind of a non-case now. What is important now is to focus on the new machines that need to be put in place, and not least that it is done through purely rescue professionals. Then the challenge, as I understand it, is the time process in this. I perceive that it has been suggested in 2013–2015. I had hoped that we would manage to get it done before, but if that is not possible, which I assume the Council of State will come into, I hope at least that he has a good reason why it takes so long. I also hope that there is an assessment by the Council of State of how much extra costs on today's fleet are calculated in time, since we have to wait so long. I also hope that the Council of State can say something if you still have to choose what is best served as a rescue specialist. Norway has a large fleet of civil helicopters, including: in the North Sea, from which I assume you gain experience. The Danes have chosen one model of rescue helicopters, Canada has the same type, and the English have several types. Then there are many other countries from which I am sure we can gain experience. That's what I expect the ministry to do on the way to the final decision here in the country. But what's important to me is that something is happening now, not least that the Storting might get a better and wider feedback. So far, it has been largely through a section within Chapter 455 of the budget, where something has been said about the process and where it is going. It would have been nice with even wider feedback, not least when it comes to when and how. Not least, it would have been interesting to hear from the Council of State if he could say something about how the selection as such is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1512	The representative of Ellingsen claims that the process has been affected several times by various defects, and that Stortinget, among others. decided to phase in new rescue helicopters during 2008, if possible. I do not recognize myself in parts of that description. At the same time, I would like to express at the outset that I believe that the interpellant describes the Norwegian rescue service and the rescue helicopter operations in a very good way. We must be glad that we are now in such a situation that we too from our foreign colleagues are actually met with descriptions such as that this is a service that works well and that you actually see. There is good reason to have full pressure on getting new life-saving helicopters. The government is concerned that we should have a good rescue service. We follow up on what we stressed in the Soria Moria Declaration on the security of the population. In our modern society, as the government sees it, it is essential to have a competent and trained device that can save people in distress and limit the consequences of accidents and other adverse events. The current series of NRKs clearly shows what kind of work is done, and the importance of having suitable equipment to save lives and help people in distress when the accident strikes. Where the previous government was only able to establish attendance watch arrangements on the Sola base, our government has completed the introduction of a 24-hour attendance watch system with doctors on the other rescue helicopters, i.e. Rygge, Orland, Bodø and Banak. This ensures faster call-out in search, rescue and ambulance missions, and the response time has now been reduced from approx. One hour down to 15 minutes. A new base should be established in Florø during the year in line with the Stortinget decision. There's what the Storting knows, granted money, and construction's on its way. This will provide an improved preparedness for the people of the North-West. I'm not hiding that the government's priorities in this work for the first time have been the base structure and getting what we're getting into place. At the same time, we are also pursuing the objective of developing the rescue helicopter service so that overall it appears with the best possible preparedness throughout the country and with proper equipment. These measures, together with the Government's decision to launch the process of acquiring new rescue helicopters to replace the current Sea King – it's a great lady, which I've been quoted correctly – represent large and significant parts of the government's commitment to a qualitative improvement in the entire service. Overall, the investment in the rescue helicopter service increased by a total of 160 million. kr in 2008. So here it's also bet money. The process of acquiring new rescue helicopters to replace the current Sea King has been and is a demanding process, leading to challenges of a different nature. However, the government attaches great importance to implementing a thorough and tidy process – this is about big money and important sizes – so that we are sure that the overall best solution is achieved, and that we get the best rescue helicopters for our use. Today’s rescue helicopters have performed approximately 28,000 missions during the period they have been operating and have rescued or assisted an equivalent number of people. There's a lot, there's a formidable number, and completely in the top of the world when it comes to the operation of Sea King. Today’s helicopters have recently been subject to extensive inspections and maintenance programmes, including: the introduction of night vision glasses and may, if necessary, operate for many years longer if necessary. This has also been reflected in the operating costs over the last few years, which were also covered by the interpellant. We don't want to end up in a situation where we suddenly do not have publicly dedicated operational rescue helicopters because something unexpected happens in the acquisition of new materials. We have therefore chosen to keep Sea King updated until we are sure when they can be replaced. When the Stortinget in May 2002 — which was also the subject of the inter-pellant — addressed the rescue helicopter service notice in the future through Innst. S. No 156 for 2001–2002, Stortinget took one Roman decision in addition to the inclusion of the Storing Message in the protocol. The size decided to set up a 24-hour bystander with a doctor on the rescue helicopters bases on the mainland. It was in 2002. In 2005, we acceded, and we took the initiative to implement the Roman Numeral Decision as quickly as we could. In addition to this decision, which the Government has also taken in line with the decision of the Grand Duchy, no other decision was taken. However, the Committee asked for new rescue helicopters to be phased in during 2008 if they were allowed to be clean for production. There, in my opinion, the interpellant has a good description of what has happened, and the cleaning that I perceive has actually been done. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, is working too fully to replace today's material, because helicopters are also becoming progressively more expensive and demanding to operate. The cost level has more than doubled in ten years — this in a period when overall price increases have been around 20 pst. We see the challenges that come with such old helicopters, as they are maintenance-intensive, and Norway is gradually among the very few who operate this type of material. I recognise that preparing the reason for the acquisition of new helicopters has taken longer than we had foreseen. This has its causes in different circumstances, and let me briefly review the most important events on the way up to today, so that we get the right facts. Today's Sea King helicopters have been in operation since the early 1970s. The need to replace these was first addressed in NOU 1997:3 on the rescue helicopter service. In 1999, the Ministry of Justice started the assessment together with the Defence if rescue helicopters should also be included as part of the Defence Unit Helicopter Project. When Norway signed a contract for the purchase of 14 pieces. The NH90 also established an option of 10 paragraphs, on which the interpellant is located. Through Stortingen's treatment of St.meld. No 44 for 2000–2001 The rescue helicopter service in the future asked the Stortinget in its position the Ministry of Justice to assess the suitability of using the option. The size also gave instructions during the process of the notification that a ‘Helicopteral Forum’ should be set up to review the option measured against market alternatives. In 2001 and 2002, pressure on the Ministry of Justice — and the Government — also increased as a result of a lack of knowledge of the capacity of the option. In particular, the large oil, fishing and shipping user organisations were anxious to ensure that rescue professional considerations were not adequately addressed in relation to the option helicopter as future rescue helicopters. Helicopteral Forum concluded its work in 2003 and unanimously concluded that the option was not adequate for the requirements required for an acceptable coverage and capacity and that the acquisition should be made through a competitive bidding process. The option was renegotiated to try to meet the requirements of the Helicopter Professional Forum. The State was also several times complained to ESA and sued. Finally, in February 2007, the Government – a decision I am very comfortable with – decided that it did not want to use the Defense option on the NH90 as a future rescue helicopter, based on an overall assessment. Instead, the government chose to launch a new procurement process through an open bidding round. The justification for rejecting the option variant was based on several factors, but a significant reason was that the option variant did not prove to have sufficient reach capacity. In addition, the State could also run a process risk legally — which the Ministry of Justice could not recommend. This clearly demonstrates the challenges facing the state in large acquisitions where there are many interests and high values of gambling. What is most important for the Government is to ensure the best possible helicopter capacity that can save as many people as possible in a difficult situation. The Ministry of Justice therefore set up in October 2007 an appropriate project organisation to carry out the acquisition on behalf of the Ministry of Justice. The table was cleared in many ways in relation to previous history. It was absolutely necessary to do that. It took time, but I think it'll give the best result. The project was set up in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and holds, inter alia, professional expertise from the civil and military sectors. A significant parameter in the project's work is the established quality assurance regime on which the country uses all major State investments. It also takes time to say it nicely. The quality assurance is carried out in two phases, and shall, in the first phase, assist the State to ensure that the needs of the choice of concepts are comprehensive and comprehensive. The Ministry of Justice is currently working on the decision-making basis for the first quality assurance. I have previously informed Stortinget that the Government aims to phase in the helicopters from 2011 to 2014, but it now appears that the process will take longer. I will come back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way, and the invitation from the interpellant is neat and constructive. We should be able to present this matter more broadly to Stortinget so that you can get information about both the process and what you think. I'll take that call, and I'll find the appropriate way to do it. During the next phase, quality assurance of management data and cost estimates, including uncertainty analysis of the selected project option, shall be carried out. The aim here is that the quality assurance should provide the contracting entity with an independent analysis of the project before being submitted to the Enlargement for a decision on implementation. This is also comprehensive and time-consuming analysis to support the decision base for the final investment decision. When new rescue helicopters can finally be in place, in other words, it is too early to establish, but we will come back to the timeline when we come to the Stortinget with a broader case in relation to this. There are many factors that can still affect the process, especially when we are in the phase we are now in. Finally, the Minister of Defence has given me assurances that Sea King can operate longer than previously assumed, and that operations are possible for several years to come, in fact, by 2020. The supplier of Sea King also confirms that they will be able to provide the necessary services by 2020. Finally, I would like to point out that the acquisition process of new rescue helicopters, the establishment of bystanders on all bases and the establishment of a new base in Florø constitute a significant part of the Government's commitment to creating more security for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1569	Let me first say that I am also very comfortable with the fact that the Council of State is comfortable that we did not go further with the option of the NH90. That, I think, made sense and the best way to follow up what was the Greatness' ambition on 16 May 2002. It is quite correct, as the Council of State pointed out, that there were three-four elements that were absolutely crucial. One was a security guard. The second was reaction time. The third was a doctor as part of crewet, and not least was the reach and capacity criteria that there was a great focus on that time. The goal was, as the Council of State has rightly pointed out, that a good service would be even better. And that's what we're about to do. But I'm a little concerned when the Council of State now says that you have insurance from the Ministry of Defence that you can keep up until 2020. It is also quite correct, as the Council of State says, that there is a note, possibly in the pen of the undersigned, that if it were possible, new machines would have to be phased in during 2008. We're not there. In 2012, as the state council said was the shortest time horizon, we are ten years after the Storting decision. And if we're talking about 2015 – and maybe even further as the Council of State now said – we're ten to fifteen years after the Storting decision. I think that's serious, and I think it's bad. I do not think that is in line with the decision taken by the Stortinget. Because I realized that Stortinget had a time pressure because it was so important to get a larger machine, greater reach and greater capacity. The ambition was to follow up the demands and input that came from those who know more about the service than the Storting can, and in this way I am not reassured when the Council of State here indicates that it can still take many years to come in relation to what we anticipated at the time. The Council of State also says that there is a strengthening of the budget chapter. Yes, it is quite natural when the operating costs go up so much. I hope that the Council of State can maintain an active and strong focus on this phase-in, because I think that even though everything else has become good, it's still that the helicopter as such is one of the two most important tools. By extension, I would like to ask two questions to the Council of State. One is whether the Council of State can demand that there be some kind of scepticism in the Ministry of Finance for such a large investment. And: a few days ago there was a look at the Day Revy about Sea King, and the weight of Sea King when it came to landing opportunities at Ullevål Hospital. And then my question becomes in the extension of it: will the Council of State take the initiative to also facilitate the landing of Sea King, if the air ambulance can land, so that it also optimises and improves the rescue service overall?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1580	First of all, I want to confirm from this speaker that we are now putting full pressure, and have put full pressure, on getting this procurement project in good operation, and that the quality assurance regimes to be implemented are being implemented as quickly as possible. And I'm glad that the interpellant is so neat about what's been the bet and the will here in the Storting in relation to this: by the way, building a new base, a doctor as part of the crewet, and actually expanding the rescue helicopter service significantly – such a total collapse has given the Government support over these years. But that is not an argument for not buying new helicopters quickly, rather on the contrary. When we're going to serve the base in Florø, we actually need all of the helicopters we can get hold of. What's my concern is that we have to have a process around this that is neat and real and transparent, and of course ethically sound, because it's a big investment. At the same time, the quality regime must be in place. My ambition is that it should be in place, and we have this working in these days. Therefore, at least for the Government, it is a good solution to present to the Storting in a broader context – as the interpellant also had to do – and in a suitable form for the harvest what the further process of time will be for this. So ask the interpellant about skepticism in the Ministry of Finance. I believe that the Ministry of Finance has just refuted with the government's commitment to the rescue service. Last year, 160 million were spent. kr more, not only on the maintenance and operation of old Sea King helicopters, but also on the adjacent guards, so this understands the Government as a college. But a prerequisite for bringing everyone, both here in the house, in the finance committee and elsewhere, is that we do good quality assurance of this type of project so that we get the best machines at the best price. And there's a tension, to put it nicely. It is therefore important that the organisations that are to carry out this purchase and promote this project are well equipped to do so. That's the only way we get skeptics with us wherever they might be. Then I have also observed the case concerning Ullevål Hospital. And I observe that this is also a pressure problem compared to the fact that we're developing rescue services with doctors, which make it topical to land up there. I will deal with this with our department and ask it to investigate how we can have capacity there as soon as possible. I saw to my delight that Ullevål Hospital would also make an assessment of this question, so there I do not think the last word has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1591	The Minister of Justice had a very straightforward and precise summary of history from 1997, when we discussed for the first time the purchase of rescue helicopters in this room, and until today. Today's Justice Committee has also discussed this topic very many times. The review tone has been very commendable to the Government, in fact from all sides, because one has been able to put four new bases in three years of watch in place, and in addition one has a good start on the establishment of the base in Florø in the North West. This thing with watch has all the scared lives, we're going to have that with us. A joint committee said by the 2007 budget management that when all bases including Florø are in place, the Government has delivered what was Stortinget’s decision in the course of the examination of St.melding. No 44 for 2000–2001. The Committee repeated its work on the 2009 budget: ‘The Committee points out that the Government follows up its decision of the Storting in the examination of the notification of St.meld. [[2000-2001]] No 44 The rescue helicopter service in the future, cf. [[2001 - 2002]] Inner. S. No 156 There was no mention of any new rescue helicopters in 2008. So a joint committee agreed that the government had delivered the order the Stortinge gave, and gave praise to the Government. Read an interpellation, it doesn't seem to have happened very positively within the rescue helicopter service. Rightly, the interpellant said a lot of positive about the rescue service, and gave praise both for not jumping on the NH90 option, and for having a fantastic rescue service here in Norway. But I would also like to point out that only the previous government – the progress party-supported Bondevik II government – managed to get in place in just under three years, was actually on duty at the Sun. When we debated St.prp. No 59 for 2007–08, we also discussed the phase-in of new rescue helicopters, and the period covered was 2011–2014. The same was true of budgetary management. A joint committee also points out the importance of the rapid deployment of new rescue helicopters. The Minister of Justice has now signaled that the process seems to take a little longer. But I am pleased with the signal to come back to Stortinget in a proper way regarding the process of purchasing new rescue helicopters. I understand that it may be difficult to determine exactly when new rescue helicopters can be in place, as there are many factors that affect this process. I think it's important to point out that we need to take time to carry out a thorough and tidy process, so that we are, in total, securing the best solution for future rescue helicopters. When we then know that a significant parameter in the project's work is the established quality assurance regime on which the state is responsible for all the major government investments, and that this quality assurance is only in the first stage, I think it is a little irresponsible to jump on, to buy such a rescue helicopter now, without completing the quality assurance process. But it is possible that the representative from the Progress Party has more expertise and can decide which type of helicopter to choose, more easily than the project organisation. That said, I would like to point out that the costs of parts and maintenance – as pointed out by the Minister of Justice and the interpellant – have increased considerably, so it is important that we get a solution in place as quickly as possible. I would like to sum up by saying that the watch is in place. This with doctors on all crews is in place. The Florø base is on the way. So now there's the acquisition of new helicopters to be implemented, and they're going to have good range and capacity. The most important thing is to ensure the best possible rescue helicopter service that can save the most possible human being in the nud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1622	Also the Right is concerned that there should be a tidy process of quality at all stages. That is why we are also pleased that the Council of State is going to present this in a broad, real way in Stortinget. The short version of this debate is probably that we are all impatient. We are in quite a number of areas, both in the case of rescue helicopters, in the case of emergency networks, and in the case of ICT police. I share the concern that there may be a premise that you should wait until 2020 to get it, but I hope it was a description of a worst case scenario that you only have an emergency solution ready. In that case, it's good to have it. But I hope you don't use the defence minister's assurance that it will last until 2020, like a sleeper cushion. I don't see the Council of State as doing that either, but that you have the opportunity open – but that there is an opportunity we hope it won't be necessary to take advantage of. I won't go too far. This is not the time for political games. But it could be that this case can give ground, like a couple of other cases, for a debate on the extent to which one is able on the State side to carry out these kind of reasonably complex acquisitions. It's good to do it properly and properly, but afterwards we'll probably have plenty of opportunity to go through and maybe learn a little bit for the future when we're going to do similar acquisitions. The President who is sitting here right now does have some experience with state acquisitions that have been drawn in length. So maybe I'll tip this case off as well as it can be a matter that – if not the President here is getting hold of it – there will be an opportunity to go closer to the seams afterwards. The right is concerned — like the Workers' Party — that it should be done as quickly as possible, with the quality that we all expect. And then I want, since there's a need for praise, to praise the government for being in place. I guess we've done that before, but a good thing probably can't be said too many times, so we can show some roughness. It's just been 1 May. But in terms of the actual acquisition, I'm not going to go into detail and try to pretend that I have more flying knowledge than I have. I'm probably quite innately born also at that point, so I'll let it go with it, but hope that we get the best quality-assured case, with the width and level that the council here adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1633	The acquisition of new life-saving helicopters is a significant investment in life-saving materials for the next 30 to 40 years. It is therefore of the utmost importance that work be done in a thorough manner and that it is of high quality. I would like to commend the Government and the Council of State for the establishment of bystander on all bases, as well as the establishment of a new base in Florø. This constitutes a significant part of the Government’s commitment to a qualitative improvement in the rescue helicopter service and the security of the population. The government chose — many might regret it — to refrain from redeeming the NH90 option variant as rescue helicopters as a result of a single requirement of several hundred to the helicopter’s performance. The unit helicopter to which Stortinget was behind the thinking would give the Defense one helicopter type to operate and maintain, which would give huge gains. But these decisions are made and are not reversible. Although we all think that our Sea King helicopters have done and do an incredibly good job, we know that these ladies are beginning to notice their age. We have taken the freedom to choose new ladies. The cosmetic changes and interventions that have to be made on the old ladies, we have to admit that we are well aware of the wallet. It is reassuring to hear that with these changes they have the opportunity to live their lives by 2020. Then I almost wanted to tell the story of those who wore T-shirts where it said, "It's with old ladies like old wine." The older, the better. It might not be completely consistent with the technical standard, but we can take it with us. Finally, I would like to stress that we have a clearly improved rescue service that will function fully until the new helicopters are in place. When that happens, we've got a rescue and helicopter service that we can safely meet tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1646	I noticed that the interpellant himself summed up the entire debate in one sentence. He said, "Newly, all sorts of honors to the government." There is also reason to give, for it has been summed up that the bases have been put in place, and you have been given full crew on the bases. What remains is a significant investment. We're talking about significant billions to get new equipment in the form of helicopters. Then I studied the interpellation text with curiosity, because it says that Sea King is «a fine lady». The Council of State has confirmed that he has said so. I remember Leif B. Lilleggard writing a book about the fast routes, and then he said that King Olav is the queen among the fast routes. He had to defend it afterwards, for King Olav was then knowingly a king and not a queen. He stressed that the ships are female, but now the Council of State can confirm that helicopters are also female. I wasn't aware of that before, so I thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1653	Let me start by saying to the last speaker that it is good to confirm that Storting's debates can be clarifying. That's in that way a plus. I will not hold this debate any longer than is necessary, but I will say to the representative Heggø: I have at least not realized that this debate has been about something negative in the rescue helicopter service. It's about a focus on the last finish. The last part of the tool may be the most important one, and there are helicopters with larger capacity and greater reach. It's not like the Storting invented this because it had nothing else to do in May 2002. It was because there was professional input behind it. They were designed to change the requirements and what was in the big message from the Bondevik I government, or was it the Stoltenberg I government, in its time. Then I also register that the representative Heggø is concerned with the so-called Progress Party-supported Bondevik II government. In that case, the representative Heggø should have such self-confidence that she also uses the concept of the ‘worker party-supported’ Bondevik II government. That's when you cut, for example. in the police budget – this is an aproposal when the story is to be written. The most important thing, and what has emerged in the debate today, is that most of it is in place. There's still a big challenge. It's perhaps the most expensive challenge, and that's why the Council of State says he needs time to do this. That he needs time, I understand. Sometimes, however, quality assurance must also be speeded up. If it were to happen that could have been prevented if we had hurried more than what we elegantly do today, I think absolutely we need to assess the risk versus the price on the other side of this. When the representative Alf Ivar Samuelsen says we have a good and functional service: that's a reason why the Storting wants to do it even better. History shows that we've sometimes come up with cards, and that's what you want to avoid by putting new, even better helicopters in place. It has been consistently agreed by Stortinget. In that way I look forward to it. Then I have a challenge for the Council of State. I could imagine that the Council of State took an initiative towards its project group and challenged it to let the candidates in question make a so-called ‘aircraft off’, i.e. they have to show that they are able to deliver the product described by the Storting by proving it in practice, not just in theory, not just on paper, but that they are actually doing it through an operational experiment. I believe that the Council of States has a mandate to do so, and I think he should do so absolutely. Once again to the representative Heggø: if the council wants the Stortinge to decide what type of helicopter we're going to have, the Stortinge will do it. When the Council of State reports back to Stortinget, which he has promised to do, and chooses a model, I am absolutely sure that Stortinget will take that challenge on a tight arm, it obviously requires a qualitatively good work in advance, with recommendations. But the decision itself, I can hereby promise the Council of State that the Stortinget will be guaranteed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1669	I'll just briefly comment on some of the debate. I feel that the debate and the political efforts of all parties on the issue of Norwegian rescue services should be welcomed. We have far too few debates about, and too little focus on, precisely this important, security-creating part of the justice sector and the defence sector. There are large investments to be made. That's good reason to have a lot of political debate and political focus on. But there is also now a basis for looking at the overall functioning of the rescue services, and not just related to rescue helicopters. Yesterday I met the volunteer organisations working in the field. The question of their financial situation – The government has chosen to double the aid – the reimbursement rates, the question of getting leave, etc., and which is a very important part of the rescue service we have seen in total, as a total concept. I miss it a little bit that you give yourself a chance to take that kind of debate, because this is a very important field. I believe in such a way that the interpellant should be praised for having traveled the interpellation, and that we too, on the part of the Government, should give the Storting the opportunity to follow this process carefully. So I'm serious about that. For many in the justice sector, political debate only happens when something goes wrong or it doesn't go as we would have liked. The best way to prevent this is to be in the forefront of policy as well. Then I carefully considered in my main post whether I should really quote the Minister of Defense and her department's suggestion about the duration of the Sea King helicopters, because it could have been understood in the direction that some might have taken, that it was where the date was. As Stortinget has certainly noticed, I was careful to mention some dates at all before Stortinget got a little wider about this, and because I sail is a little stuttered in terms of when this could happen. It is the tendering process and the purchasing process that takes a long time, and it is the ordering time and the production time, that also takes time, and that we are not masters of. I hope that we can bring this to a better conclusion once we have also gone through a part of the quality work that is now being done. We're going to get back to this. 2020 was suggested as to how long this “lady” could last – now you can be happy in ladies, but old wine I’m not so excited about – but I hope that in good time before 2020 we have upgraded the rescue helicopter service in Norway, which is what a group of magnifications want, with good and sustainable machines that have good reach and good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1686	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1692	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1716	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1740	Proposal No. 2, from the left, says: ‘Document No. 8:35 [[2008-2009]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1766	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 23 April 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to apply the safeguard clause of the EEA Enlargement Agreement in the light of labour market conditions as a result of the financial crisis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1781	In Case No: 5, 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-05.ana.ud2072e1838	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
