ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e69	The representatives Åse Michaelsen and Borghild Tenden, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat The representatives Erna Solberg and Hans Olav Syversen apply for leave from 7 December to 9 December, both to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Janne Haaland Matlary, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Hans Olav Syversen. The representatives of the goods, for the county of Hordaland Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and for Oslo Even Westerveld, are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and Even Westerveld are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e110	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1, 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e149	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the 45 minutes working party, the 30 minutes progress party, the 20 minutes right, the 10 minutes Socialist Left Party, the 10 minutes centre party, the 5 minutes Christian People's Party and the 5 minutes left. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e158	Let me begin by thanking the Committee's members, each of whom has contributed in an orderly and good manner to the budgetary process of the Committee, and, with an honest and competent committee secretary, this is an incentive for us, hopefully, to use today's day to debate the real political differences and the different priorities of each party, as the idea is. On the part of the Central Party, it is important to stress that the Government's presentation to the budget reflects in a good way the priorities of the government party's election and the common platform presented by the Government in the autumn. The budget follows the course signalled by the Government in the previous period in important areas, such as climate, renewable energy, natural management, conservation of nature’s deficiency and many other important areas. It is gratifying to note that both the work on the budget in the Committee and the opposition's alternative budget shows that there is a broad political agreement on the main priorities of the Government. Renewable energy efforts are increasing, and next year Enova will distribute SEK 1.8 billion to key energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. In this way, the Government facilitates the exploitation of more of the great potential of our country to produce energy by means of wind, biomass and water. The government has joined forces with the Swedish government on a single green certificate market from 1 January 2012. Together with the recently presented transitional arrangements, this not only provides more funding for renewable electricity production but also for the care of those who want to invest in this important area. The efforts in the field of renewable energy research have increased sharply in recent years, which allows for important efforts within all the solutions in which we do not yet know the full potential, but which we know is part of the solution to future energy and climate challenges. Work on energy efficiency improves both in industry and in private households. This is also done by making greater demands on energy use in housing and construction. We must constantly strive to save energy and use our energy more correctly. Efforts to maintain layers and take care of natural degradation are continuing. The new laws of nature are followed up with promises that bring one closer to the goal of stopping the loss of biological diversity, and taking care of the lack of nature. From a one-sided protection focus, the new law has highlighted the principle that resilient management is often the best protection, and that the best way to take care of natural values is to interact with those who live and feed where natural values exist. Many are impatient to move forward in the important work of both climate and renewable energy. That's a view that we in the Center Party also share. It is important to stress that the actions and the promises contained in the 2010 budget do not fully meet all future challenges in these key areas. That is why we must move on. Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to produce more renewable energy and to improve energy efficiency must continue in the coming years. There has not been a collective opposition in recent years that has pointed out an alternative course to the Government's policy. It's not this year either. So we have to assume that there is a great deal of support for the priorities that the government is doing. The few times the opposition has gathered, it is to ask the government to bring in additional messages and plans within different sectors – well and well. For the Central Party, it has been important that the Government's work has been concentrated on obtaining concrete results in important areas. The government has also done so. The Copenhagen Summit, now under way, is getting calls from all over the world to take the climate challenges seriously. We, as representatives of the Norwegian Grand Duchy and as members of this committee, have a great deal of responsibility for and ability to share in the important work together. Finally, only two brief comments on the two issues relating to changes in the State budget for 2009: there is only one notification that the Committee does not have any further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e189	I note that the leader of the committee, Erling Sande, says that one has good proposals and good measures in the budget. But does Sande think that the biological deficiency is being addressed by reducing the measures in the fisheries sector, when we know about the challenges one faces with Gyrodactylus salaris, which was actually introduced by the state's representatives? Has a man handled it wisely?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e196	There are special reasons why this entry was reduced, which has also been done well in the setting. But when it concerns the Government and the government's commitment to both Gyrodactylus salaris and other challenges related to taking care of e.g. The wild salmon and other endangered species, that's to say that we're very concerned about it. It also reflects the budget in a good way on a number of items. And then I'm glad that this work is going to be done to a great extent in conjunction with those who live and live in the areas where the important natural values are. I also took that up in the article. I think that's actually something that the Progress Party and the Center Party are agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e206	I remember the Central Party's national meeting in Ålesund in the spring, where the green colour dominated, both as party color and in politics. There would be a huge effort in green jobs. I very much agree with this commitment that green jobs are important. But immediately after the election, in the first budget of the period, the foot was severely reduced for the creation of green jobs and its further development in 2010, looking forward to Uniol in Fredrikstad still having permitation notices out to its employees. The chairperson of the Committee is concerned that there is no overall opposition in the Committee. But at the same time, the chairman of the Committee says that the Centre Party is concerned with concrete results in important areas. Is this a concrete result in an important area, which also concerns this committee, with which the Centre Party is satisfied in the 2010 budget, in relation to the increase in the rate of biodiesel tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e215	The case of the biodiesel tax has been debated before in this Chamber, and the representative Hemdal is well aware of both the central party's primary view and what the government jointly presented. If you want to count green workspaces and see work with green workspaces below one, for example The bets through Enova are central. There the government and government have invested a lot more money. Green jobs have been created by showing willingness to produce renewable energy, because in the production of renewable energy industry is also linked to it. We see that clear signs now – exciting things when it comes to wind. So comes the competence of renewable energy, where there are also important jobs. The government can probably be even more green. I'm just recording that this government is considerably greener than the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e224	I have been delighted to travel a lot together with the representative Sande at various election meetings in Sogn and Fjordane last fall. This theme has our green jobs and renewable energy. In the last few weeks, these cases have been severely set back – Uniol and Norwegian Forest have been mentioned. In the NRK Sogn and Fjordane before the weekend there was a look-up that indicates that Bionordic in the Jostedalen in Sogn and Fjordane, which is the only producer of pelletssomnar in Norway, now has to permit everyone to add. What will the representative Sande say to all those who have invested in green jobs around the country and who are now very disappointed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e233	First, I want to say that these two copies, both Bionordic in Jostedalen and the Østfold company, are stories that are obviously not good. We don't want people with green jobs to be permitted. But at the same time, the image is much more nuanced, because on a lot of green workplaces across this country, developments are going in opposite directions. I also think it's very important to bring it with me. When the bet goes on, it's quite clear that the government is investing a lot more heavily on Enova. Enova gives – as I also replied to the representative Hemdal – the opportunity to invest in production, which can provide concrete jobs related to production, and then we see that, as we get up production in different renewable areas, there is also an emerging industrialisation around it. We hope that the increased permissions that have come to Enova will give us, for example: Bionordic's ability to retrieve back his workers and get speed on the sale of pellets, which is the specific product they deliver, when, hopefully, applications arrive at Enova in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e242	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e246	The climate challenge is the big and important issue. For this reason, it is the case that consistently characterises the budget in very many areas. In a few days, the world's leaders in Copenhagen will gather with ambitions to take new steps in the right direction so that our children and grandchildren can live their lives here on earth with at least as much quality of life as we do now. Norway is a small country in many contexts, but in the climate issue, the Government has given our country a global leadership role. I'm proud of that. Sustainable development means meeting the needs of current generations without undermining the potential of future generations to meet their needs. The UN has identified the main challenge for such a development as international poverty, reduction of biodiversity, anthropogenic climate change and the spread of environmental pollutants. To tackle the environmental and poverty challenges, environmental pressures from economic activity need to be reduced. The government is actively contributing to the implementation of an ambitious international climate agreement in Copenhagen, covering as many countries as possible and as many sectors as possible. The new agreement should be designed to achieve the objective of limiting the anthropogenic temperature increase to 2 degrees. The Agreement should also include measures against deforestation, cooperation on technologies and adaptation to climate change. Not only a substantial part, but a large part of the costs should be borne by developed countries. We have to start talking even more about the possibilities, and not dig ourselves into the worst scenarios. We can repeat that to the boring thing: we have the money. We have the political will. We have the people. We need the technology. I have great confidence in the knowledge environment in a number of sectors in Norway. Therefore, large amounts of money are spent on broad research for smarter solutions. We've done it before, several times, and we'll do it again. Our climate ambitions are reflected in the budget we are now dealing with. In almost all budget areas, the challenges associated with climate change are indicative of how next year’s economic activity is organised. The follow-up to the climate communication and the climate agreement takes place through increased investment in the budgets of several ministries, both for action and for research, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t We have spent SEK 2.1 billion on action against deforestation in developing countries. This is an increase of 600 million. kr. In addition, a commitment mandate has been proposed to enter into agreements of NOK 1.4 billion. We have an increase in carbon capture and storage appropriations of NOK 1.6 billion. We also have an increase in the basic renewable energy fund and energy efficiency improvement of NOK 5 billion. We have an increase of SEK 300 million. kr for renewable energy research and CCS we have an increase of 50 million. kr on climate research The Ministry of Industry also has 100 million. SEK to a new climate technology grant scheme We'll see about the budget in place, by post. We see how the conversion of car charges in a greener direction is continued. We see how our aid is moving in an increasingly environmentally friendly direction. We're looking at the massive escalation the government has on rail and other public transport. We are looking at the commitment to renewable energy through Enova, and at the fact that the Government also rates carbon capture and storage, CCS, in this area. In this area, we are betting billions, and we are world leaders. These are just a few examples of many. The 2010 budget is a budget for a better global climate. The red-green government has chosen to trade where one has previously chosen to talk. We put action next to the political richness of words. This distinguishes the red-green government from the civil option. With regard to the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, it was strengthened by almost 25 pst. in 2009. It is therefore very gratifying that this increase is not only being continued, but that we can add on further. This helps to underline the major environmental policy focus of the red-green government. This enables us to maintain and continue a good and important environmental policy work in very many areas that are important to ordinary people around the world in their everyday lives. Let me just mention a few examples to illustrate this: we're maintaining the pressure on the fight against gyro. This is important very many places around the country. We can continue the very ambitious plan for liming. We can continue the good work of cleaning up old sins in relation to pollutants. We can also guarantee attractive free space for the public in public purchases in the future. In addition, considerable resources are provided for the follow-up to the recently adopted Nature Diversity Act. As far as the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy is concerned, of course, the development of the technology centre in Mongstad is stealing a lot of the headlines. The government proposes to increase the allocation by SEK 1.6 billion to approximately DKK 3.4 billion for the further work on CO2 management at Kårstø and Mongstad, the operation of Gassnova, international CCS work and research. Norway has become a leading country in this area. Technology will contribute to lower emissions in Norway, but in particular it could become an important export article in order to contribute to lower emissions in other countries, as indicated above. coal-fired power plants. Never before has so much money been spent on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement in Norway as with this government. The government proposes to strengthen the Renewable Energy Base Fund and energy efficiency improvement by DKK 5 billion to a total of DKK 25 billion. With the government's proposal, Enova will spend SEK 1.8 billion in 2010 on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. Enova has been delivering very good results in the last four years, with an energy result of about 8 TWh. Overall, renewable energy production and Enova have delivered 12 TWh to the Government, almost doubling over the period 2002–2005. We also suggest strengthening the NVE by 50 million. kr to proceedings for the advance of concessional treatment in the case of wind power projects, small-scale power plants and district heating plants. This bet is then added to the capacity increase of 50 pst. which came into the revised national budget in 2009. Climate change is leading to an increased need for prevention against race, migration and floods. The state's scrapping aid is now being collected in the NVE. In total, the Government proposes to increase the appropriation for NVE's scrapping work by 25 million. NOK 108 million in total. kr. This means strengthening the cutting work by 34 pst. The challenges in case of an emergency may be too great for municipalities to deal with them alone. In 2009, therefore, the Government will give priority to building up the NVE’s administrative apparatus to assist municipalities with tailoring, land planning and anti-slip protection. I have to mention Kårstø, because the work goes according to plan, and the government will make the investment decision when the basis is available. The government will await the construction of the fishing facility until we have a clearer picture of the operating situation. Until February 2010, Gassco AS and Gassnova SF shall carry out an investigation of integration between the gas processing plant and the gas power plant with CO2 capture plants on Kårstø. The investigation will form the basis for further assessments of an integration solution on Kårstø. The draft budget has a clear and forward-looking environmental profile. It is proposed to increase the appropriations for CO2 management, as I mentioned earlier, on Mongstad and Kårstø and for the purchase of climate allowances to meet the Kyoto agreement. The climate agreement in Stortinget and the Government's announced commitment to measures against deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries follows up the Government. Finally, we have now had a major debate on biodiesel in this Chamber. I believe that in this room all parties, almost without exception, have agreed that this is a fee to come, but we have disagreed on when it is timely that the fee comes. The government and the red-green in Stortinget think it's right that we get this in place now, and in addition, we put one in 140 million. kr for research and development on second generation biofuels. In the end, I look forward to the large majority in this Chamber folding up their sleeves, together, in terms of both the climate agreement and not least the meeting that is coming in Copenhagen this weekend. I hope that the agreement and the intentions laid down in Copenhagen are a basis for us to continue working with measures that we are going to use both domestically and abroad. This is not just how we can lead Norway, but the world in a good direction globally, which means that future generations can say that the leaders today did their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e326	The power-intensive industry is located in District Norway and developed due to the availability of hydropower. This industry has benefited from change, environmental and technological development. Most businesses are world leaders in their fields. Several of these have their own power plants, and many have relapses between 2010 and 2020. The Labour Party attended the national meeting so that the industry could rent power plants for its own production for 30 years. Now my question is: is this the policy of the Government and the Workers' Party, or is now the rental period for power plants 15 years, as it has been before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e331	The Labour Party naturally supports what the Government has said in this area, but it is also not surprising that the Workers' Party has a decision at its national meeting that says that the period should be longer. Once upon a time, it was important for us to put in place the repatriation scheme. And then this is also a good contribution in the right direction for industry to have predictable framework conditions at 15 years. So it puts the Workers' Party behind with the rest of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e336	The representative Sund spoke a lot in his speech about the climate challenges and all the measures we should take, not least at home. It is clear that much of this will cost money, and somewhere the money will come from. In the Right, we are concerned that there should be diversity and competition on Norwegian soil to ensure good development, good dynamics and revenue to the State. In the budgetary position we are discussing today, the government parties have introduced a small increase in the budget of Petoros. It doesn't cover the usual price and salary growth, so it's actually a weakening of Petoro. If the Workers' Party believes that Petoro has a key role to play in ensuring diversity and competition, and ensure that Statoil ASA does not exploit its monopoly situation on Norwegian pedestal, why do you allow such a small increase to Petoro?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e343	Now I don't share Meling's opinion that the Workers' Party and the Government are not prioritizing Petoro, because Petoro has been strengthened as a result of the merger of Hydro and Statoil. Petoro was strengthened by 20 million. kr for 2008 in the light of the aggregation. There was a huge increase, and in the years after it, the 2008 budget level has been continued and adjusted for price increases. So it doesn't mean it's true that the Government and the Workers' Party don't give priority to Petoro, and you don't see the importance of Petoro's work. The government has just seen what Petoro is going to handle, which is so important that you have increased the Petoros budget by 20 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e348	The representative Sund said that climate was a major issue in the budget, and also that the government has worked hard for an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen. Despite the fact that the climate summit starts today, I would like to focus a little bit at home. In Norway, we emit 12 tonnes of greenhouse gas per year. person per person years, but if we look over the keel to Sweden, they have a emissions of 7 tonnes per year. person per person years. They're in another category. They've had a 9pst drop. Since 1990, while we've had an increase of 10 pst. during the same period. Now we have had a majority government since 2005, so it is not possible to blame for previous governments, and therefore my question is: how will the 2010 greenhouse gas emissions be with the budget we are adopting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e355	The commitment made by the Government to renewable energy, the effort made by the Government to transform the transport sector into public transport, and the job done by the Government to put the technology for CO2 cleaning in place in Mongstad and Kårstø, will be reflected in emissions in 2010. Now we're going from Norway to Copenhagen with the most ambitious targets and with concrete actions on what we want to do to reduce climate change emissions. Hopefully, when an ambitious agreement is put in place, the Government will come back – in close cooperation with the opposition – and the Councils have said something about what action to take to achieve the objectives set by Norway as a position on the table. But I also believe that with what is in place in relation to both the renewable investment, the transport sector and too much of the petroleum sector, there will be a decline in CO2 emissions. And in the next period when there's an agreement in place, we'll join with Hemdal in getting those emissions even lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e369	Energy in various forms has made Norway a rich and prosperous country. The technology that has been used in many ways, with energy extraction and use, has made us a technologically prominent country. In the current budget, it is important that we have a policy in which we can make the best possible use of this – both in terms of hydropower, oil and gas and also in terms of other new renewable energy sources – and take into account the different challenges we face. It is also important to facilitate the further development of our metal exports industry, to mention the most prominent. So in the previous article, we heard a little bit about how the government parties claim that they experience this. Having an overall approach and having a message is mostly for bureaucracy; it's paperwork. But there have been numerous large-scale reports in other committees over the past four years, and then there is a great deal of effort to talk about. In the case of a museum message, it's about having visions and the horizon of what you're doing, while having an energy message, an oil and gas message – so for four years it's been nothing but bureaucracy. I'm very happy that the tone is now a little bit different, at least from the councils, and then I also hope those in the hall here from the same parties follow up in the same way. From the Workers' Party we were told that this government has much more action and much less talk than the previous government. Now I have no great honor in the previous government – the Bondevik II government – either. But when it comes to action: internal wrangling is not the same as action. They're talking about Petoro being strengthened. Petoro says they're following up fewer fields now than before. It's not the same thing. It's possible it's action, but it's action in the negative direction. It's about giving industry the opportunity to rent power plants for 15 years, and looking at it as a step forward, while it's an intensification of what industry had. So it's going to be a completely unrealistic debate if you just throw these things out in this room without looking at the history. Is there a step forward or a step backwards when something changes in relation to what it was? When I hear this, it'll be like boasting of fine goals in a fight that you lose 5-0. You can be impressed by the opponent, but you can't pretend it's your own goal when you lose. What's important is to discuss what decisions we have to take in order for our future to be as bright as the story we can point to. The big picture that we have to take over is that we're part of the world, on the energy front, on the environmental and climate front. The IEA image is very clear: the world will need more energy, the world will need significant renewable energy – up to 100 pst. compared with 2005 in the next 25 years – the world will have to double the consumption of nuclear energy, and the world will actually increase the consumption of gas by 17 pst. and the consumption of oil with 4-5 pst. in order to reduce the total CO2 emissions resulting from the cessation of coal use. And then you're going to have a lot of energy efficiency, CO2 cleaning, up there. But that gives Norway great opportunities, because we're leading some of these areas: in terms of having resources, in relation to having an industry, capital, and to extracting them. We have a hydropower sector that is very good, and also in the case of petroleum, oil and gas, it is very good. We could have been better in other areas, but we can't believe we're alone in this. The reason why we can have a good industry in hydropower and in petroleum is that those resources are not evenly distributed around the world. Now when we start talking about windmills, bioenergy and geothermal, there are resources where the competitive situation is completely different. We no longer sit as one of the few countries that have a lot of resources on this. All the countries of the world have access to wind and to geothermal heat. There we don't have the same time to develop technologies. We can't have a break in research and development, because that's when other countries will go past us. I think everyone who reads the international energy journals sees that Norway is not as world leaders in the new areas as we believe. When I visited Washington DC and met Norway's ambassador there, he had been to an EU conference on CO2 cleaning that day in April. He said it was Norway itself that had to go up our project in Mongstad in order to be mentioned at all. All countries must focus on what they are doing, all the big countries. The EU, South Korea, China and the United States are developing this technology. Then this does not necessarily become a collection around the campfire where everyone sits and clapps each other on his back. No, everyone wants to make sure to be the leader and make money on this. Then we have to get a completely different action than talking about that a force Petoro, when Petoro himself has to reduce the number of fields they can fill. What we need to understand is that this is also about how to stimulate business to make the investments that are needed. The authorities talk about predictability, long-termity and completeness. Then it's enough just to look back at the debates that have been on the biodiesel issue in the last few months. Is it long-term? Is it complete? Is that predictable? It is then well understood why many in the business community actually go to NRK and say that they do not dare to invest more in Norway. Trust in the authorities is gone. It is not surprising that Statekraft and Statoil invest in renewable energy abroad and not in Norway. Then don't turn that debate around and say it's great that you invest abroad. Of course it's great! The problem is that when we have so much resources and potential in Norway and yet do not invest here and take out capital, then there is a policy with which there is something wrong – not the resource shortage, not patriotism. I believe that Norway must invest both in renewable energy and in petroleum. From a climate point of view, it is not a matter of either – or, but of both – and. No one has to doubt that there is renewable energy that must be our long-term success target, but that petroleum is a necessary instrument, a necessary energy resource, in a transitional phase for many decades. So when we have seen that there are still changes in these two areas, both in terms of objectives and instruments, and not least that they are not linked, it is not a very good starting point for the fight that we have to take and that one must be at the forefront of politics. I mentioned small power, bio and wind. I am very pleased that the Government has notified a notice of renewable energy. I just wish there was a message about energy, where one could have got the whole, got everything else that is not just renewable energy, and saw it in the context of energy saving, networks, government agencies, etc. What worries me is probably the promotion of a key message on renewable energy in 2006. If I don't remember faults, even then state councillor Odd Roger Enoksen in a hurry to a press conference one Sunday afternoon, because this was so important. The report, on four pages, was valid for just under one year before all the instruments were scrapped. That's why it's so important that we get a thorough review of this, get a width of it. I'm going to put the doubt to the benefit of Riis-Johansen this time and hope that it will be more extensive. You also have to involve Stortinget at a much earlier time. I want the Government to inform Stortinget about the work that is also taking place with the EEA regarding the renewable directive. What I'm afraid, is that the government is once again going to argue internally about what means you're going to have, and not have, and then you're going to get on your heels. We know very well that SV is opposite most of the hydropower. The working party reacts immediately to spend money on wind power. The Center Party has its friends in the bioenergy industry. But even there many of the actors are struggling, after all. In any case, from the point of view of the Progress Party, a better approach must be to have technology neutrality, to have a long-term perspective, to allow the industry to get the best projects first, so that through the NVE we clear up the bad environmental projects. Then a dare must accept that someone in the industry is going to make money. It must not be the case that once someone in the hydropower sector makes money, SV will have to raise the taxes, and that the central party will take the victory after the budget has been processed, by being able to bring them down to their initial level. Both have thus received their victory. SV got the taxes up. The center party got the taxes back down. But you're standing on the ground resting. The only thing that has really been done is a worse predictability. Energy saving must also be considered in this context. To me, it is strange that the government itself says that energy saving is the most important and most cost-effective, while at the same time you have very different grading of how much support you should receive. It just means that the government spends a lot of money on some marginal renewable technologies, which could have benefited much more if it had been used in industry and in the household. Therefore, an overall approach should also be adopted to improving energy efficiency. In particular, Norway is the only country in the EEA area without an energy saving plan. We also need to look at online policy. I have to ask myself what every day the government is doing, when the two most important issues now are that one should have one network lease across the country – I am sure that the Council of State itself knows that there will be major problems in terms of income regulation for the network companies – and that one has the staffing standard as one of the major issues. I am fully aware that the government has presented a web proposal where many themes were taken into account, especially the status quo. But where was the issue of income regulation? All the broadcasters say that it is the big thing to be able to build networks to connect the renewable energy. The opposition is asking for the creation of an expert committee on the technologies available – then we are talking about the central network – to take that debate a step further, if not otherwise. We see in a lot of contexts, especially in the election campaign, that the vast majority of politicians, almost regardless of the party, are out saying that we have to wire, while of course they are going to build the renewable energy. Everyone knows that we probably can't afford that cable. If we get a selection of experts, it might help set the standard for how the political debate should be in that we actually get a little bit more than two lines below the answer as to how much things cost. It is very easy today to make claims that we have such good drilling technology in the North Sea that one can drill for these cables cheaper than pulling them in the air. I don't believe that. But I think the world today is different than it was in 1991. If you talk to people in the power industry and ask them what new signals have actually come from high voltage and wiring versus air voltage, they will say that since 1991 there have been no new signals. All governments have said that they will follow this closely, but some new concrete political signals are very few that have actually heard of. That's why it's important that we formalize this debate a little bit, take it inside the main hall, rather than just having it in the media. I also have to ask myself the question: what do we want with Statnett? Instead of contributing more capital, an increase in the share of equity in the company. So one borrows the company higher and higher. The Progress Party has proposed that one should review the equity situation in Statnet. It should have been for a lot of reasons. I'm not going to go further into it. This was about renewable energy and the whole thing around it. In the case of petroleum, unfortunately this area is also affected by a lot of root. Yes, there have been concession rounds. Yes, TFOs have been implemented. It's not that everything stops. That is not the opposition's criticism. The problem is predictability and completeness. When the 20th round was postponed by one year, when the TFO 2008 was exposed by three months without any signal, when a range of S.V., centre party and workers’ party people are all over the track, who in a way both take the position and opposition role in this policy area, it does not help to ensure the industry’s need for predictability. Then one can say as some in the Labour Party said during the debate in connection with the interpellation of the representative Meling, that everyone has to know that it is not the statements of the individual representatives that matter. It's okay, but then they should keep quiet and let the Council of State speak on behalf of the Government. Because the worst thing we can have is a situation where everyone out there means something, and no one really knows what's being adopted, and that's what it's been now. Fortunately, there is a kerosene message coming, and then I want the overall signal to be that oil and gas is something Norway is going to do for the next ten years. Yes, even SV is involved, and writes in the budget setting that search area and such things are important, but everyone knows that immediately SV is on this pulp, an attempt should be made to go in the opposite direction. There must be a signal from the Government that oil and gas belong to the future also in Norway. So I'm going to do the list a little longer than what I got time for in the interview debate, so that you can understand that it's not just what it's about. It's about land and access to new land, not just recycling the same old areas 15 years in a row. We need technology. Petroleum research needs to be strengthened and further developed, and the state needs to increase its share. It is about diversity and competition on the ground, both to stimulate small companies and to stimulate increased extraction from existing fields. A lot of this one will agree on in principle, but actually daring to take a tax debate associated with the small fields I don't think there are many who will join. So it's Petoro, which itself says they're following fewer fields carefully. That means they have less opportunity to be as good an actor as they want. This is not a criticism of Petoro, it's a criticism of the way we manage Petoro. Then it's predictability. We have to be able to say that the concession rounds are going to happen, for example. every two years. The allocation shall take place, for example: in January, with an application deadline in October. You know how to plan when the TFO comes to the fixed time every year, and not a little bit random. So I'm not going into the Lofoten area. However, I am disappointed that the government has given the signals they have given, but when one saw how the Workers' Party behaved in the biofuel case, and when one saw what kind of statement came from the workers' party in the inter-pelling debate, I am quite sure that the Workers' Party's oil people are going to outrun SV in this area without any special problems. Finally, climate: the policy that I have now outlined would like to be seen by some as a lot of oil and gas and a lot of power, but everyone knows that to cut CO2, oil and gas and renewable energy have to be done with – according to the IEA – in addition to CO2 clean-up and nuclear energy, among others. I am very pleased with the signals that came from the Council of State in the debate we had last week, and should therefore not go into it further now, just maintain the statements we then made. I'm glad that it has become a reality orientation from the Government. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and of those that we are together with others. [[Under Ketil Solvik-Olsen's posts the shelf fell on the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen's place in the hall on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e444	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. The President records that the Councils have begun to dismantle their seats in the Chamber. I ask that the biological material be preserved so that it can be reused or, if necessary, used for heating. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e452	We are several who have followed the Progress Party's development in climate policy, and he is a little broken. There have been many relapses, most recently the representative Sortevik's hope of failure in Copenhagen last week. But my impression is that there has been a very clear convergence between the Progress Party and the other parties on this issue. We're trying to formulate ourselves a little different and to perfect the question every time in the hope of getting a concrete and clear answer from the Progress Party, so this year I'm going to ask Solvik-Olsen a yes or no question. The question then is: Does the representative of Solvik-Olsen and the Progress Party believe that the Intergovernmental Panel’s conclusions on CO2 emissions and the 2-degree target are so important that they should be fundamental to Norwegian policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e462	Here, the representative Sande puts up with a premise that if you want to agree with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, you have to agree with the government's policy, and I don't see any connection there. The answer is yes to the serious response of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and to the fact that the government’s policy is the right one in this area. We see that ourselves just by going in and looking at what the government has done. The government has come up with a lot of offensive measures, but very rarely will they be met: CO2 cleaning in Mongstad, the gas power plant in Kårstø, the use of mobile gas power plants in Middle Norway, the biofuels business and renewable energy investment, where one thus has a lot of objectives, but is postponing most, some are liquidating some support schemes and introducing others, which means that predictability disappears. That's also my main message: when you don't have predictability for business, as politicians, we can have exactly the goals we want, but we can't achieve them, because those who are actually going to implement it in practice, Norwegian consumers and Norwegian investors, don't dare to make the decisions because they're afraid again to be tricked by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e472	I noted that the representative Solvik-Olsen described this budget, not as a policy, but as more or less bureaucracy. Then I would like to remind the representative of Solvik-Olsen that the Government in total – not just in the budgets of these two departments – will spend billions of dollars in 2010, and it is not in bureaucracy, but in politics, and for a better everyday life for people. I also registered that the representative Solvik-Olsen used approx. 20 seconds of his post to talk about climate. In the setting, the Progress Party supports the project at Mongstad while simultaneously, verbally, they have a reference to what would indicate the contrary conclusion. Maybe this is not so strange when we know that it is no more than about three years ago that one would oblige the government to start Mongstad without any strange CO2 cleaning. My question, then, is this: is the Progress Party fully committed and a hundred percent behind the Government's CO2 capture and storage project in Mongstad, or are they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e487	I think it's a strange question, because what the Progress Party and the Right proposed, namely, building Mongstad while it's possible, is exactly what the Government has done. The government has started and granted permission to build Mongstad, and there shall be cleaning from – yes, SV has required – day one. When one then got it through the first time in Stortinget, it might have been about cleaning from day 1501. Now it seems that there are two more years of delay, so now one likes to talk about cleaning from day 2001 – and beyond. So I can't take the criticism. From the Progress Party and the Right, this is about securing the energy supply in Hordaland, and it's about securing the energy supply if you're going to electrify the socket. Then a few new productions have to be in place. Hydropower was impossible to put in place with this government, gas power could be possible – at least too many in the Workers' Party. But we knew about these problems, and so we said, "Build now, clean when possible." When you look at reality as it turned out, it was the analysis of the Advance Party and the Right that turned out to be completely correct: it's being built now, and it's being cleaned when it's possible. I therefore do not understand the criticism. The progress batch is behind the test facility at Mongstad. I was the case rapporteur for that matter, and I would like to continue working to ensure that it is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e494	The fact that the Progress Party believes that increased oil emissions are also unproblematic in the future, we have discussed before. The second major sector with the largest emissions growth since 1990 is transport. During the debate now – during Solvik-Olsen’s contributions, in fact – I got a picture message on my cell phone from my father, who lives in Bergen. There's a picture of the wagon 201 on the city track when it's loaded by the ferry. It shall start running the test. That the Progress Party has been critical of that project, there is nothing to put under the chair. However, the Progress Party also rejects all other measures to reduce car traffic. They are against road pricing, which is something even business is asking for, and which has been a great success in Sweden. They will build new four-field motorways between all major cities, i.e. a policy for increasing emissions from the transport sector. I wonder if the representative of Solvik-Olsen can explain how the Progress Party will bring down emissions in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e505	I think SV should go to one of its hope providers in the policy, namely the environmental organisation ZERO, who says that they are not against the car, or the private car, but they are against the emissions from it. That's what must be the main thing here, and that SV would like to talk to his friends about. Because if SV believes it is possible to prohibit the sale of petrol and diesel cars in 2015, this problem will resolve itself over a 10- to 15-year period. The problem of queue will continue to be a good argument for them, but from a climate point of view, the investment in sustainable biofuels, in hybrid cars – not least plug-in hybrid – will mean that emissions from the transport sector will decrease. Then, of course, one must also see this in the context of the way a planning cities do, and how one cancels out public transport. But it's going to be wrong to say that if you're not too urban, you're against all the good solutions. I've seen the track in Bergen. And I've talked to taxi drivers in Bergen who just laugh that you think this is going to solve any problem. The city track doesn't necessarily go where your people live and where they work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e515	In the budget setting of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, there are two areas in particular where the Right wants to strengthen the budget beyond the Government's position. One area concerns Petoro, and the other relates to funding for research. Both of these areas are about maximising the resources we manage on a Norwegian base and the competence cluster of the petroleum industry and the supplier industry. Last Tuesday, we discussed here in Stortinget the situation of the oil supply industry on a Norwegian base. All the parties then indicated in their submissions that they understood the importance of the Norwegian petroleum industry for the Norwegian economy, both in terms of income to the country, investments, export value, jobs and competences. Furthermore, all parties acknowledged that the present situation is burdensome for many operators in the oil supply industry. Not least, our offshore shipyards have been hit hard, and no later than the weekend, there was a jam with warnings from the maritime cluster in Norway. This situation must be taken seriously. We know that many so-called mature projects that were expected to be launched during 2009 have been put on hold. The oil price fell sharply in the wake of the financial crisis, but it has now remained relatively high, at about $80. This level is relatively higher than the cost calculations of many of the projects. The IEA, the International Energy Agency, recently presented its forecast of world energy needs by 2030. This analysis makes it visible that due to the development of wealth globally, not least in the poor part of the world, the world’s energy needs will increase sharply by 2030. The fossil part of our energy use, according to the IEA, will continue to have an entirely central and necessary place as an energy source in the future – even within a scenario where the share of renewable energy is increasing, energy efficiency is being drastically reduced, and where a trajectory within the 2°C target of climate emissions is being followed. This scenario maintains the current level of production, and globally this implies that the various oil producing countries need to find new oil equivalent to four Saudi Arabia to cope with this share by 2030. This would also indicate that the expectation of a high and still rising oil price is shared by several. Nevertheless, projects are being put on hold for Norwegian pedestal. This has led to speculations as to whether oil companies are waiting for projects to push down costs from the supplier industry. Among other things, LO has pointed out this relationship on several occasions. No one can close their eyes because there has been a strong cost increase in this sector in recent years before the financial crisis. This has been driven by, among others. a very high oil price. The picture is nuanced. The cost growth has not been equally strong in all the different parts of the petroleum cluster. All parts of industry, its organisations and we politicians must strive for a certain degree of continuity and predictability to ensure that the most important thing, namely that industry skills are maintained, that new, demanding tasks are added, and that skills are developed further. In this picture, suspecting that projects are being put on hold, it is in particular Statoil who has been given a searchlight. After the merger with Hydro, Statoil is very dominant on the Norwegian base. The company is operator for about 80 pst. of today's production, having more than 1/3 of the remaining resources found on the Norwegian base, are together with the EEAS for a share of about 2/3 of the remaining resources found and are the operator for approx. 70 pst. of the remaining identified resources. This is a very dominant position. The right is concerned that there should be diversity and competition in any market, because we believe that this generates the best skills development, the best solutions and the most robust growth. This also applies in the petroleum industry. In the Right's alternative budget, we're strengthening Petoro by 50 million. kr – it represents almost 20 pst. increase in their budgets – because we see that this company has an important function – to ensure that no one abuses its position on Norwegian pedestal to the detriment of the whole and the interests of society. Petoro has also been involved in the public debate and pointed out that some projects that have been put on hold should be realised. Petoro, who manages the state's shares on the Norwegian base, has several licences and has a good overview and insight into the different fields and projects. Right wants to strengthen Petoro to enable these to do this important job with enhanced competence and resources. I have with amazement noticed that the Right is actually alone in proposing this increase, but fortunately we are together with both the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party to propose that the Government present its own case to the Bigton on the role and future of Petoros. I also hope that the government parties can join. Another item Right wants to strengthen is in the field of petroleum research. Here's a lot of challenges. The Norwegian petroleum industry is already among the world's most environmentally friendly, and the climate emissions from our production are already just 60 pst. of the global average of oil and gas extraction. Nevertheless, even more can and should be done in this field. Furthermore, we have a challenge to increase the efficiency of the socket. The oil director has calculated that if we manage to increase the extraction rate by just 1 pst, this will give a gross value of approx. NOK 270 billion. In that case, this would be enough to provide free kindergarten in Norway for three years. This comparison says a little bit about what sizes of numbers we're operating on the base. There are no other areas where society is left with more per cent. krone invested in research than what we do in the petroleum field. Therefore, the Right wants to allocate more money to petroleum-oriented research – to reach the level of ambition signaled by the Bondevik II government, about 600 million. kr annually in government appropriations during the period 2005-2009. This level is what the Right believes that the State contribution to petroleum research should be on. The right, therefore, strongly disagreed with the government's ceasefire in petroleum-oriented research throughout the previous enlargement period — which has also continued in the 2010 budget — although the government has fortunately corrected the cut-off in the current budget. As clearly the largest resource owner on the base through the DAE, the State must take its share of responsibility for research that can help us to get more out of the oil and gas reserves on the base. We believe that the government's passive attitude in this area is in stark contrast to the rest of the government's budgetary policy, where one spends a lot of oil money. Nor does the government seem to be able to take the big steps to gain control of the public expenditure growth in the future. The government seems to forget that the oil money comes from the extraction of oil and gas, hence the term ‘oil money’, and does not take the necessary investments to increase the country’s oil and gas revenues on the base in the future. These days, climate negotiations start in Copenhagen. Hardly any challenge is greater than combating the climate crisis. This fight must include, inter alia: is won by seeing climate and energy in the context. Most of the greenhouse gas emissions are due to the production and use of fossil energy. Energy solutions in the future must help us to achieve our emissions targets in combination with the availability of sufficient energy for the world. Today, the IEA expects it to be approx. 1.6 billion people without access to electricity. Unfortunately, the 2030 figures are not too uplifting, as the IEA expects that they will still be around. 1.3 billion people without access to electricity. Energy needs are therefore enormous in the future. Norway has great opportunities to continue to be an energy storm power and to strengthen our production also in the field of renewable energy. The EU has adopted demanding targets for 2020, including: 20 pst. their energy use shall come from renewable energy. The EU Renewables Directive is considered to be EEA-relevant, and we look forward to having a case on this for Stortinget. In these days, therefore, significant efforts are being made to develop new renewable energy in several EU countries. The industry and the environments of competence that have the ambition to position themselves for this future industry must be active; there are many trains of both investment and technology development in these days. At the same time, I regret that Norway today has a government and a government council that does not seem to be hasty on these issues. This is why we see Norwegian energy companies today investing in technology development in this future-oriented industry in our European neighbours, such as Sweden and the United Kingdom, rather than in Norway. An intentional agreement on green certificates finally came into place this autumn, and if everything goes right, we can expect a market-based system from 2012. Enova has strengthened its budgets and some research activities are ongoing. But where are the results – where are the results of TWh from new renewable energy that are not the results of decisions taken by the Bondevik II government, but are the results of this government's own policy? It's the same in energy policy, as in the rest of society, that there's the results that count, not how much money you've given. Norway has a high potential, among other things: within wind power. During the previous pouring period, only one windmill was set up, and there was the test windmill outside Karmøy. This is not good enough. Right have ambitions on behalf of our industry and our environments of competence. We want future energy production and environmental technology solutions to be solid for Norway. That is why the Right has also proposed the creation of an eco-innovation fund of its own, to which we allocate 5 billion kroner in this state budget. I address the proposals that the Right has promoted alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e549	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e554	The Right Party has, as I see it, repeatedly guaranteed to the Norwegian people that with them in the government offices there had already been an opening process in view of the petroleum activity in the Lofoten–Westerålen. In addition, they have accused us in the government offices of being retarded. I could imagine how one has intended to deal with this situation, when one knows that the Left has put an ultimatum in terms of the extraction of oil and gas in the Lofoten–Westerålen – also in view of the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. It could be a good idea to figure out who you were going to rule with to get a solution to these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e561	There's no doubt that that question can be demanding, no matter what the composition of a government has. There are important questions that are being discussed. But from the right we have given a clear and clear signal about and a yes to open these areas to oil and gas activity. If there is some demand from the industry today, there is just access to new and promising search areas. That's how we produce less and less oil. The oil supply industry needs more activity. We need to have big projects to build on our skills. We need to make new, big findings, and the most promising thing you know today, is just these areas the representative Stroem talked about. That's why the Right says a clear yes to opening these areas. We need to develop our skills further. We need the money for the challenges the state wants to face in the future. We need jobs – not least the northern part of the country needs these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e569	The moderate increase in oil consumption in the IEA forecasts in the so-called climate scenario is well suited to Meling’s interests, as the representative also points out in the submission. This forecast is based on a CO2 density of 450 ppm. This is not at all a guarantee against serious climate change. The scenario is also based on a much larger share of nuclear power in the world than today. So my question to the representative Meling is: does the Right support a large-scale expansion of nuclear power? If yes, why has the Right then not proposed such a bet in Norway, since it is a prerequisite for the rationale of Meling himself? And: Would the representative sit on a plane with the same odds to crash the 450 ppm scenario to be insufficient to meet the climate challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e577	First of all, I would like to say that the production of oil and gas on the Norwegian base is 60 pst. below the average globally. This means that the more oil and gas we produce from Norwegian base, the better it will be for the environment compared to emissions. On the question of nuclear power, I also record that there are changes in the view of nuclear power. Among other things, a new survey was published today in Denmark, which signals that people are much more positive in the light of climate challenges. What the right has said is that it's interesting to look at thorium as the raw material. Norway also has resources in that area to produce energy. As we know, thorium is a much more environmentally friendly raw material, possibly to produce nuclear power, so that's what we think is essentially interesting at least to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e584	The question of cable large 420 kV powerlines was a hot topic in the election campaign. Among other things in my state, the Right was very early on in its resistance to the trajectory of these lines, which helped to get a right-wing representative from Sogn and Fjordane. In the budget setting, the Right says that a desire to set up a professional selection in this area, to deliver its results, so that a case can be brought to the Grand Duchy in 2011. But there is no suggestion to put the current 420 kV line Ørskog-Fardal into cable, as was announced in the election campaign. The question then becomes: Does Right mean that it is important to realize this project – which is now in the final phase, which is now being processed during the year in the OED – or can you wait for a proposal to put the Ørskog-Fardal line into cable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e591	It is often the case in this and other issues, that by focusing on them and by making demands, there is a development of products. I registered that, among other things: The representative Solvik-Olsen from the pulpit today said that not much had happened in this area for many years. What the Right wants is to focus on the challenges that it is, among other things. In relation to aesthetics and the environment, the way we wire today. That's why we have, among other things, proposed to set up an expert selection to focus on alternative solutions. I think it's important that we help focus and make demands to ensure that there is a product development, and that in the future we can see better, more environmentally friendly and more aesthetically good solutions in terms of this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e601	The environmental impact of the State budget has never been greater than it is this year. It is not self-evident to point it out, but an important background to bring with it today, when the climate summit begins in Copenhagen. In such a setting, I think it's both rusty and right of the Right to wish the Council of State for Solheim happiness in Copenhagen, as Erna Solberg did last week. For, as the newspaper points out in an exemplary way today with its common double side, together with 56 other newspapers in the world, a solution to the climate crisis requires a completely different degree of interaction, consensus and common cross-political understanding than most countries and most political leaders can point to so far. A friend of mine said this weekend that the world's political leaders in saving one planet are all on another. It's both a gloom and a laconic remark, which, fortunately, over the next few weeks, can turn out not to vote. Because I believe in man's ability to solve seemingly insurmountable crises. This crisis appears to be abstract and distant for many of us. How many people experience the more practical consequences of our own emissions are also up to us. I mean, the red-green government is taking a good step with this state budget. We are strengthening the Base Fund for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Improvement. We'll bet on Enova. We're strengthening NVE. We set up the Climate and Pollution Directorate. We are stepping up and continuing the climate and forest initiative, and we are going to Copenhagen with the goal of adding 40 pst. cut from 1990 level by 2020 on the table to contribute to an ambitious agreement. Of course I should have seen even more. The representative Solvik-Olsen said I would talk a lot about the curse of oil in this post. I'm not going to do that. But of course I would have dreamed of e.g. to take high-speed trains to my home town Trondheim, instead of taking night trains or flights. It shall be examined during this period. I dream of a final climate agreement in which all people are given the same right to emit CO2. That is what makes climate policy a redistribution policy. It's true that it doesn't matter to the atmosphere where the release takes place, but to the prosperity of the world's population it plays a very important role. And a natural recognition of the climate problem is to establish the individual human right to discharge. It has the red-green government fixed in Soria Moria II, as the first government in Norway. It is a very central principle that is going to be very important for the long-term solutions to climate problems. So it's good that the opposition would like to see even more done. As children of the 1980s, some of my first impressions are events of a large or very small nature at the end of the 1980s. I remember two 1989 TV pictures. The first is the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the second is Erik Solheim, who is almost attacked by programme managers while promoting the environmental message in the election campaign. Just 20 years ago, there were not so many more than Erik Solheim who were concerned about this. Today, climate is the defining political issue of our time, and, if not for a long time, climate policy will define almost all other policy areas. Climate policy is both a security policy – due to the movements of people and the resource conflicts that will arise – a research policy, and not least a distribution policy. For our part, there is also business and innovation policy, and it is a very important part of our strategy to meet the climate challenges. We've been a powerful force on hydropower and on oil and gas. The hydropower lasts forever, and the oil ends. So tomorrow for our part is renewable energy, no matter how many other countries that had to bet on it. That is a good thing – not a negatively accentuated competition, which almost one would believe after listening to other articles in the debate here. The fact that the Progress Party and the Right are calling for even more effort from the Government simply shows that something very important has happened in Norwegian policy. Nine years ago, a government was killed because the bulk of the population was not interested in cleaning gas power plants. Now we all believe that the technology is not going to be effective fast enough. It promises very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e619	It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e622	SV's then Finance Minister proposed a tax on biodiesel, i.e. a car diesel tax on biodiesel. I want to ask the representative from SV about what he thinks is the fundamental difference of e.g. bioethanol and biodiesel in the charging policy, and reaches SV – e.g. represented by him — will follow the example of Kristin Halvorsen and will be in favour of a full levy on the use of bioethanol, biogas and electricity in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e627	That there is a different perception of biodiesel on both sides of the staging room demonstrated, for example. Dagfinn Højbräten in May last year, when he proposed to scrape the Norwegian biodiesel investment. Then I suspect the representative Astrup to know where I personally stand on the question of biodiesel. I have also stated that publicly, as that debate was taking place. But I think the Right's reaction and the Right's action after this is quite illustrative of where the Right's involvement in climate policy really lies. For the right, the opportunity has been used to say that the climate agreement has been broken and made with a long list, among other things. that the hydrogen car in Norway has not yet received free parking. We have to agree with that. We haven't yet got free parking for the 19 hydrogen cars in traffic in Norway. The most interesting thing about the Right reaction is that the Right now threatens to go away from some of the things they agreed to in the climate agreement. Erna Solberg went out last week and threatened no longer to be in charge of a running-time charge and no longer participate in increased fuel charges. So the right is saying that the climate issue is the most important thing in our time, but the important tools can be sacrificed to make points in the landfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e634	Several in the opposition are trying to get a grip on what kind of policy SV really stands for, because the difference in rhetoric and practice is very big. I noticed the representative Valen's line to Siri A. Meling. The Committee configuration, on page 9, reads: ‘Multiannual number’ – which are the red-green ones – ‘it is important that oil and gas search activities continue. There are still large oil and gas resources on the Norwegian continental shelf.’» On pages 18 and 19, it says: ‘The Committee points out that there are still major opportunities on Norwegian soil, and that one of the main challenges is to identify new resources, and to ensure the highest extraction rate possible. The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Christian People's Party, points out that the opening up of attractive exploration areas, research and committed cooperation projects are important elements for achieving these objectives.» Does this mean that SV now believes it is important to open up attractive search areas on Norwegian base? Or is this an example of double communication from SV, once again?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e653	Examples of double communication do not require Solvik-Olsen’s representative to go beyond his own group to find numerous examples of the climate debate. I will reassure the representative of Solvik-Olsen that SV has probably not turned to the view of the Lofoten and the Vesterål. But it is quite right that SV is concerned with a high degree of extraction in existing fields to ensure resource use there. It may be replaced by opening new areas. After all, it is not as the representative of Solvik-Olsen made it in the debate on Friday that SV is opposed to the TFO system. On the contrary, SV was a supporter of going in for this when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e661	Before the summer, the government provided St.meld. No 37 for 2008-2009, Management of the Norwegian Marine Environment. It is announced that one wishes to initiate an opening process for petroleum activities at Jan Mayen for the purpose of granting extraction permits. The first step is to look at this by screening to get an impact assessment for petroleum activities there. We in the Christian People's Party are skeptical of such an opening -- we're opponents of it, I guess it's more right to say -- because Jan Mayen is in a vulnerable area. The difficulty of operating meaningful oil protection in this area is much greater than in the unwanted expansion of the Lofoten and the Western Sea and beyond Finnmark. Is this a view shared by the representative Valen? Or to use his own terminology: is this a dream shared by the representative Valen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e670	I share Mr. Hemdal's concerns about extraction at Jan Mayen, and we are also in line with the question of oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Vestral. I expect the representative to be fully aware of that. Then I think it is gratifying that – on the one hand – the Christian People's Party in opposition is a very driving force in climate policy. There have been some events since the Christian People's Party was last in government, considering what the Christian People's Party then carried out by climate action, which was little, and considering what the Christian People's Party then carried out by measures that would lead to large, new emissions in Norway, of which there were several. On the other hand, I think it is interesting that the Christian People's Party – perhaps one of the parties with which we initially agree – chooses to attack SV for our petroleum policy on the day the climate negotiations begin in Copenhagen. Perhaps Hemdal should rather go to his opposition friends in the Right and the Advance Party to discuss the contradictions in oil policy – where I suspect the real contradictions are much greater. But such allies have therefore chosen the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e677	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e680	It's a challenge to take care of the energy and environmental budget and the Christian People's Party's alternative budget in five minutes, but I'll try. I hope for a longer speaking time after the next choice. In the Christian People's Party's alternative budget, we have chosen to increase the investment in renewable energy and electricity saving in households. We are increasing the efforts of the Base Fund for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency improvement by DKK 15 billion and increasing the direct transfer to the Energy Fund by 75 million. kr. The Christian People's Party also proposes to increase the commitment to forest protection, cultural memory protection, outdoor life, wild breeds, stock monitoring of predators and support for environmental organisations. On the tax side, the Christian People's Party proposes a further shift from taxes on value added tax to taxes on environmentally harmful measures. We increase the taxes on fuel, fuel oil and plastic bags and use the increased revenue to remove the combustion charge, maintain the biodiesel tax exemption and introduce a premium of NOK 30000 for the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. The Christian People's Party believes that the sitting government has abused a historic opportunity to start the conversion of Norwegian society in a more climate-friendly direction. Never before has the focus on the climate challenge been stronger. Never before has the population been more motivated for change. Nevertheless, emissions continue to increase. The 2010 government budget is a warning of continued increases in emissions in the coming years. In the State budget, the government has also managed to destroy the motivation of ordinary people for climate-friendly behaviour by imposing a tax on biodiesel. Biodiesel is now to be more expensive on the pump than normal fossil diesel. Clearly, it will cost something to act environmentally friendly in Norway. In red-green Norway, the climate and environment struggle shall be reserved for idealists and socialists. I'm disappointed in this. I am also surprised at how easily the government breaks its own promises of cleaning up the gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad. In violation of Soria Moria I’s promises to clean Kårstø by 2009, the clean-up project is today suspended indefinitely. SV’s major environmental victories from 2005 have become a crushing loss in 2009. In the case of Mongstad, the Minister of Oil and Energy continues to guarantee the Government's timetable for cleaning by 2014, although more and more professionals believe full-scale cleaning can be in place at the earliest in 2016. I understand that the CO2 cleaning plant is not a shelf product. I understand that it is difficult to post-install CO2 cleaning at an existing power plant. But this was knowledge we also had in 2005. The gas power plant in Mongstad has been built after the red-greens went into government in 2005. The power plant operates for these days and starts fully in 2010. Then Norway's emissions will increase by a new 2 pst., despite what the representative Sund said to me in his reply. Today, as in the past, the government parties disapprove of all criticisms by pointing out that they are more than the last government – the Bondevik II government. Well, until that's saying that a sausage costs more today than it did five years ago. Increased use of money in crowns in different sectors is not synonymous with investment. The Minister for the Environment shall be commended for a real increase in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget in recent years, also relative to other departments. A job has been done in relation to classical nature protection and natural diversity that the minister may be familiar with. A lot of money is also spent on CO2 capture and storage, even if it is not in line with the promise of lunar landing and the deadlines set. The government's rhetoric about renewable energy investment through Enova does not impress anyone, either in the political environment or in the energy industry. Everyone knows that there has been a break in renewable energy since 2005. The scrapping of the wind energy target in the State budget confirms what we have all known – that there has been no investment in renewable energy in recent years. I want to end by saying that I sympathise with the SV and the Senter party, given what they've been struggling with internally in the government for the last time. This autumn we have been shown that the Workers' Party is a real climate and environmental hosting in Norwegian politics. When key environmental values are set against national incomes, trade unions, economic growth or state ownership, the Workers' Party consistently eliminates the environment. But we in the Christian People's Party shall continue to press on from outside the Government in order for the SV, and for the Center Party, to have a greater impact on climate and environmental policies as long as this government sits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e708	Access to cord shifts is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e711	I also registered the representative Heimdal's huge shooting at the Workers' Party. She is disappointed in the budget and claims that the government has abused a chance of climate-friendly direction. But there's a difference between talking and acting. This government is acting. We must not allow a debate on the biodiesel tax to overshadow the fact that this is the environmental effort of time in a Norwegian state budget. That's an increase of 17 pst. That's $18 billion. We're going to spend $3.5 billion on CCS. The renewables fund will be increased, and the NVE will be strengthened. In addition, we have now made a preliminary agreement with Sweden on green certificates. Windmills are open, and the last one is that we've got a salt power plant. Does the representative, Mr Heimdal, not see that this government is acting and that it is simply a change of pace in climate policy in this country, in relation to the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e720	It is a time change with the introduction of a biodiesel tax that makes it more expensive to fill biodiesel on the tank from 1 January 2010 than it is today when I fill my tank. This is a change of pace compared to the fact that from 1 January 2010 we have no wind energy target. When the Bondevik government went off in 2005, we were halfway to the 3 TWh target. Yes, it's a change of pace, but in the very opposite direction. Green certificates that were filed in February 2006 may be in place on 1 January 2012. This cannot be called a change of pace by the representative Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e725	The President makes use of the opportunity to ask whether the representative, Mr Hemdal, does not have a proposal to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e728	I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e733	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e736	The representative suggested that the increase in environmental performance of the red-green government in the previous year's government budget and in the year's government budget is to a large extent only a rise in prices and an increase in crown value. Does the Christian People's Party really believe that there is no real increase in efforts in the environment and climate since the Christian People's Party ruled? My other question to the Christian People's Party is whether the representative Hemdal really believes that our visions and goals of cutting 40 pst. by 2020 is no greater ambition than when the Christian People's Party together with the Left travelled to Kyoto and negotiated the Norwegian emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e744	Let's do the 40 pst. goal first. It says that if we get an ambitious climate agreement in Copenhagen, which starts today, we will cut 40 pst. When we heard the Environment Minister here in the Chamber last Friday and when we heard him at the NRKs here and now, he spoke as much about a 30 pst. goal, especially on here and now. Then it's not ambitious. I believe that the representative Valen and I agree that we should take this away if-the, and not let us influence what's happening in Copenhagen, but say that we're going in front and cutting 40 pst., no matter what, to show the way – because it's our oil revenues that have made us rich. At least I believe that we also have a great job and a great responsibility to clean up these emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e751	Like the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, in a comment in a previous post, I am also pleased with the increasingly clear environmental profile of the Christian People's Party in opposition, and one is in charge of the government party in the configuration of many good environmental actions. One goes even further on the environment, it must be allowed to say, in some comments. Equally full, there is no new signal when it comes to overseeing the political choices of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party still swears that one has the most to focus on cooperation towards the right in Norwegian politics. I have two questions: is this correctly understood? I also thought to ask the representative Hemdal what it is in Right's environmental policy in this setting that makes Hemdal so convinced that it is right politics, including for the Christian People's Party, to get an impact on in cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e758	I can then remind the representative Sande that the Bondevik I administration went off on an environmental issue in 2000. There is no other government that has done it before, nor later, although I encouraged Sande and SV many times in the last four years that maybe you should look at what we did that day in 2000 and learn some lessons from it. If we take the climate agreement – which is an important compromise, we're going to spend the big money on the important things – it's also to say that the Christian People's Party was able to move the government in the right direction. We were able to get concrete measures into a big message that was little concrete when it came to the house. So the Christian People's Party is going in the right direction, and we're going out of government when it's not green enough. This is the Christian People's Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e768	Although the Left in this four-year period failed to participate in the comitology process of the position of the Energy and Environment Committee, on behalf of the Left I would nevertheless like to say a few words about environmental policy. The natural environment is our most important basis of life, and it is a fundamental liberal view of value to create an ecologically equal starting point for all generations. Taking care of nature – soil, air, water and biodiversity – is essential to our existence and has value in itself. The left is a non-polluted society, where resources are managed for the benefit of us now living, and for future generations. The left will make Norway an environmental policy priority country. We need to develop environmental technologies and find solutions that others can use. Such a conversion is demanding, but it offers new opportunities. In a world where environmental problems become more apparent, environmental businesses will be the winners of tomorrow. The main general environmental instrument Left will apply is the transition from tax on labour to tax on environmentally harmful behaviour. Norway needs to develop and implement new climate technologies and change its lifestyle so that greenhouse gas emissions are significantly reduced, while maintaining the level of welfare. Norway must go from being a fossil nation to becoming a renewable nation, from fossil industry to renewable and forward-looking industries. Therefore, the total extraction of oil and gas should not be increased but reduced over time. The left will ensure, through strong commitment to renewable energy, that Norway maintains its position as an energy nation. The objective of the left is a non-emissionary transport sector. This cannot be achieved by Norwegian efforts alone, but Norway needs to develop a clear plan for reducing emissions from year to year. Therefore, the Left will step up the deployment of rail, other public transport and zero-emission vehicles. The left will bet on biofuels, electricity and hydrogen as energy carriers in the transport sector. Left will expand energy and cost-effective alternatives to passenger transport: rail, public transport, bicycle and pedestrian routes. The left will facilitate maximum collective participation in the road network, good accessibility in those parts of the country where the road is the only alternative, and reduce transport needs through good urban and urban planning. This is precisely why targeted investment in rail and public transport to over 1 billion kroner is one of the main priorities of the Left in our alternative state budget for 2010. Overall, the 2010 proposal for an alternative state budget for the Left involves a total book-keeping of approximately DKK 1.8 billion on environmental and climate-friendly solutions and an increase in the capital transfer to the Renewable Energy Base Fund and an increase of DKK 5 billion on efficiency. Finally, the left has given priority to the environment in this state budget, as we have done for many years, and as we will in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e786	First, I want to give credit to the Left for a sincere and real environmental exposure that we know Left has, and that the Center Party shares. So to the same question that the representative Hemdal got, that is, to override the choice of Norwegian policies, when we know that environmental and energy issues are as central as they are: what is it in the Right and the Advance Party – but above all the Right – its environmental policy that makes the representative Tenden convinced that cooperation with the right is the right way to go for the Left in environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e793	I can in no way say that the red-green government has impressed me in terms of environmental policy – in no way. I think the representative of the Christian People's Party answered very well. We in Bondevik II dealt with an environmental issue. There should simply be some of the batches here in this room if they were serious about biofuels. But you just let it scour, and then we'll see at the next crossroads. We in the Left are committed – and we are absolutely sure – to supporting many of the good proposals we have in our alternative budget. In any case, it is not the case that the Centre Party has been offensive in terms of rail and collective action in the major cities. You're going to fail. We have major challenges in Oslo and Akershus in collective action. You're going down pretty hard. I look forward to better cooperation with the representative also in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e800	The cord shift is over. The President must be allowed to note that speaking about each other as ‘they’ is hardly appropriate in this matter. All speech should be addressed to the President, even if the dialogue takes place on the floor in front of us here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e805	The representative Borghild Tenden said she was not impressed by the red-green government. One that was once impressed by the red-green government was Lars Sponheim, and that was when we presented our draft budget on the environment a year ago. He was obviously – not mute, for it will be Lars Sponheim rarely – but full of admiration for what we put forward. What we're going to do now is we're going to present a budget that has 10 pst. increase at the top of the budget that Lars Sponheim was very impressed with. What it shows, as this is a budget debate, is the fundamental change that has taken place with the red-green government. After many years of standstill in the environmental budget, it is now going up sharply. Here we also see a fundamental difference between the Right and the Advance Party, which will drastically cut down on environmental management in its budgets, and the red-green. I hope and believe that both the Left and the Christian People's Party agree with us, who will strengthen environmental management, and not with the Right and Advance Party. Let's remember that cutting down on environmental management is strategic and weakens the environmental interests of Norwegian society. In all the intersections that environmental interests have, both against oil and energy, against agriculture, against fishing, against industry, against transport and against all the other legitimate interests of Norwegian society, but where you always need strong environmental management that represents the environmental interests of the many dragonfights, the Right and the Advance Party will fundamentally cut down. There will be a strategic setback for Norwegian environmental protection if they succeed. Then I will not dwell on the past and our good budget, but on the future and what are the major environmental challenges in 2010. As I see it, bringing together the two biggest environmental issues we have both internationally and in Norway, namely the climate challenge and taking care of the natural diversity. These two are closely interlocked. Taking care of robust ecosystems in agriculture and in nature is one of the best ways to protect us from climate change. On the other hand, drastic climate change will be a major threat to natural diversity. 2010 is the year of international natural diversity. There's a big party conference about the natural diversity in Nagoya in Japan next year. If it doesn't get as much attention as Copenhagen, it's going to be a big point to bring this together. This year, the government presented the Natural Diversity Act, and received support for it in the Stortinget. 575 million. of the funds provided in this budget are different measures to strengthen the follow-up to wild game, wild game, wild game, mountain reefs and the many endangered and vulnerable species to which the Nature Diversity Act intends to provide protection. The objective of the Nature Diversity Act is to protect species and habitats where people live and live, and where it is a daily gi- and ta in relation to other societal interests. It's a big step forward, but of course it has to be followed up with money if it's to be put into life. The Planning and Building Act also provides significantly better grounds for protecting the main habitats of species, and it is a major step forward in this way. In 2010, we plan to complete – more or less, there will perhaps be a few exceptions – the National Park Plan, which goes back to the 1990s, which was broken for a long time, until the Right made an effort by being taken up again by Børge Burnde, and which is now being completed by the Red-Green Government with considerable force. We hope it will be completed in 2010. Then we will have both the Nature Diversity Act as a tool to protect species and habitats near where people live, and the National Park Plan, where 15 pst. Norway is protected, often away from dense settlements. The protection of the wild species is one of the most important areas for the conservation of species in Norway. The villa tribe now seems to be about 1/3 of what it was in the 1980s. We don't have a simple recipe to protect the wild axis, it's exposed to many different influences that are negative. There may be difficulties in accessing food in the sea. Marine acidification and acidification in rivers can be factors. Lace is a factor. The same thing is escape, and thus genetic degeneration, and various diseases. That's the sum of different influences that make the wild axis drop. We have to look at the total sum and see what we can do with it. Last week I was handed over new proposals for the local management plan for the Tanava stretch. It's a tiny little tool in that way. It's the most important salmon watercourse in the world, some say, so it's not insignificant what's happening in Tana. One has a unanimous attitude, which will come to Stortinget in 2010, to add up to local government in Tana. I must also mention outdoor life and the balance between outdoor life and nature protection in Oslomarka as one of the challenges we face in 2010. Chemicals are another challenge. Besides species diversity and climate, it is the major global climate challenge. There are proposals for more money in this budget to strengthen the follow-up to EU chemicals legislation, REACH, which is, of course, the European standard system in that area. Let me also mention cultural memory protection, which has been strengthened over the last few years. We have now received a new one, and very actively in the debate, rickshaws, Jørn Holme. I just want to say that I have given him the clear marshy earth that it is important that the rickshaw is visible in the public debate. It contributes to more debate in this area. The same marshall has been given to the Directorate of Nature Management and State Pollution Control. I just want to remind the Storting about this because sometimes critical questions come to what these say. But if you can't bear to say something that a single person sometimes disagrees with, you won't have active supervision and bodies either. I believe that we are very well served that we are now getting a rickshaw that is visible in the debate and raising the whole field. The same applies to the other areas that I mentioned. Finally, let me make a little visit to the Christian People's Party, which I consider to be a very close ally in climate policy and as one of the parties closest to the government parties – actually a natural cooperation party for us on all climate policy issues. But they act as if the climate problems in Norway started with the red-green government. There's never anyone who hears me say anything negative about the Bondevik government other than when this idea comes up that all the sins started with the red-green. Almost all the large emissions that Norway is struggling with came before the red-green government. Over many, many years, we have pushed these problems ahead of us. We have tackled the major climate challenges with considerable force. But the big challenge comes in 2010, when climate change comes. At that time, the Storting will be presented with what it is possible to do — in the transport sector, in the oil industry and in the energy sector — what it is possible to do in agriculture, what it is possible to do in the rest of the industry, what it is possible for individuals to do in their private homes. The sum of all this will come to a broad public debate. Hopefully this will be the big climate debate in 2010. The Christian People's Party is warmly welcome as an ally and joins in that debate, but we get a pointless debate if it's based on the fact that these are simple questions that should have been fixed in a coward. This requires a fundamental change in the functioning of the entire economy and, in particular, requires a technological revolution. Erna Solberg pointed it out very well in the debate just before the weekend. It requires a technological revolution that no one can invent from one day to the next. It must be serious. If we don't end up jumping up and down in a way that doesn't make sense. Let me quote from an article that Dagfinn Højbråten wrote a year ago: ‘I challenge Jens Stoltenberg to increase food aid, drop biofuel requirements and increase agricultural aid’. This writes Dagfinn Højbråten in an article in Dagbladet. If you go further into the post, it says that ‘Norway should go ahead and add the requirement for blending biofuels into ice fuel’. It is gratifying that the Prime Minister did not listen to the council from Dagfinn Høybråten to drop all the bets on biofuels. But we get a totally hopeless political debate if one day, with a great international attention to a food crisis, you say you have to drop biofuels, and it's wrong that the government doesn't drop it. Then it goes six months, and then it focuses on biofuels being a good thing for the environment, but then it's wrong that the government isn't doing enough in that area. This way of conducting political debate hampers the understanding of the great challenges we face. So I just want to encourage that we now look at how the Christian People's Party and the Left can cooperate with the Government on all the environmental policy issues on which we really agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e859	In the context of the Copenhagen climate summit, we now see that the level of ambition and expectations for a binding agreement have been abandoned, and that an attempt should be made to make the best of climate change. Nevertheless, we see that one sends a Norwegian delegation to nearly 150 people, while England, for example, sends 55 people. The question must be whether this reflects the Norwegian level of ambition towards the population. Or what is the reason why a sender such a massive delegation? In addition, the delegation in such a time need that a good thing to say that using trains is not applicable. Has SV and the Minister for the Environment lost any threat to the train, or is it just the people who have to act environmentally friendly and take the train? Does the Minister for the Environment believe that SV's mantra about the lightning train around the country is resilient with such a passive hold on the train?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e868	It's not even 150 in the official delegation that's going to Copenhagen. Fortunately, there are many, many more. I think all the bishops of the country are going to Copenhagen. It's not inside this number. A series of business leaders, from Statkraft, from Statoil and from a series of other Norwegian companies are going to Copenhagen. It's not inside that number either. Nature and Youth mobilise 100 people in addition to this. It is not inside this number either, and I believe the future in our hands and others have a boat with approx. 1,500 people. So it's a huge meeting place for an incredible number of people, and I think this is very good. I encourage everyone to go down there. The reason why we have a lot more in the official delegation than the United Kingdom is the very simple fact that we in Norway have the tradition of a much more open line. We even have the Progress Party inside the Norwegian official delegation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e877	There is a lot about what Erik Solheim has begun to say now, which delights me as FrPs, because a lot around the technology revolution – that it will take time, that it cannot be adopted overnight, that one should put in place measures where one gets the most effect, etc. – the Progress Party has argued for too long, and we have had a bit of a hard time because we have not been offensive enough. I take it as a reality orientation. What I would like to hear in this connection from the Council of State is: in the election campaign and in the past, the Minister for the Environment and I have discussed whether it was possible to ban the sale of pure petrol and diesel cars from 2015, in the sense that they only use petrol or diesel. Based on the articles of the Council of State, I now perceive that we must not have such deadlines, etc. Because it's a little unrealistic to think that this is happening overnight -- and physically, that's almost what we're talking about. Does the Council of State agree that one of the Governments will ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars from 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e884	Let me first say that there are areas in the policy where the Progress Party has said things and got it right, but there are certainly no areas in the policy that are as remote from them as climate policy. So this is a party that just a couple of decades ago thought that this was something I personally and SV had found out to win voters. I have a stack of posts that Carl I. Hagen has held up over time, and where he has sown doubts about the climate turmoil. It's only a few years since George Bush should have received the peace prize, despite the fact that he was the greatest climate negator in the world. So to claim that the Progress Party has got everyone else running after it, is the most meaningless of all claims in this area. With regard to climate technologies, we share many of the ideas that climate technologies are fundamental. But climate technology, unlike almost all other technologies, comes only through public regulation and through public incentives. If the young people of the Progress Party and the SV buy iPod, no public regulation is needed to produce that technology, but all history of environmental technology over many decades shows that there is public regulation of the market and pilot projects at the intersection of public and private driving the new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e891	Last week, Janne Sollie, Director of the Directorate for Nature Management, said that we are ‘in the process of managing the downfall of the wilderness axis’ and that it is ‘going wrong all the way’. Sollie also provided for the massive government-driven depopulation of farmed salmon and the set-aside of sites in areas where the salmon has become resistant. In this context, the Council of State stated that he shared Sollie’s description of the situation of the Norwegian wild species and that measures were needed to ensure the wild species. Today he also said to the pulpit that we have to see what we can do with it. The question then arises to the Council of State: What concrete action will he take, and will they include the official slaughter of farmed salmon and the abandonment of premises?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e898	First of all, I am very pleased that Astrup does not criticize Janne Sollie for having gone out with the notice she has given in this matter. Because I so often get criticism from the Right-Representative every time Janne Sollie had to feel something that a Right-Representative disagrees with, it is very positive that it is not criticised. I share her great concern for the wild. I think that's actually shared by a full hall here. The population is now down to one third of what it was in the 1980s. Breeding is a major and very important industry in Norway. There's no simple recipe for saving the wild salmon. Let me mention something. I heard earlier today that 40 million. kr is now granted for research on salmonnus. It is an important single measure. I mentioned the Tana watercourse here. Next year, we're treating the Wefsna watercourse, which we got a majority to protect, and it helps in that way. It's a third measure. Many other measures can be mentioned, but these are, of course, in a border area up to other departments, and we need to get back to the Stortinge in terms of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e905	I am pleased with the visit that the Council of State made to the Christian People's Party. We have a government council looking forward. We like that. But then it is that the past and the future are connected. The food crisis in 2008 was the cause of what the Council of State also quoted, that we should be observant to focus on the ethical challenges related to food soils, and that food soils were not used in the production of biofuels. I think I remember that the Minister for the Environment was also out with some similar statements. I want to ask three specific questions. On 3 December 2008, there was a meeting of the Council of State office on climate change and on the follow-up of biofuels. Can the Council confirm that this meeting has taken place? Can the Council of State say what we agreed on at this meeting, what the Council of State, at least according to an NTB notification, called a happy day for those who were concerned with biofuels? Has the Council of State briefed its colleagues in the Government on this meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e914	Let me confirm that a meeting all know has taken place – we were there – of course took place, and of course I have briefed the government colleagues on that meeting. As for that question in the middle, to explain in detail to that meeting, I think that in that case I'll do it in a proper and proper way, so that we don't get any inaccuracies in it. Then I want to come back to what I tried to bring up here on the pulpit. A nuanced debate on biofuels is very important, I've been trying to lead for years. Some biofuels are good and should be presented – and should enter the market. Some biofuels have a zero effect, e.g. if so many inputs, such as fertilizers and irrigation plants, are used that it goes into zero, and some biofuels are frighteningly negative to the environment. Cut the rainforest to grow biofuels, it takes between 150 and 200 years before it gives a positive climate effect. I have raised this nuanced debate and I think we need to have it. However, it is quite different from one day to think that biofuels have to be cut out and removed from the market – as Dagfinn Højbräten says in this interview – and then the next day to criticize the Government for the very opposite. You can't rule on the basis of jumping from one ditch to another, but you can rule on the basis of nuanced statements over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e923	First the statement about Lars Sponheim and that he was impressed by the red-green government. Yes, it was the previous budget, for 2009, and after that time, the Council of State must agree, much has gone wrong. I think about biodiesel, CO2 management, wind turbines, public transport, etc. Cut in emissions of 40 pst. has been a topic here today. A lot now suggests that it will not work as you had hoped, that the big countries will also cut 40 pst. Then is my question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State take the initiative that the Government will nevertheless strengthen Norway's climate objectives, regardless of the results in Copenhagen, and that the vast majority of things take place domestically, and not in the case of out-of-quota purchases, as is so far the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e933	First, there is a settlement between the Left Party and the Government that has determined how much is going to be abroad and how much is going to be in Norway. It says it has to be about 20 pst. of the 30 pst. at home, and 10 pst. out. We agree on that, and that is the basis of my policy. When we have a climate deal, I'm going to base it on what we're going to do. In the case of the 40 pst. as the red-green one-sided have advertised, and which is not part of the climate agreement, it is an input to the negotiations in Copenhagen. I'll try to move them in the right direction. But one cannot then waive negotiating opportunities by saying precisely in advance how it should work, but it is an important tool in the negotiation process. Finally, none of us expect to get a dice throw six of the opposition in every single question, but I just want to point out that Lars Sponheim was very pleased that we had broken the negative trend with bad budgets. On top of the good budget we had a year ago, we've now added 10 pst. further increase, so here we have at least fundamentally reversed development from how it was, for example. under the Bondevik II Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e942	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e946	The climate perspective is, of course, also central in today's debate. In Friday's debate, on the Norwegian positions before the Copenhagen climate summit, there was broad support for the Government's positions, and I think we can be proud of Norway's positions in these negotiations. I am also proud of our government's efforts in climate policy, and I believe we have taken many important steps. I want to point out someone. Carbon capture and storage has an enormous potential in the work of reducing emissions. It's talking about that between 10 and 15 pst. emissions can be cut using this type of technology. Worldwide, we have 6 000 to 7 000 large point emissions related to industrial and energy production that are relevant to carbon capture. Through the Mongstad project, Norway has taken stock of the development of large-scale capture and storage of CO2. This project is the result of a political choice. We have experience in the capture and storage of CO2 on Sleipner. We had a clear candidate for large-scale cleaning in Mongstad, and we had the political will to invest heavily in the development of technology when this was done. And we'll see that there are others here who have followed when you see what's going on. It is gratifying to see that the project now has broad political support and that it is a broad political majority in Norway that sees the need for this initiative. But the project is big, and it's complicated and requires strict management. The Party points to the need for quality assurance and research on the safe storage of CO2. This is no one who disagrees, and it's the very theme for the work on CO2 storage. We know that in the international debate on CO2 capture and storage, this issue is very central. We have experience from Sleipner and knowledge from 40 years of oil and gas production that is now used to find good solutions. I also want to point to deforestation. Work to prevent deforestation is another field in which Norway is lagging behind. In 2007, Stoltenberg launched initiatives to tackle greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. Nearly one fifth of global emissions are from deforestation, and it is very important that we get a substantial commitment to reducing deforestation. Norway will spend up to NOK 3 billion in this area, and in the 2010 budget, it is allocated NOK 2.1 billion. But also in this field the risk of failure is present. We're talking about using huge sums in countries where corruption is a problem, where democratic processes are often deficient, and where we have 1.6 billion people living in the periphery of the forests we want to protect, and we need to safeguard the rights and livelihoods of these people. These have lived in the pact with nature, used the forest for all the years of their life, and we must ensure that they still have the right to do so. My point is that the risk of failure, of postponement and of technical complications, for example. the fear of scandals associated with forest projects must not frighten us from betting, whether in the case of carbon capture and storage, or in the case of deforestation. What we know with the greatest certainty is that the negative consequences of man-made warming are dramatic. We know that there is an urgent need for effective action. And we know that our time is the time for action. It means all the parties that are part of the climate agreement, plus eventually, I have understood, the representative of Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party, if I have interpreted his statements correctly here today, that the United Nations Climate Panel must now be taken seriously, I also have to say when Solvik-Olsen complained that three different parties – the government parties – have different starting points for the forthcoming debate on oil drilling in Lofoten and said that in this way the government parties had taken care of the entire policy area, that I am more concerned that one party, the largest opposition party, represented by Solvik-Olsen, takes into account the whole spectrum alone in the view of climate problems. Solvik-Olsen supports and trusts the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The Progress Party action programme undermines the climate panel when you say: ‘The climate policy, for which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a precursor, remains on an incomplete scientific basis.’ The representative of Arne Sortevik from Hordaland had a post in Bergensavisen last Saturday where he wrote that there is cause for concern, not ‘for man-made climate change, but for policy-making consequences of a misguided decision-making basis’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e990	In connection with this year's budget, see Progress Party and Right, etc. present the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the submission by the Government of a monitoring report on the implementation of the control of Gyrodactylus salaris as a threat to Norwegian wildstocks. Such a plan should include both methodological selection, budgetary implications and priority for the area of infection.’;» The background is that wildstocks are now believed to be held in several ways. in the case of salmontus blooming in the sea and Gyrodactylus salaris in the rivers. The special thing about the Gyrodactylus problem is that he's been introduced into our rivers by state actors. It gives the state a moral responsibility to remove it as quickly as possible. Nevertheless, the Government chooses to reduce the fishing measures in its budget. It is irresponsible, especially the foundation, that the fish fees have fallen. It was never meant that these fees would be responsible for the suppression of the Gyrodactylus salaris problem? What can be seen in this case is that it has taken too much time to put in place measures that show good results and remove the problem. This handle cannot be associated with the blooming of salmonnus, which today shows clear signs. If you do not get control of this, spring's smolt production, which comes from rivers, will have little or no chance of survival. We can't accept that. For the Progress Party, it is totally out of the question to sacrifice the wild stocks in our rivers for the farming industry. It must be possible to achieve a coexistence that benefits all parties, without one party having to give up. The increase in biomass in the 5 pst breeding industry, to which the Progress Party has also joined, generates large revenues for the country. It would be incomprehensible for many if not significant parts of this income were used for research and measures to mitigate and eliminate the co-existence problems of both industries today and will continue to exist. So some words about concession limits in protected watercourses. I note that the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee, Erling Sande, disagrees with his own government when it comes to the limit of what can be allowed in protected watercourses, and may think of increasing it from 1 to 3 MW. He is in line with his own in the Bondelage: «Schematic boundaries are not a good guiding tool for the preservation of natural values,» says the Farmer's Terje Engvik. This is a broad consensus in several circuits. Does this appointment from the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee mean that he will work actively to change this limit in protected watercourses? There are many who have made this distinction and agree that it should be expanded. Others say that the biggest challenge and an increasing problem is the slow process to put in place small power resources. Reasons Torbjørn Thue i Gaular says the following: ‘9 years after the start of the process, we are now awaiting the decision on the concession request’. Nine years! This shows that the Central Party, which is committed to being district spokespersons, is unable to improve the situation in order to obtain alternative income for the districts, is contrary to their stated objectives, and the relocation is increasing. After more than four years in government, we see that the challenges for districts are increasing, and that bureaucracy is the biggest. As an example of this, without being confined to the districts, Enova’s extra 1 200 - million pledge is made. kr in the context of a crisis package in January, where only one of the 1 200 million. kr has been used. This shows that the ability to turn around at a speed is absent – unfortunately. The Progress Party would also like to see a change in predatory policy. We believe that the high level of conflict comes from the fact that there is no match between the views of politicians and ordinary people on the need for a large number of predators in Norwegian nature. The solution to this is not to waste more money on predator management, but to reduce stockpiles and give local politicians more direct influence on the management of Norwegian predatory policies and to create a more liberal code of harm and emergency. The emergency trap for attacking a dog also wants the Advance Party to be in place, together with the Right and Christian People's Party. So a few words about environmental taxes and practices when they apply to them. The party of progress suggests a speculative use of so-called environmental taxes weakens the trustworthiness of environmental work when revenue ends up without objectives other than state funds. An example of this is the biodiesel tax. Another is the combustion charge, which leads to extensive exports of waste to combustion plants in Sweden. The framework of special taxes means that our combustion plants are unable to compete at price, and thus do not benefit from free capacity to go to the district heating network. Significant investments have been made with support from Enova, but due to low capacity utilisation, many of these facilities are now unwound. The Progress Party believes that it must be an objective to harmonise the tax regime with our neighbouring countries, so that unpretentious and environmentally demanding solutions are lost, as the environmental tax on the transport of large amounts of waste over long distances is not appropriate for the environment. Therefore, the Advance Party proposes to remove this fiscal charge. Finally, we are some of them saying that environmental management is important. I note that the Minister for the Environment is willing to describe, for example, the Norwegian delegation to Copenhagen, but he is not as busy describing whether the delegation travels environmentally friendly as they could have done. When such a large delegation travels to Copenhagen and chooses to fly in front of e.g. Taking the train is not the actions in line with the challenge that our country and the world are being claimed to face. It weakens the credibility of our environmental work. I thought we'd stay too good for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1027	Norway travels to the international climate negotiations in Copenhagen with great ambitions. That's good. If the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is right, man-made climate change will threaten the lives and livelihoods of millions of people. Dry, flood and storm will be able to destroy crops and exacerbate the living conditions of those people who already need our common help most, and threaten animal species and ecosystems that today form an important part of Earth's ecology. Therefore, the Right is satisfied with the Government's ambitions in the international climate negotiations. But we're not as impressed by the efforts at home. The government has committed itself to cutting 30 pst. of Norway’s emissions by 2020, and two thirds of the cuts shall be taken nationally. With today's instruments, it unfortunately seems unrealistic. At the same time, we know that the cuts we're making towards 2020 can only be the beginning of much more extensive cuts towards 2050. Therefore, the time has come to replace investigations with actions and speeches by concrete actions. The government is showing considerable enthusiasm and energy out there. The question is when to pass on to the effort at home. We have experienced four lost years in renewable energy investment, and yet there are three years left until the green certificate market comes into place. It is essential that the Government come up with good transitional arrangements to ensure that not all new projects are put on hold until 2012. The most environmentally friendly energy is usually the one that is not used. Therefore, energy efficiency improvement is one of the most effective measures we can take to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Right wants to tighten up the requirements for energy management in new buildings and application-based rehabilitations, and we believe that the Government and the State have to go ahead as good examples. We need more exemplary projects that can help strengthen industry competence. It is very disappointing that the government's own new building in the government quarter is not going to satisfy energy label A in the new energy label scheme. The new building is going to qualify for B, while the two rehabilitated buildings have to pay attention to the character C. It is not good enough, and once again shows the distance between words and action in the government's climate and environmental policies. The building stock in Norway is slowly being replaced. Therefore, it is important that good incentives are available to implement energy efficiency measures in existing housing stock. Today, Enova mainly supports projects with energy savings potential exceeding 500000 kWh/year. Good instruments are needed to stimulate private households to implement energy saving measures in owner-occupied dwellings, as private dwellings account for a significant proportion of Norway’s energy consumption. On the right, the Government considers that different tax incentives should be used to determine different models. It would be simple, efficient and unbureaucratic. Climate change is a major challenge, but Norway has all the prerequisites for making it an opportunity. We have technology, competence and capital. But not all possibilities are triggered by themselves. The right has therefore proposed the creation of an eco-innovation fund in 2010, initially of DKK 5 billion. Over time, the ambition must be to build a significant fund. Norwegian industry emits relatively little CO2 per. the unit already produced, and with an eco-innovation fund, the Norwegian industry will have the opportunity to further develop environmentally friendly production at home that also has a non-transfer value. When the government decided to introduce a car diesel tax for biodiesel, it came as a surprise to both business operators and consumers. In budgetary terms, the biodiesel tax is not a major issue, but it illustrates the importance of predictability. The question that everyone is asking is when there is a similar charge for bioethanol, biogas and electricity used as fuel. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not contribute with clarity to the Question Time on Wednesday – on the contrary. The Government should therefore provide a rapid clarification of the principles underlying fuel charges and the way in which predictable and good frameworks can be created for those who want to develop and produce emission-reducing and environmentally friendly alternatives. Waste may be a resource. Enova uses significant resources to support energy conversion and district heating production. Unfortunately, there is too much Norwegian waste that either ends up in landfills or in Swedish district heating plants. On the right, we believe that we need to facilitate a competitive district heating industry and therefore propose to remove the combustion charge and increase the landfill charge considerably. This will prevent Norwegian district heating systems from fire unnecessarily with oil or other peak loads. 2010 is Naturmanfoldår. One of the most effective measures to address natural diversity in the world will be to succeed in an ambitious and binding climate agreement in Copenhagen. At the same time, there are concrete measures we can take at home to ensure natural diversity. In particular, the protection of forests. Therefore, the right considers that it should be set at 10 million. kr for the voluntary protection of forests in addition to the Government’s proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1053	While we are discussing the budget in Stortinget today, the negotiations on a new climate agreement start in Copenhagen. There we have to manage to limit the average temperature increase by 2 degrees. This means that we face major challenges internationally, and there are challenges with two key trends: large population growth and strong economic growth. It requires energy, and it also leads to large emissions of greenhouse gases. If we are to counteract global warming, we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions significantly. We need clear, international driving rules. That is why Copenhagen is so important. In addition to the fact that the Government is working for a tight international climate agreement, we are actively working at home. In the energy field, first of all, we focus on energy efficiency improvement, we also focus on the development of renewable energy, and not least on CO2 management. We can't help but notice that the world will need oil and gas for a long time, even in a 2-degree scenario. Only compensating for falling production from existing fields is a major challenge such as: will require technological development. The government will continue to manage petroleum resources to maintain Norway’s role as a long-term and predictable supplier of energy, thus contributing to Europe’s energy security. At the same time, we are totally dependent on the success of the development and use of technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions nationally and globally. The world needs new technology breakthroughs. We therefore have a job to do when it comes to finding good and environmentally friendly solutions. Since the last budget debate, I have had the pleasure of participating in important and interesting events in Norway in this way. I want to mention three world-class groundbreaking projects. Firstly, the start of the technology centre in Mongstad, where different technologies for the capture of CO2 are to be tested. Secondly, the opening of the HighWind mill, which is the world's first full-scale floating windmill. Thirdly, I had the pleasure of participating in the opening of Hurum very recently: the world's first prototype of a full-scale saline power plant – a technology that can have great global potential, with Norwegian State power in the driver's seat. This year’s budget is offensive in terms of precisely technological development. The government has prioritised research and development in renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and carbon capture and storage. We have made it a significant priority this year, as we have done in previous years. The 2010 budget proposes an increase of a total of 300 million. kr. That is in line with the climate agreement. Only over the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy has the appropriations for research in these areas risen to about 500 million. kr. It is a tripling of the appropriations for the purpose compared to 2006. I'm very pleased with that. Increased efforts in research and technology development would not have been possible without the broad commitment we see from business and research environments, such as: be clarified through work on our common energy research strategy, Energy21. The strategy provides the basis for the rapid conversion of the increase in appropriations into concrete research results and their results. In 2010, we are also adding up to an increase in petroleum research. The aim is that more energy-efficient technology solutions can contribute to lower greenhouse gas emissions on Norwegian soil. The establishment earlier this year of eight research centres for environmentally friendly energy has been a success. It's a system that we can build on. So in technology research, there's a lot going on. That's a prerequisite for success in the climate struggle. I am now working on a new expansion message on petroleum policy, as the Government announced in the Government Platform for the period 2009–2013. The activity on the Norwegian socket is changing. Oil production is falling and gas production is approaching the peak. Over the last few years, the cost level of the socket has exploded. Future projects on Norwegian soil are many and small, rather than large and few. Compared to the level of costs, it is challenging to obtain profitability in these small findings. There are also challenges to securing the future of our old fields. I have a strong desire to get with the whole country in the work on this message. I therefore had consultations with relevant actors in Stavanger and Kristiansund last week and I plan such consultations across the country – from Hammerfest in the north to Arendal in the south – during the winter. I hope to get good input into the further work, which is going to end up with a treatment in this room. Some parts of the supplier industry are facing a challenging situation in the short term. We have that in mind in our work, but the message will focus primarily on the long-term challenges facing the petroleum industry. My starting point in the design of the petroleum policy is that we should have good governance of national wealth and broad support for the long lines of petroleum policy. We must achieve it through balanced and comprehensive solutions and a clear and predictable policy. In the work on the message, there are some issues I want to pay particular attention to: firstly, to find remaining resources in areas where we want petroleum activities, secondly, to extract more from existing fields and findings, thirdly, greenhouse gas emissions and energy use in the sector, and, fourthly, employment in industry. This is not an exhaustive list, but it gives a picture of some key elements, from my point of view. As regards the timetable for this work, the frameworks for non-opened areas, among others, are: outside the Lofoten and the West Sea, the coastal zone north of the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea north, will be addressed in the context of the update of the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. It would be natural to look at the presentation of the petroleum message in the context of this update. The work on the message itself, I guess I want to do approx. a year. Energy use in society needs to be more efficient. The IEA points out that half of the greenhouse gas emission reduction needs to be taken through energy efficiency improvement. We're following this up. In our day, I asked Jan Reinås to lead the Lower Energy Commission. They promoted their recommendation in June, and I will follow up this work further. In the new government platform, we have said that we need to create an action plan for energy efficiency improvement in buildings, but in terms of energy efficiency improvement, we need to work more broadly and facilitate gradual tightening. The new technical rule for barley applies from 1 August of the autumn. It sets new requirements for better and more environmentally friendly energy use in buildings — in practice more insulation, tighter windows, more use of renewable energy sources. At the same time, the Government has sent a proposal to Nytek at the hearing, with further, stricter requirements. In industry, it's probably the most useful thing to pick up when it comes to saving the kilowatts. Enova has spent SEK 0.5 billion on energy efficiency measures in industry only this year. It's more than what's used for an industry in any other year in the past together. We are systematically focusing on energy conversion. The increased investment through Enova has produced good results. Since 2006 and up to and including July this year, grants have been granted to projects with expected energy performance of approximately 7.5 TWh per year. years. I would particularly like to point to the remote and near-heating process. We have gone from a situation where district heating was almost a non-solution in Norway, that we have today developed district heating pipes in 19 of the country's 20 largest cities. Enova has now triggered investments of NOK 6 billion in the district heating network. I would also like to mention that we have strengthened the NVE's capacity in terms of concession treatment. There is a need to further strengthen the renewable effort. Capacity almost doubled in 2009 compared to 2005. I would also like to mention that we are in a situation of concrete implementation of projects, where we have developed almost twice as much wind and hydropower as the other Nordic countries in the period 2006–08. So through what happens through concessional treatments, there are also concrete results. In order to reinforce this further, we agreed in the autumn with Sweden on the principle of the development of a single market for electricity certificates, starting in 2012. As the Stortinget is well known, we have also made a transitional arrangement to ensure progress in the projects up to that date, and we are entering and giving retroactive effect to construction start-ups after 1 January 2004 and installed power up to 1 MW. So it's also that networks are a prerequisite for the renewable effort. If renewable energy is to succeed, it is essential to cut production to the grid and bring energy to consumers. It will require significant investments in networks in the future, both domestically and against the rest of the world. And I'm set to do that job. Then we see that there are environmental challenges related to web development, and the discussion we are now discussing, among other things. in connection with the Sima-Samnanger transfer, just illustrates the conflicts related to both the development of renewable energy in general and networks in particular. Then, at the end of my article, I just want to refer to the great work that is now happening around CO2. It is possible that in Norway we now consider it to be the most natural thing in the world that we will spend 3.5 billion kroner on CO2 projects in 2010. It's natural in that way that CO2 is part of the solution, but it's definitely a boost and a bet that's never been made in this country to put in place an ecology that will clean CO2 from fossil energy sources. It is necessary to succeed in the climate struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1125	Hydropower is the cheapest and most environmentally friendly renewable energy we have. Will the Council consider reviewing the already protected watercourses to see if more hydropower can be taken from these watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1130	There are no plans to do so. What we're now seeing is that we have a formidable potential in particular small-scale power deployment. There are many issues for treatment in the NVE, and the NVE has also prescribed a potential beyond what has been so far submitted by concession applications, which are significant. So in the next few years, we will see a good and sensible expansion of hydropower in Norway – much of it within that small force, much of it also in the upgrading and development of existing power plants – which will help to increase our renewable energy production within the framework of policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1135	Governments are notifying an oil report, and it is from the Advance Party's long-lasting and cordial welcome. Now one has also registered the statement that SV has today turned around with regard to the TFO scheme, which they previously thought was undemocratic. SV has opened Goliath in the past, and the setting also states that SV and a so-called Joint Committee – minus the Christian People's Party – want to open up attractive exploration areas. So there should be nothing in Storting's signals that means that one should not be offensive also from the Government. However, for the public debate, it is known that the Oil Directorate has previously presented different scenarios of how oil Norway will be subject to given conditions. This scenario thinking has a lot of praise for the past, also political, but now, suddenly, one is no longer allowed to present it publicly. Can the Council of State ensure that the OD scenarios can once again be the subject of public debate, and not just of secrecy in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1144	To the last question: OD has made a decision on this scenario job and its presentation. If one is to use oil and gas policy scenarios in the future, I believe it is important that one relates to the more professional access to resource issues, related to management, in which case it is limited in terms of more policy assessments up to, for example. different climate regimes. For the introduction of the question of Solvik-Olsen's public debate on oil and gas and on energy policy, I think that we had all served that a little more of the debate was focused on substance, matter and content, and a little less on some kind of – I had almost said – criminology, related to which representatives and which parties have different views.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1151	When an investor in the energy field, either as a private individual or as an enterprise, does so for long-term reasons. There are often large and expensive investments, and that means that we are totally dependent on predictability in terms of framework conditions. Then I am a little concerned with the matter we have discussed in Stortinget regarding the budget and the biodiesel tax. This has created a great deal of unforeseeable for those who want to invest in environmentally friendly technologies and in environmentally friendly solutions. The right is concerned that we should have a predictability that provides security for this type of investment. My question to the Council of State is what the Council of State will do to restore confidence in this government in making environmentally friendly investments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1159	I disagree with the problem being raised. Firstly, it is not that there is unforeseeability in investing in the bio industry, which will be a future market, when one knows that there will be a integration requirement. So the frame for it is in place. As far as environmental technologies are concerned, I would like to mention – to begin with at one end – that when the Government proposes and the Storting decides today to use SEK 3.5 billion in environmental technologies related to capture and storage, I cannot understand which signals will be sent beyond it, given that the industry will continue to evolve. Once we have reached an agreement with Sweden to launch a green certificate market in a process up to 2012, it is a very good signal; it is a clear framework around the investment in renewable energy. What I am saying is that I believe that we are now developing a framework for energy policy in Norway that is clear and predictable, and where the industry knows what to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1168	We'll be writing in 2010. In this room there has been a great deal of agreement about wind power. We have the best wind power map in Europe. When the Bondevik II government went off in 2005, we were almost halfway to the target we had set at 3 TWh by 2010. Now this wind energy target is being scrapped by this government in the budget we are dealing with today, and it might as well be when we've managed to increase production by 0.4 TWh – that is 0.1 TWh per. years since 2005. It's not that much per cent. years, and then I bring with me the election campaign campaign that was on wind power in the summer of 2009. Does the Council of State see that the Government's cutting of the wind energy target of 3 TWh comes as a result of the red-green policy precisely in terms of wind power, because we have as good resources as we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1175	I think it is a problem for the political debate that one sometimes skips all the facts about matters. I believe that the representative Hemdal now makes himself a spokesman for that. In 2005, the cost of expanding wind in Norway was 0.41 kr per year. kWt. In 2008, it is SEK 1.5 per cent. kWt. If the representative Hemdal believes that it doesn't matter how many TWh – how many kWt – we get expanded, I disagree completely. I believe it is a debate that is very unprecise in terms of instruments and results. In this regard, we have had a financial crisis that has contributed to investors being careful about where they spend their money, and they want to sit and wait. We've spent more money than any other government, we've done more in this field than ever. Nevertheless, we see that the costs have almost quadrupled over a few years. That's clearly what results are. I believe that giving the impression that it does not matter is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1182	Prior to the Copenhagen climate summit, emphasis has been placed on the Government’s international work on CO2 capture and storage. The councils were also involved in their contribution here today. One of the clearest promises of the red-green government from 2005 was full-scale gas-fired power plants on Kårstø by 2009. Through the cases that have been submitted to Stortinget about the progress of cleaning Kårstø, it is still unclear when and how this should be done. What kind of signal effects does the Council of State think this gives outwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1190	In winter we decided to take a larger integration study, starting more offensive work on the situation in Kårstø. The signal effect if we had not done so could have been that we had a gas power plant on Kårstø that did not go, which did not release CO2, while at the same time we would have been building a sewage treatment plant in the billions class. It's not good environmental policy. My answer here is a little bit the same as on the previous question: we have to deal with the realities of the projects we are discussing. Nor can we get away from the fact that a few months ago we had a completely unclear operating situation with regard to Kårstø. I am very surprised if the representative Tenden believes that we should in any case build a sewage treatment plant on Kårstø, whether it is still or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1198	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1201	It is odd that a debate on the levy on biodiesel has a shadow over the environmental effort of the time in the state budget, an overall environmental effort in the budget which increases by 17 p.m.. until close to $38 billion. There is a large increase in measures to reduce rainforests, investments in collective action and urban development, renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and environmental technologies, to name the most significant. I agree with what has been said earlier in the debate today that the oil and gas sector will also be very important in the future. But he needs to be more environmentally friendly. The development of CO2 capture and storage technologies on Kårstø and Mongstad is a major economic and technological lever, but we can't afford to bet too much on this. Hydropower, other renewable power generation and energy efficiency are becoming even more important in the future. That is why the Renewable Fund and Enova will be strengthened. A $60 million budget increase. kr to NVE as well as will lead to a better capacity for concessional treatment is also a commitment to renewable energy. Green certificates from 2012 and a transitional regime until they are in place will also make a major contribution to the same development. 2010 is the UN International Year for the Protection of Natural Diversity. Ensuring natural disasters is a high priority in the Ministry of the Environment's budget for 2010. The National Park Plan will be completed mainly in the next year. As we continue to protect new areas, each municipality will be bound on much of its area. It is crucial, in my view, that the state participates in the exploitation of the potential for the creation of value that is in the unique nature of these municipalities. There is now a programme of value creation in the field of natural disasters in 2009 and the 2010 budget now includes an overall effort for the creation of valuables related to nature protection of close to 26 million. kr. I mean that this bet has to be kept up in the future. People in the countryside have lived by mountains and nature for generations after generation. Nature has been part of the basis of life and identity. Therefore, it is deeply anchored that one should use, but not consume, nature. That's why it's also important that we now get a local management model. The Committee has made it clear in its budgetary position that the decision-making authority shall lie with the intercommunal board of directors set up by this management model. At the same time, the incoming government administrator shall be a secretary to the board, contribute with competence, including research and experience-based knowledge. There has been some opposition to this administration being state-owned, but with this role clarification this should be a very good arrangement. It is also important that, as far as advice is concerned, these management positions are placed in local centres of expertise such as national parks centres or other information centres, such as local centres. wild reindeer. The state's natural supervision is greatly increased in the budget. Oversight has a great deal of work to do when it comes to safeguarding national environmental values and preventing crime. However, it is also important that the tasks and roles of local mountain government and supervision are not weakened. It is resource-free and ineffective for SNO and mountain government to do the same tasks. Since the SNO was created in 1996, there have been many places of great irritation and some conflicts due to the fact that the SNO and the mountain government have drawn on the same footing. Now this has to be cleaned up, and more departments have to participate in this cleanup. There must be a commitment here that mountain supervision should have a central role and secure financing in the future. I have, for my part, had a meeting with the leadership both in the Mountain Government Association and in the SNO, and I feel a strong willingness to have good cooperation in the future. These are tasks enough for everyone, and good cooperation will make better use of the competences and strengthen both sides. I would like to point out that a joint committee in the setting proposed that the SNO and the Mountain Council should reach an agreement such as this. includes the SNO's service purchase of the Mountain Board. Furthermore, the Committee believes that it is important that service-purchase tasks are as much as possible from year to year, so that mountain governments can build up the necessary competences. In my view, good conditions for mountain government will be wise and rational and contribute to local respect and responsibility for nature protection and natural management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1223	The Progress Party is concerned that we have a differentiated business life that has predictable framework conditions in terms of taxes and charges. A prerequisite for Norwegian industry to compete with similar foreign companies is that the state provides the companies with the same taxes and taxes imposed on the industry in the competing countries. Access to the necessary energy at predictable prices for long-term contracts is a prerequisite for the development of industry. No one is willing to invest in industry if the energy supply in a long-term perspective is uncertain. Norway is in the lucky situation that almost 100 pst. the electrical energy comes from hydropower. With the expansion of hydropower throughout Norway, industrial expansion also came. The power-intensive industry has developed into a world leader. Much of the power has expanded this industry itself. In the next ten years, much of the force has become the subject of a fall-back. If taxes and climate taxes are imposed on the industry when new energy contracts are to be concluded, this could mean that the industry is moving to countries with lower taxes on the environment and energy. In 2008, the EU adopted a review of the Trade Directive to prevent countries’ industry from being exposed to carbon leakage. Carbon leakage causes industrial enterprises in Norway to move to countries with lower environmental and energy taxes. The Progress Party commends the Government that the 2012 Green Certificate Scheme becomes technology neutral. What is still unclear is how the transitional arrangements for the green certificates will be designed. The Progress Party agrees that research on renewable energy is necessary. Norwegian industry has every opportunity to become a major supplier of both wind and solar equipment. What is very important, however, is that we use the water reserves that are still left in the country. Here is the cheapest energy that can be converted into electricity. The introduction of permanent protection of multiple watercourses should now be reconsidered. The Progress Party fully shares the view of committee leader Erling Sande that small-scale power generation developed in sheltered watercourses should be able to increase from 1 MW to 3 MW. Unfortunately, Sande's view of such an increase is not shared by the government. Green certificates will probably produce more electricity. The problem of the power grid exists today and will be substantially exacerbated. Statnett plans to expand and upgrade the core network over the next ten years of NOK 40 billion. In order to do that, Statnett has asked for a government injection of NOK 4 billion into equity to implement the large network programme. This has been rejected by the Government, while the majority of the profits from both Statkraft and Statnet go directly into the state treasury. L.O. Manager Roar Flöthen says in a look-up in Energy News the following: ‘We have to get away from a situation where it is the State budget that determines what State power has the ability to invest in.’ The same can be said of Statnett. The Progress Party has proposed, in its alternative budget, that the Government be asked to present to the Stortinget a case on how to improve the equity situation of Statnet. Without a large effort on the grid in the coming years, the supply situation will remain a major problem in several places. The government does not seem to want to design a comprehensive plan for Norwegian energy policy. The Group of the Party of European Socialists wants an overall plan covering energy, the environment, industry and infrastructure. Such a plan will be necessary to shape the future Norwegian energy, environmental and industrial policies. The government’s refusal to prepare a comprehensive plan has many parallels to the government’s refusal to privatise in several areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1250	It has some exciting and instructive months in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Norway is and will be an energy power, and our huge resources will ensure a high standard of living for many years to come. Norway is the largest in clean renewable energy in Europe, and it also obliges us to take a great deal of responsibility in climate policy. Right-wing wants an offensive network policy that facilitates a large-scale effort on clean renewable energy. We need greater capacity in the network, both domestically and in Europe, and greater consideration must be given to the negative impacts of air routes on the environment, important landscapes and people's quality of life. If Norway is to be a major exporter of pure renewable energy, we need a network that can handle this, and it is urgent to start planning and expanding. I'm surprised that the Government is not much more offensive in this area. Net capacity is equally important for the development of clean renewable energy as the road network is for the development of other parts of society. Right proposes the development of a so-called maritime cable super-network in order to manage offshore wind power, domestic coastal power transmission and power transmission to the rest of the world. We have to make a choice if we are to ‘lock’ the electricity inside Norway, or if we are to supply Europe with pure renewable energy. We already have plenty of power for domestic needs today. Right will link Norway much stronger to Europe with cables both to the continent and to the United Kingdom. It will also open up to electrify the socket at a much more reasonable price than what has been planned for now. Electrification of the socket with Norwegian hydropower is also an exciting thought in a climate accounting. Greater consumption and more that can be shared by costs will also have a positive impact on the electricity price in Norway. Large capacity towards Europe will generate large revenues for the country and the owners of the power generation and the grid. Today, the state, county councils and municipalities receive over 55 billion kroner from power generation. The new cable connection to the Netherlands is being disbursed over three to four years, and with a lifetime of 50 years, this is a good indication that these investments are very profitable and that it is urgent to build up more. Norway also has a great responsibility to facilitate clean renewable energy from Norway to contribute to making Europe capable of achieving climate change targets. A new coastal supernet, such as a backbone between offshore production and domestic production, can reduce the need for the largest lines within the country. If one can use the fjords as access to such a network, it could also save important landscapes and havoc. Linking Norway more strongly to Europe with cables could lead to an increase in electricity prices for power-intensive industries and other consumers. We also need to be open and include that in a comprehensive assessment. Right-wing wants a professional selection to go through the various technological solutions that can provide security and more gentle power transmission through vulnerable natural areas in the future, including the use of earth and sea cables. There will be a great need for new cable technologies that can deliver greater capacity, safer transmissions and lower costs. This applies to both ground and sea cables. Technology companies need a strong signal that we want a development in this area. Such a marshall can be compared to the enormous technological developments we have seen in the oil industry in the last decades, and Norwegian competence can be exported in the same way as he is in the oil industry. Right? We have to set big goals of being at the forefront of this development. Right-handers propose that guidelines be developed for the transmission of cables in the central network, which open up the possibility of increased use of earth or sea cables in conflict areas, and where alternative cables may reduce the level of conflict and the burden on the environment. State networks and other plans to expand the grid on the basis of policy guidelines, where one in practice says no to the use of cable for the highest voltages. This means that the major negative impacts of air voltage on the environment, the important landscape area, the proximity to busses and people's quality of life are of little importance when planning new lines. We see that the new 420 kV powerlines planned in Hardanger and between Fardal and Ørskog have very negative consequences for Fjord-Noreg, which is well-kept for the world's leading destinations and one of UNESCO's heritage sites. It would be tragic if we were to get several hundred kilometers of gigantic power streets through the fjord landscape in the West, which would be very devastating for Norway as a destination, and for the quality of life of thousands of inhabitants. We need a new web policy, and it's urgent. Right asks that this work be continued and hopes that the government party will also see the benefits of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1288	Norway has enormous competitive advantages in the energy sector. We are rich in natural resources, and we are capable of managing resources so that jobs and well-being can be created through them. We've proven that with oil and gas for over 40 years. Now we're in the starting point for renewable energy. The climate crisis and the financial crisis have both marked the world and Norway in recent years – and in recent days. It is about reducing CO2 emissions and the safe economy and jobs. By investing in renewable energy, we are relieving both of these objectives. The world is going to need both oil and gas for decades to come. At the same time, a new industry in the energy sector and knocks harder and harder on the door. With regard to new renewable energy, we've come a long way here at home. It's going to be green certificates in 2012. Obligations of the EU renewable directive will be another driver, not least in relation to the wording of Soria Moria. We need all the jobs that can be created in the energy sector. We need industrial development. We can best do this by looking at the whole of this sector and interacting with the different actors across sectors. We need to get together to maximise the ring-effects in the energy sector. When we talk about new renewable energy, land-based wind power is the most advanced. Wind power is excellent to combine with hydropower – an industry we have created great values through, for over 100 years. With wind power and hydropower on land, we can also make the oil activity along our coast more sustainable by electrification, not least in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, where there is new activity. And another important point: by looking at these areas of energy recovery together and making the actors interact, we have a greater chance of increasing the ring-effects beyond what individual industries create for themselves. This interaction should also include the visibility of infrastructure needed by the inland supply industry, not least in relation to – as has been said here earlier – network capacity. There is no mention of either oil and gas or new renewable energy. It's about both and. As mentioned, we need jobs. We need to strengthen the natural and technological competitive advantages we have in the petroleum sector and at the same time build new ones in renewable energy. What is also very important is the professional treatment of new energy projects. There has been an increasing number of applications for these renewable energy projects in recent years. Among other things, the NVE has been increasing funds in recent years. The case-handling time is still too long. It's got to go down. Let's use our resources properly. One should have something to live for and something to live with. So finally, the grey outlook for Norwegian industry right now is also an indication of what the future looks like. If the Norwegian oil industry goes to the end, there are also significant ring-effects in relation to this industry. The price of keeping the seas closed is less work for Norwegian businesses. This issue should be evident in the debate on oil activities in North Norway. The closure of the marine areas for petroleum activities is not free. Whether the benefits of opening up areas are proportionate to the risk is a debate that needs to be based on professional investigations and, above all, on the management plan that we are facing. Don't let feelings run off with us in such a debate. Let's use the knowledge, so we can do this in a proper way. Let's get a proper review, so we do the right things, and so maybe we can still have a coexistence between fish and oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1308	At the beginning of the 1990s, the debate on sustainable development was the theme of the environmental debate, including: Gro Harlem Brundtland in the head. We talked about having a development that the earth could tolerate, where it saw consumption in the rich part of the world, wealth development in the poor part of the world and the fight against poverty in the context of environmental problems. I believe that the recognition of the closeness of the environmental and poverty problem is even more important now than in the past. That's why I believe that although the debate here today obviously has the most national focus, it's right to raise your eyes a little. On Wednesday, the budget of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy will be discussed, and it will be closely related to what we are discussing today, because national and international policies are linked. We have knowledge and know how dramatic climate change impacts on the poor part of the world. We know how crucial it is for the rich part of the world to change its energy production and the rates of development of new technologies. We know how vital it is to combat poverty in order to enable countries to achieve a development that does not contribute to further worsening of the world's environmental problems. Because it is a fact that it is the poorest who are hit hardest by, among other things, climate change. If we don't slow down the global temperature increase, we know how it will affect access to, among other things. clean water and food, and we know how storms, unstable weather and sea rise will hit large parts of the world. And we will face major challenges in dealing with climate refugees in the coming years. Discussing poverty and the environment in the context is challenging for us who are from the rich part of the world, because we have a number of moral dilemmas. We have built up our wealth with a large extraction of natural resources, and we have an ever-increasing consumption, with associated pollution and emissions of greenhouse gases. The question we should then ask ourselves is: can we refuse other parts of the world to have the same evolution that we have had? Can we say to the poorest people in the world that they should not be able to drive a car, not be able to increase their consumption, not use their natural resources and achieve the same wealth that we have? We can't say that, but we can't stand that they're doing all the mistakes that we've made, because our globe won't tolerate it. When countries, which account for less than 20 pst. by the population of the world, stands for almost 40 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions, it goes without saying that we have a challenge in our part of the world, not least here in Norway. We must have sound management of our natural resources in relation to the energy and environmental policies we conduct nationally. We are an oil and gas producing country with the great responsibility it entails. We need to focus more on renewable energy and environmentally friendly transport solutions. We need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions nationally, while helping to limit emissions in the poorest countries through, among other things. the development of technology and its transfer. Therefore, it is also important that countries such as Norway spend money on assistance, even if there is disagreement in this room about it. And it's the same party that's most sceptical about climate change, which is most opposed to spending money on aid, and which believes it's right to cut half of the appropriations for NORAD, 60 pst. of the regional appropriations allocated to Africa and almost half of the appropriations allocated to environmental and sustainable development. The party is called the Progress Party for the sake of order. I think it is right to spend money on aid directly for climate action such as reducing deforestation and climate adaptation, not at the expense of, but in addition to assistance related to health, education and democracy development. It is also about enabling countries to manage their own developments, including: to address environmental problems. Things are related. What we do in Norway, and what we do internationally, means something. That's also why I wanted us to take a look here today, and I invite everyone in the Energy and Environment Committee to participate in the debate that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee will have on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1326	It feels very appropriate to debate the budgetary position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment at the beginning of the Copenhagen climate summit. Norwegian climate policy has ambitious emission reduction objectives. Internationally, measures against deforestation in developing countries and the work on CO2 treatment in Mongstad are likely to be of particular interest. As a member of the Financial Committee, I am also involved in the work of aligning fiscal policies in such a way that they stimulate environmental friendliness. In the Party Party's Party programme: ‘Suitable use of taxes and charges can bring significant positive climate gains. The Workers' Party will seek fiscal instruments that can contribute in the most cost-effective way possible to environmentally friendly economic development.’» We know that economic incentives work. Therefore, it is beneficial to set up the systems so that one pays for emissions, so as to take up the external costs it has for society. What is beneficial to me can be unfavorable to society as a whole. Therefore, environmental emissions should be priced. Sometimes it may also be appropriate to propose low-emission tax reductions, as we do with the one-off car registration fee, in order to stimulate the conversion from high to low emissions. The 2010 budget proposes a CO2 tax on the use of gas for heating, which intends to ensure that gas does not compete with more environmentally friendly alternatives. Much has been said and written about the phase-out of the tax exemption for biodiesel on the car diesel fee. I am not going to help make more rounds of it now, just saying that the general principles, which I believe a large majority here agree with, must be that the polluter should pay, and that the tax and tax system must be adapted to provide the most appropriate incentives to promote good solutions for the environment and in view of emission reductions. Then there are certainly different things to be said about how these principles are to be turned into practical policies in each specific case. But a starting point in this case was among other things. that the exemption contributed to the overall reduction of the levy, thereby giving wrong incentives to the environment. In the 2010 budget, the conversion of car charges continues in a more environmentally friendly direction. The power component of the one-off charge is reduced to allow for the increase of the CO2 component. In this way, the lower one-off charge for environmentally friendly cars and higher charges for cars with higher emissions. The economic incentive to choose cars with low CO2 emissions is reinforced and will stimulate more environmentally friendly car fleets. In recent years there has been a clear reduction in emissions from new cars, and it appears that the CO2 component can explain much of the emission reductions. Several cars have reduced the one-off charge by as much as 40000–50000 kroner. Eight years ago, the average CO2 emissions from new passenger cars were slightly above 180 grams per year. kilometers, and five years later it was almost as high. For comparison, emissions have fallen from 177 to 152 g/km only from CO2 emissions were introduced as a main component of the charge in 2007 and up to this year. The government’s objective is that the average CO2 emissions for new cars should be 120 g/km in 2012. Finally, two things that are mentioned in the financial position, and which I will mention in this context: Firstly, new environmentally friendly technology is a crucial contribution to achieving climate policy objectives. For 2010, 100 million were proposed. kr through Innovation Norway for this new initiative, which has not been included in the State budget before. Through the landfill treatment, the framework increased by another 40 million. kr. Secondly, we have lacked the market for waste incineration. The waste incineration tax has several positive environmental effects. At the same time, the industry is concerned that tax differences between Norway and Sweden can have consequences for Norwegian district heating expansion and lead to increased transport by driving Norwegian garbage to Swedish plants. Until the revised budget, a review of the environmental impact has been requested to find out more about the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1383	More and Romesdal have been a deficit area on electricity for several years. We're still going to be. This poses major challenges, especially for our power-generating industry. The undercoverage provides both higher power prices and higher transmission costs to the industry in our state over a period of time. Hydro Aluminium Sunndal shut down in the spring production in the oldest manufacturing plant, Su3, because. the market situation for aluminium. The market has now recovered, and Hydro assesses the ongoing possibilities for starting up Su3. Unfortunately, the framework conditions for the aluminium industry in Norway have deteriorated. Statnett has notified increased network tariffs due to large investments, including transmission cables to the continent, the NorNed cable. Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers of the central network must therefore finance the organisation of electricity exports to the rest of the world by Statnett. It is reasonable for industry to contribute to the financing of lines to areas of subsidisation in Norway, such as More and Romsdal, but it seems unreasonable for our industry to finance the export of energy to abroad. This is perceived as a paradox when More and Romesdal are a deficit area for electricity. The aluminium industry in Norway is supplied with clean hydropower. It is difficult to accept that the industry will pay the CO2 tax on our clean and renewable hydropower. This results in a significant increase in energy costs, which in turn affects the framework conditions of the aluminium industry. I believe that the government must work for the Norwegian industry to receive compensation for the CO2 tax. These notified changes to the framework conditions make the situation more difficult for start-up of Su3 on Sunndalsøra. It also hampers further investment in the aluminium industry in Norway. In the longer term, the framework conditions may cause the aluminium industry to flag out parts of the world where the energy source is unpolluted gas or coal power. Here we can mention, for example: Hydro's establishment in Qatar, where they go on pure gas power. In addition to the loss of value creation, important jobs and competences, the global environment will also lose on the flagging-out of the aluminium industry, as total climate emissions will increase significantly. Such an increase in climate emissions is contrary to what the Government and the red-green majority on the Storting want. That is why I expect the Government to take action to avoid the aluminium industry flagging out of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1406	This is a budget debate, and budget debates are, of course, the same as the budget debates are. But this is a budget debate that is even more than a regular budget debate, because the money we put on the table in the different areas today, which will apply for the next year, is important in relation to how we will meet the climate challenges ahead of us. Norway is a small country, and if we are big in many other contexts, it becomes a little strange for me to hear more representatives here. I understand the nature of politics – it's position and opposition – but now the world's leaders are going to sit down in Copenhagen where they're going to try to get the big countries to join an agreement, where they're going to talk about getting on the table who is going to pay, when the agreement is in place, and how we're going to meet the goals that a whole world has set, by 2020. It's solid – it's big. The government has said that we should commit ourselves, and the state councils – both of them – have today confirmed that we should not only commit ourselves, we should also deliver when the agreement is in port, and hopefully in a short time will also be in port in relation to a legally binding agreement. I'm not saying that the debate here is getting small, but it's still going to be a strange debate. I wonder at the Christian People's Party, which I perceive very often has been associated with the red-green and also the centre parties to find the good solutions for, among other things. The climate issue, and if you take the programs both to the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, it's very much the same, and if you look at the budget settings, it's very much the same. Then I do not fully understand that the Workers' Party is defined as a climate hosting. I understand the nature of politics, that it is important to show that the Workers' Party somehow destroys the SV or the Center Party, but there is so much that unites us, and then I think it is important that those parties in the Centre and among the Red-Greens who have said something about where they are now, and where they are going to be able to find the solutions to this together afterwards. Erling Sande had a question for the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen related to the climate panel. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen did not answer the question. So that question was not about what the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen thinks about the government's policy, but about what the Progress Party believes in. Do they believe that the climate conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel will guide policy-making in this area? And what does the Progress Party really think should be the basis for the decisions to be taken here in the Grand Duchy? Doesn't even the Progress Party even believe in the 2-degree target? Does not the Progress Party see that this is a huge poverty challenge in the world? And what is the direction of the Progress Party to achieve these goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1415	I record that the representative Sund is concerned with the Christian People's Party's policy, and what we agree with the Government on. It's nice, but I'm going to use my debut here on the pulpit to talk about something we don't agree on, that's oil activity outside of Jan Mayen. The Storting examined the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in spring 2009 and in that Government takes the first steps towards petroleum activity outside Jan Mayen. I also recorded that the representative Serigstad Valen signalled agreement with the Christian People's Party in our strong scepticism against this process. Add all the over-measures to look for oil and have activity as close as 30 km from the coast outside of Jan Mayen, while outside Finnmark has a limit of 50 km. There's reason to ask what's the difference between the Finnmark coast and the coast outside of Jan Mayen in that respect. Is it just that there should be voters along the Finnmark coast? We in the Christian People's Party believe that there should be a limit of 120 km, because we know that oil emissions are the greatest risk of petroleum activity, and therefore we should have sufficient response time for any discharge. The Christian People's Party is also of the opinion that we should not at all open up such an exploration process outside of Jan Mayen, of respect for nature and of respect for the precautionary principle. Today, therefore, the Christian People's Party has a proposal that is distributed, where we propose to suspend the planned opening process that the Government has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1424	I take the floor to comment on a few things that have emerged in the debate. I thought I would start with a visit to the Christian People's Party – not to the previous speaker, but to the representative Hämdal, who sums up the last four years that it has our 'break in renewable energy' and that nothing has happened. You're allowed to be impatient. There is also a Central Party in this area, but there is no right to twist the truth. It would have honoured the Christian People's Party to be something more honest in relation to what has happened in the field of renewable policy. The number speaks, as it is called, and in the period 2006–08 3 TWh new renewable energy came into operation – significantly more than the previous three years, during the Bondevik II government. It was a case-by-case project corresponding to 1.5 TWh, which is also more than what the Bondevik II administration received at the same time. Then to the Progress Party. The representative of Solvik-Olsen does not answer the question in the correspondence. One thing is to say that one takes seriously its UN Climate Panel reports, and that is a big step, I think, with the eyes of the Progress Party. But I'm going to give the representative from the Progress Party a chance to go one step further: completely independent of the Government's priorities, does the Progress Party believe that the Climate Panel's recommendations relate to CO2 cut to achieve the 2-degree target should be fundamental to Norwegian policy, or should it not? It's an essential question, which I would like to have answered. So a little extra question about the network. It has been claimed several times by Solvik-Olsen's representative, and now also by this spokesperson, that Statnett has not received any new signal when it comes to networks, including that Statnett is not familiar with the new guidelines put forward by the Government, and also presented to this Chamber. In that case, it's alarming. And since it has been said from this pulpit, I also feel the need to ask – since I myself am not aware of these signals – where do these signals come from? So what kind of pronunciation is that that has come, in public or in official papers, so that we at the Stortinget should have a chance to get to know it? Finally, the representative Grimstad in the Progress Party asks whether I and the Senterpartie still have targets of 3 MW when expanding in sheltered watercourses. In fact, we believe that it is the effect of the protection that must be decisive in terms of development, and that it is wrong to set such a limit of 1 MW. We will continue to fight for our vision in terms of mass and in terms of government when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1440	At the end of the debate, I want to bring it back to what it really is about, namely the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy for 2010. If you look at the budgets, you can see that the Christian People's Party is basically in agreement with the Government as it is possible to become and at the same time not be a member of the Government – a little up here, and a little down there – but essentially the Christian People's Party is 99.9 pst. agree with the Government if you look at the budget. It is a citizen of good cooperation in the future. The Progress Party is a clear opposition party. It has always been in environmental policy. But what I wonder most about is the Right Budget. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the Stortinget to the Right's proposal there, which has not been in the debate until now, to cut 70 million. kr in the budget of the Directorate for Nature Management at Trondheim. It's cutting more than half of the budget of the Directorate of Nature Management for the very year we're entering, which is the year of natural diversity. The most important directorate, the most important public tool in nature diversity, must therefore be cut so that it is more than halved in the coming year. The Directorate for Nature Management is also important with regard to the wild species, which was mentioned earlier in the debate, and that is of course important for the implementation of the predatory settlement on which the Right has been involved. In short, in most of the natural areas, the Directorate for Nature Management is crucial. So I wonder what kind of environmental policy signals are here. But it also has a social, economic and employment relationship. If you're going to cut more than half of the budget with budgetary impact for 2010, everyone will realize that there's no other way to do it than to kick half of the employees – and do it immediately. How else in the world are we going to have a budgetary impact for 2010 that is more than half the budget? It's possible that this is just meant as a demonstration proposal, which cannot be put into life in the real world. But if the Right believes to promote the budget of reality, I have to be allowed to ask what this is. I would also like to ask the Right-wing representatives of the South-Trundelag to explain this. There is no possibility of maintaining a separate Directorate for Nature Management in Trondheim if more than half of the employees are to be fired. So this is a strange environmental policy and a strange policy towards the employees, who have employees' rights in the Norwegian society that should be well known.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1449	It's always fun to hear debates where the Christian People's Party is praised for good suggestions and for a good policy. What's going to be a little disappointing then is to see that all the good suggestions are going down again and again. If the government party, with SV at its head, thought there were really such good proposals, I would encourage the representatives to vote for the good proposals of the Christian People's Party. In this way, environmental policy can be better. The representative Sund came up with an attack on the Christian People's Party for the way we put forward proposals, including in this budget debate. I have to say that what's a little disappointing, when I see it as there's quite a lot of agreement in Stortingen about fighting for a more radical environmental policy, is that I see the Labour Party as a brake pad to get this done. That's why I want to go on with another example, which I think is incredibly important. When one is at the beginning of the negotiations in Copenhagen today, I thought it was nice to have a perspective where Norway is going in front, where we can be an example, where we can show that we really take the challenges seriously. It's a special project in Canada, an oil sand project, where Norway, represented by Statoil, enters an oil sand field of 1,100 km2. There is a project that is extremely damaging to the environment. Therefore, I would like to take advantage of the possibility to challenge the government party that this is a matter to which you can say no. Oil extraction is the most climate-intensive way of extracting oil. CO2 emissions are significantly higher than those from offshore oil production on Norwegian soil. The method of extraction of oil sands by Statoil is based on an injection of water vapour which dissolves the bitumen from the sand. The method has led to the massive use of natural gas for the production of water vapour, which in turn brings with it large CO2 emissions. The Christian People's Party strongly opposed the fact that Norway's largest energy company, Statoil, which has the state as the major majority shareholder, was going to go into this project. It gave the Christian People's Party clear expression already in 2007, when investments for 12 billion kr became known. That is why we have also put forward a proposal that allows the government parties to express what many of the representatives, especially from the Central Party and the SV, expressed in the election campaign, simply the same scepticism or resistance to the oil sand project in Canada that the Christian People's Party has. We're going to act and use our funds so that we can judge others. When we're going into demanding international negotiations, I had hoped Norway could go even further in front. That's why it's important to me that we follow up the big words in action here. It is an important environmental issue, and I urge the representatives of the government party to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1467	I first want to say thank you to Eva Kristin Hansen, who came in and not only participated in raising the debate, but also looking at those in the world who already have a much bigger challenge associated with poverty and climate change. So a little visit to the Minister for the Environment. Yes, the Christian People's Party and the Government probably agree on a lot. We want a little more forest protection. We want to spend a little more money on the wild, get a little better stocking in relation to predators and a little more money for outdoors. But otherwise we'll probably agree on a lot. I want to challenge the Council of State on two observations that the majority have. One goes on the relationship to volunteering. It is stated in a note that you want to take a ‘power cap in public health work with a focus on outdoor life’. There has also been a proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party for its own big message, but it is not a majority in favour of it. today. But the note has the majority behind it. How will the Council of State follow up this remark? It is an important note in relation to preventive health work. So I want to draw attention to another remark about non-governmental organisations. Many non-governmental organisations receive basic support from the Ministry of the Environment. The majority are asked to have a full review of the eligibility criteria. When will this review be done? Will it be submitted to the Stortinget before the 2011 budget, so that it is possible for everyone to know what they might have to do with 2011 as a year of operation? So to the Sund representative, who is concerned that we have to unite, and not make a distance. I don't think it's been on the Christian People's Party to unite. The Christian People's Party was well, along with the Left and Right, one of the driving forces behind a climate settlement. We pulled the government in the right direction. But that's the way we can't go in the right direction if we don't meet. Now the climate comrades have twice in writing – in a letter – asked for a meeting to clean up something that we disagree about. We are told that the Prime Minister and the parliamentary leaders on the government side will meet in January, after the Copenhagen meeting. But the fact that we were going to meet after Copenhagen, we agreed in 2008, so this is no news. However, we have still not received a concrete answer to our request in relation to the specific matter that Stortinget discussed a few weeks ago. And to the representative Sande, that we couldn't achieve a wind energy target of 3 TWh with the best wind power map in Europe, for me, there's no proof other than that there's been a break in renewable production.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1482	There have been slightly different arguments and claims in the debate. I'll comment on some of them. First, the Minister of Energy, who criticises his critics for not dealing with the realities. Among other things, it was probably the Christian People's Party that was subjected to Kårstø, because it is pointless to build a sewage treatment plant for a gas power plant that does not go. I fully agree with that. That is why the Progress Party already said in 2005-2006 that Kårstø cleaning should be ice-creamed in its present form, and a better project should come up. But it's not a defense of the government's policy. For the Government, until the last year, Kårstø has said that it will be cleared in 2009. And if you could actually do that, you had to start building this in 2006, because it takes three years to build. Thus, there is a complete lack of reality when the government criticises its critics, because the government has no defence when they did not start the project themselves in 2006. Or could Odd Roger Enoksen already know that the gas power plant would be calm in 2009? I doubt he could predict that. This just shows that the government had no opportunity to fulfill its promise. Then a good afterwards can find good arguments for why it was good that it didn't happen anyway, but it's not because of the government's desired policy, on the contrary, that's because the government had unrealistic expectations. Once again, one comes up with the problem that the whole, the long-term and the predictability are not present in the energy policy of the Government. Sometimes the lucky ones, some things go on business as usual, but the long lines that had actually done that we had been triggered more projects than what has now happened, we haven't had. The fact that we have received some project, there is no doubt about it. But I'm a little surprised at the list that's being drawn up. Because if you say that it has been realized so and so much wind and water in 2006-2008, is the red-green project or is it the Bondevik project that has been realised? If you take away the Sauda Falls, how much is left? The point is that many of the projects that the Government is now boasting of are projects that they themselves would have stopped with the Swedish government. Much of this used Stoltenberg in the election campaign, but there were even higher numbers. This included, among other things: two gas power stations which this government was actually supposed to see were not there. So this is going to be very little reality-oriented and really the most manipulation. Then Eirin Sund once again came with air conditioning. I would just refer you to Document No. 8:97 from 2006 to 2007. All the answers are there. Read it, and I won't spend time on the pulpit. To the representative Sande: we have said that we base the precautionary principle. Is it that hard to understand? This does not mean that we are listening to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change for that reason and saying that they should conduct Norwegian climate policy. But we have presented our actions. I do not believe that the Government is copying the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change correctly. In that case, it wouldn't have been good to have, for example. The climate project. In the case of an online signal: Tor Inge Aksensen, information manager of Statnett, said in the evening post in 2007 that the Government will bring new orders to Statnett, they must get it in the form of concrete decisions, and it had not arrived. When we had a hearing on this, he said the same thing. This was also said by the National Association of Energy Enterprises. There are no new signals from the Government in the Internet policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1501	I am, like many others here in the Chamber, concerned with measures that will reduce climate change emissions. That's how aluminium is a green metal that the world needs and wants – fortunately. For by replacing the heavier steel with the light metal aluminium in different transport vessels such as: Cars, boats, trains or aeroplanes will use much less fuel and CO2 emissions will be reduced. The aluminium can also be recycled almost indefinitely. Therefore, it is important for me to find out that the electrolysis process of aluminium produces 2 kg of CO2 per. kilograms of aluminium. If aluminium is produced on hydropower, the CO2 emission remains at 2 kg. But with gas power, emissions rise to 8 kg, and with coal power to a total of 18 kg per. kg of aluminium produced. This knowledge must involve taking action internationally to ensure that the green metal has to be produced on hydropower or other renewable energy. I have a strong call for car manufacturers to bet on environmentally friendly cars. They should of course bet on using the most aluminium possible in their cars because this means lower fuel consumption. In addition, of course, they should only use aluminium produced from hydropower or other renewable energy. I believe that this morally and ethically is the only thing right in view of the climate challenges. Fortunately, people are becoming more and more climate conscious, and this leads, among other things. increased demand for environmentally friendly cars. Many are willing to pay a little more to contribute to reducing climate change. I think many are willing to pay a few thousand more for their environmentally friendly car if they know it's produced on aluminium based on hydropower or other renewable energy. Such cars should therefore, in my view, be labelled as extra climate friendly, and thus also receive reduced charges in addition to what is available today. Perhaps next year there will be a theme in the treatment of the government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1519	The representative of the Christian People's Party follows up the tone of the Christian People's Party in this debate: they commend on the one hand since the representative Eva Kristin Hansen to raise the level of debate and raise the eye, but insists themselves on sticking to the hacking of the government parties, which stand the Christian People's Party much closer in environmental policy than the Christian People's Party's friends in the Progress Party and the Right. The representative called later as if he did not know how parliamentarianism works when he challenges SV to vote for any good proposal that comes from the Christian People's Party. It's a rhetorical boomerang, all the time SV has been impressed by far more of the Christian People's Party's environmental policy than the Christian People's Party itself has ever done in government. We have been given rainforest bets, clean-up of emissions – as the Christian People's Party had two periods ago – and targets for emission cuts, which are literally infinitely more times better than the Christian People's Party did when they traveled to Kyoto and negotiated Norwegian emissions. Thus the Christian People's Party coincides rationally. One cannot, with his back straight, present it as if SV is the victim of an anti-climate Workers' Party, all the time the Workers' Party is demonstrably leading a better climate policy than the Christian People's Party. The Workers' Party is actually cleaning up the emissions of the Christian People's Party. That's why it's sad to hear that the Christian People's Party has chosen throughout this debate to talk more about SV, which may be the party that stands the Christian People's Party closest to climate policy, than talking about those who are future victims of climate change. Thus, the Christian People's Party has shown a face in the debate with which I was unknown, until I entered the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1529	The President may have to assume that knowledge of parliamentarianism is supposed to be equally distributed in the Chamber, but otherwise good speeches are welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1532	I will make a few brief comments on things that have come up in the debate. The first thing I would like to comment on is that the representative, Mr Skumsvoll, said that the transitional scheme with green certificates was unclear. That's wrong. There's been a suggestion from me about that. I also briefly explained that in the post I made. I have also replied in the form of a letter to the committee in Stortinget. So I think that's exactly what I'm talking about – and exactly what I'm talking about. Then the representative took up relations related to wiring. When I heard that post, I became a little uncertain about how the committee marine thinks the decisions and processes the committee had in the previous period are to interpret. The reality is that in the last period we had a separate case about what goes online. There was a discussion in the committee, and there was a discussion in the Chamber. So the online policy in Norway has recently been treated. It has been said that cable should be considered in different projects. It has also been said that wiring is most topical when one comes down to the lower voltage levels. The reason for this assessment is the complexity of cabling, its cost and also the implications of cabling in relation to the environment. Then the representative Solvik-Olsen takes up several themes. The main point is well linked to whether the projects are blue-yellow or red-green. I have to say that I am pleased with renewable projects, whether they are due to decisions taken by Bondevik II, Bondevik I or the red-green government. But I would say to the opposition that if they think that the projects carried out in the previous period are due to a policy implemented before 2005, then the rhetoric should change somewhat in relation to the criticism that comes from the same team.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1543	The reason I'm drawing again is because the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen's articles. My perspective in the debate has not been to peck at the Zenterpartiet or SV, although my opinion has been that they may have wanted to go a little further than the Labour Party. I may be wrong, but that's my impression. The reason why I want to remind the Storting of some good proposals that the Christian People's Party has is that I want to be a constructive opposition, which can help to pull the policy even further – that we get an even better environmental policy. And when we make good suggestions, I hope that the government parties can look at the proposals – consider them, and then, if necessary, support them. What we have seen in this budgetary procedure is that, at least in the view of the Christian People's Party, we have had many good proposals, which have been voted down again and again. That's what I think is sad. I had hoped that we could contribute – in common – to attract Norway further. I would like to point out in particular a proposal for a representative to be discussed, which the government party can look at. It's about Statoil's oil sand production in Canada. I think that through that project, Norway, as a majority shareholder in Statoil, also keeps up a production that we don't want. I had hoped that we could rather go a path where there would be less fossil energy, instead of more, as we put it. I'm proud of my own party. The day I joined the Christian People's Party was just after the party had left the government on an environmental matter. We know that if we do not take responsibility for our climate change emissions, it will affect future generations, and it will hit the world's poor hardest. It is one of the most important values – and the reasons – that I am committed to today. When the representative Serigstad Valen goes hard to attack my friends, I choose to call those who are some with me on different questions, friends. I do not need to stand up and defend the Progress Party, although I have noted a good point of light in this debate. But what I need, rather, is to defend the Right, and so far the Left, who, together with the Christian People's Party, was involved in pressing the climate negotiations – when there was climate agreement – a few more things went on. I'm proud of that. I'd like to wish we had even more of the good suggestions that the Christian People's Party had, and that the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left had together. But I notice that the Right was a progressive party in those negotiations, and I don't perceive the Labour Party to be as progressive as it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1565	I note that no one from the Right has come up and explained how it should be possible more than halving the budget line of the Directorate for Nature Management without having a dramatic impact on Norwegian environmental policy, and not least on the natural diversity, which is the major issue internationally in 2010, nor on how it should be possible to do so without breaking Norwegian law, since it is obviously necessary to get rid of employees at a pace which, fortunately, is usually not possible in Norway. This is a real disagreement. This is a fundamental, wide-ranging disagreement in environmental policy between a broad majority, including the Progress Party and the Right. For the Progress Party proposes to cut $7 million. kr to the Directorate for Nature Management. I am against that proposal, too, but it is within the tastes that it is possible to discuss in the policy. 70 million. On the other hand, the institution as a whole is to be undermined. I recommend that we try to discuss these big, important, fundamental disagreements, instead of what I see as very small disagreements between friends. I said in my previous post that the Christian People's Party was 99.9 pst. agree with the Government. I'm going to correct it, because now we've got a mathematical formula for it: Christian People's Party is 99.4 pst. agree with the Government. Now I've just run the budget out of hand down there, so it's possible that it might be the decimal wrong, but the Christian People's Party proposal involves $25 million. kr in change in a budget of 4.3 billion, and it's going to be about 0.6 pst. So it's 99,4 pst. agreement with the Government. My political infant baptism was the conflict with AKP had one trait, and it was that the closer you seemed to be to them politically, the stronger words they used about you. [[m-l]] The biggest traitors were the closest. On the other hand, those who were completely on the other side of the policy did not have such strong words for them. I would recommend that we try to discuss it in a different way, in the form of a debate between friends, where we can improve one another, the parties of government and the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are fundamental to all the essential issues of environmental policy. So I want to answer the two concrete questions that Line Henriette Heimdal raises. We're definitely going to consider the question of a crash message about the outdoors. I have not taken a decision on this and now, but let's assess it. Outdoor life is incredibly important. I also fully share the view that non-governmental organisations are central in the field of outdoor life. It is also true that over the last few and three years, the Government has given priority to natural diversity and the natural environment as the main areas of activity in the Ministry of Environment’s budget, and that there has therefore been no room for a similar increase in outdoor life, which could otherwise have been natural. Of course, if the Storting wants to have a review of the funds available to the Ministry of the Environment for the distribution to non-governmental organisations – there is little money – the Stortinget will have such a review in the form of a budget or in another way, so that there will be an opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1576	State Council Solheim does not agree, he would like to have a comment from the Right in respect of it cut off at the Directorate of Nature Management, and it is to be given to the Council of State. Of course that's $70 million. kr is a lot, but we're going to take it as a signal that the Right is concerned that we're going to have effective operation in our administrations and directorates. Furthermore, we often think, from our point of view, that the Directorate of Nature Management tends to regulate in detail many things, including matters that are widely discussed in municipalities and at local level. It is clear that a directorate that in some cases until those degrees is inside and regulates detail, for example. the disposals by local authorities may have potential to downgrade resource use. I think the council must take this as a signal. We see that there may be challenges in doing such a big cut, but take this as a signal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1583	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has spoken twice earlier in the debate and therefore has only 1 minute available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1586	I am pleased with Solheim's arithmetical skills and also the introductions to the two questions I raised. I want to quote my last sentence in the main post: «But we in the Christian People's Party, we shall continue to press on from the outside of the Government – for the SV and for the Centre Party to have a greater impact on climate and environmental policy.» This is what I finished my post with, and Serigstad Valen says that he has seen a new face on the Christian People's Party in this debate. Yes, but this is the face of the Christian People's Party. We want to push this government, as we've done before, in a more environmentally friendly direction. This was said for some hours back, and I like to repeat it, for this is the true face of the Christian People's Party. We have an administrative responsibility at the bottom of our policies, where we want to do international action, where we want to do national action, and where we want to facilitate green actions in people's everyday lives. It is the vision of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1598	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is now given 1 minute to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1601	I was slightly lifted by the Council of State Solheim's insistence on getting an answer. In the debate this time, and so far in the climate debate, the opposition has tried at the same time many times without having received it, and therefore I have four questions that I hope to get an answer to. One concerns the principle of allocation of allowances to industry after 2012: will new industry in Norway receive the same allocations of allowances as the EU, not necessarily in terms of a level but, in principle, receive equal or equal allocations? So to the principle of biofuel tax or alternative fuel tax. What kind of principle would you like to apply? Should it be the same for biodiesel as for bioethanol, or should it be different for the different things? Then the Workers' Party has called for an exemption from CO2 costs for aluminiumworks. Will there be a policy that the Government will actually pursue, or will it be most salutary after the Progress Party has been denied that question many times in this Chamber in the previous period? Finally to Statnett and cable. When did the Government give new instructions to Statnett to wire at a level different from what they had done before? Statnet has always been told to assess wiring, that's not new. The question is, has the borderline been changed in the last 18 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1617	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and now gets 1 minute to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1621	Then I am pleased to note that what we have come up with in the last speeches from the Christian People's Party is clearly a full support for the environmental policy of the Centre Party and SV – as I understand the last considerations of the representative Hemdal. We really appreciate that, and we're grateful for that trust. But then I will come back with a friendly advice on the pedagogical approach of the Christian People's Party to exercise influence on the government's environmental policy: it's probably not always gone to play up to debates about who has done the most, because that debate loses the Christian People's Party. It would have been far more constructive on the day the climate summit in Copenhagen starts, to spend more time on what Mr. Hemdal did in his last seconds in the post, to talk about those affected by climate change, and the responsibility we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1628	Several have not asked for the floor for the debate in Case No. 1 to 3. [[Votation, see pages 803, 813 and 815]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1645	This is an administrative audit carried out in good time by the National Auditor before the Storting's goal is verifiable, i.e. in 2020. We think that on the Committee's part is very good, also because it provides good opportunities for necessary adjustments in time. The starting point is of course the Storting itself, first in St.meld. No 8 for 1999–2000 and then for St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, where three national performance targets were elaborated, which I will refer to the Stortinget: ‘National performance objective 1: the annual loss of protected cultural memory and the cultural environment as a result of removal, destruction or decay shall be minimised and shall not exceed 0,5 per cent annually by 2020. National Performance Objective 2: Peace and peaceful cultural heritage and the cultural environment shall be secure and have a normal level of maintenance by 2020. National performance objective 3: the geographical, social, ethnic, economic and temporal scope of the decision-making cultural memories and the cultural environment shall be enhanced and a representative selection of cultural memories shall be achieved by 2020.’;» I'll link some comments to this. Firstly, cultural memory protection is extremely important. Lose here is not possible to replace. Thus important identity, knowledge and history are lost for the nation for all future. This management audit and subsequent examination within the Committee provide the Ministry of the Environment with a marshalling ground to put cultural memory protection higher on the agenda in order to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinge. It is about better methodology, better registration, better control and better interaction. The report points to clear gaps, which together make it relevant to ask questions about whether the objectives of the Storting – all three – can be achieved. There are major deficiencies in the registration and systematics. There are some and some major shortcomings in the management of responsibilities between different levels of government. In addition, the National Auditor points to the lack of will or ability to use the tools put at the disposal of the Storting and the big community to address these challenges. It has been pointed out by the Ministry of the Environment that during the years that have passed, considerable funds have been allocated to this. That is quite correct, but it further underlines the importance of having good record-keeping and good management systems to make good use of this in a sensible way. I would also like to refer to the comments made by the Committee and to the other motions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1665	It is an important matter that has been raised by the National Audit Office, namely a study on the management of national responsibility for cultural memories. Let me stress that both in terms of management, in terms of the preservation and use of fortifications, cultural-historical buildings, peaceful and protective buildings, account must be taken of the history, tradition and culture represented by the facilities. We need to focus on knowledge and experience, and we need to have a fair balance between use and protection, so that we guarantee both cultural and all-manhood rights, depending on what kind of cultural pearls we're talking about. In addition, the national performance target No. 2, which was mentioned here, that peaceful and peaceful cultural memories and environments shall be ensured a normal level of maintenance by 2020, a performance target that is related to the other two performance objectives. Minimumisation or, for that matter, prevention of maturity can also be ensured through sound and sustainable use and business activities, such as: The Ministry of the Environment has a overall and national responsibility for the peaceful and protective constructions, installations and other cultural memories and a responsibility to ensure that the decisions of the Stortinge in this area are put into practice. But the current departments also have a great responsibility. Let me mention that from my time as the leader of the Defence Committee of the Storting, I remember how we strove to secure the cultural-historical pearls that closed fortifications and other cultural-historical structures in the Defence – of course in the wake of great destructions that left them empty. Oscarsborg in Oslofjorden was in danger of decay, but is rescued by sustainable commercial operations, which hold the necessary respect for history and for the monument that Oscarsborg is, within ethical frameworks. Not everything can be commercialized. I don't think even the most thought-out market librarian would find it particularly opportunistic or relevant to suggest Akershu's fastening sold to hotels – it has a brilliant location and could certainly collect a lot of money – or that the Troldhaugen would be a restaurant. We do not want such a development in Norway. Nevertheless, there is reason to ask: Where do we draw the limit to ensuring the use of such facilities? Some of us have been to Warwick Castle in England – a castle and a residence in Warwick purchased by the Madame Tussaud group and turned into a very lively museum on a commercial basis. Shakespeare's birthplace in Stratford-upon-Avon, just a few kilometers away, has become a reinvigorated business. As a Shakespeare enthusiast, I think the place is quite terrible, while admitting that it provides good information about the author and his time, and certainly is important for school classes and students. I think the keyword must be to avoid commercialization without having ethical and historical frameworks for the business. Finally, let me refer to the Committee's optimistic summary, which is still a good chance of achieving the strategic national objectives of cultural memory policy by 2020. I also expect the Minister for the Environment to take note of this, for this is important to identify the tamp of the 2009 Culture Memory Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1684	For a conservative party as Right is the management and preservation of cultural memories an important task. If you read this national audit report – and even more: this position – it is my conclusion that cultural memories are badly managed in the department they are currently under. So I'm not going to talk about moving to another department, because it's not the Stortinget, but I'm going to say that with this attitude it's clear that cultural memory tasks are not a high priority in the Ministry of the Environment. I have been on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs for the previous period and have been involved in examining some management reports that partly criticise ministries – for two reasons: one is that the objectives set by the Storting are too ambitious. The second is that the problem is being solved very poorly. And I have examples of both cases. But the criticism that is addressed in this position, I see as one of the strongest things I have been able to share in expressing criticism of a Council of State. It's e.g. Rarely does the Storting find reason to remind the Council of its constitutional responsibilities. I quote in the setting, on page 13: ‘The Committee finds reason to recall that the Ministry of the Environment is constitutionally responsible to Stortinget in this field.’ The field concerns the preservation of Sami cultural memories where the allocation goes to the Sameting. The merger is not constitutionally responsible to Stortinget, but it is, on the other hand, the Minister for the Environment. In this area, that is, Sámi cultural memories, the Committee says it is critical, and it points out that there are no overviews or routines to detect or register Sámi buildings. In both national cultural objectives 1 and performance targets 2 and 3 the review again shows that there is little overview, that there is no use of available instruments, and that there are no plans in this area. Finally, the Committee: ‘The Committee points out that the Ministry of the Environment has a superior and national responsibility for the peace and protection of buildings and a constitutional responsibility towards the Stortinget to ensure that the Stortinget's decisions in this area are put to work.’ So this is the second time that a unanimous committee, which in other words also includes government parties, is involved in reminding the Council of State of its constitutional responsibilities. That should be taken seriously by the Council of State. I don't even want to challenge him to answer -- something the council itself was busy challenging the opposition to do -- but I'm going to challenge him to take his constitutional responsibility for this area seriously, or to get it transferred to another state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1705	I was a little surprised that Stortinget’s Vice President did not want me to answer in Stortinget, but I will do so experimentally. I agree that there is considerable criticism from the Riksrevision and also from an overall committee. This is, of course, a criticism that we need to take very seriously — and also as a spur to better dealing with these issues in the future. Criticism also comes at an appropriate time, because it has dissipated in the government platform. In the government platform there are several points that have their background in the Riksrevision findings. This applies, for example: that cultural memory management should be improved in line with the administrative audit of the National Audit Office, just to mention something. I agree with the Committee that it is necessary to implement different types of measures to ensure good target achievement by 2020. Of the basic things I've noticed especially, the need for good professional databases and systematic management data. Otherwise, I have noticed the particular issues raised in connection with the management of Sami cultural memories, which were raised by a previous speaker here. These are issues that have already been addressed. As I pointed out in my reply to the National Audit Office in April of this year, the work on clarification and questions related to the limit of compliance for Sami buildings is under investigation in the current year. In the 2009 letter of award, the Riksantikvaren has been given the task of clarifying the criteria for Sami buildings covered by the Cultural Memory Act. In the light of its findings, the Ministry will give rapid priority to clarifying this issue of law. With regard to the other issues related to the future position and role of the Sameting in cultural memory management, the Ministry of the Environment is awaiting further dialogue and follow-up after the discussion by the Stortinge on the principle of common policy in June. Ten months have passed since the Riksrevision completed its data collection. In view of several of the Committee's comments, the Ministry is well in the process of planning measures to follow up on these issues. I will therefore come back to Stortinget with a detailed plan for the follow-up to the Riksrevisions report at a later stage. Finally, although there is a basis for criticism in this matter, there is no basis for Per-Christian Foss' strong words. I would like to remind you that the budget for cultural memories has been drastically increased under the red-green government – there is much more money for these measures. But of course, money is not enough, and good governance is also a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1737	Full participation and equality for all, regardless of their function, has been an important goal for all political parties since the early 1990s. The aim of the National Audit Office's study, which we have been dealing with today, has been to find out how far we have come to achieve this goal. Thus, it has been tried to explain whether the availability of public buildings, facilities, means of transport and outdoor areas is the same for people with disabilities as for the rest of the population. It has also been looked at how government instruments are managed in this area. It must be noted that the availability of central and important social arenas is still insufficient – especially in public buildings, public transport and outdoor areas, there is a significant gap between the objectives set and the results. In order to clarify the matter, the Committee shall be responsible, inter alia, for: Surprisingly, none of the state-owned properties per year. Today, all universal design requirements are met, i.e. availability for all. It is particularly important that the Nav offices meet the accessibility requirements and that the state, together with the municipalities, prioritise this important upgrading work. In the case of public transport, the Committee considers that municipalities and public transport companies should focus primarily on facilitating vehicle and station/stoppage conditions, so as to increase accessibility for disabled groups. It is also obvious that there is a job to do in order to get an overview of the work done. The report shows that the departments involved are largely lacking information on the status, development and achievement of targets in terms of availability, and it is therefore important to develop relevant indicators and reliable statistics. To put it clearly, if you're not sure where you are, it's hard to find the way to the goal. A single committee considers it necessary to build stronger inter-sectoral coordination in order to achieve better results in this area. I refer here to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality being given a role as a driver and coordinator in the work. This, together with a new action plan and the fact that the administration of the Discrimination and Availability Act is now concentrated in one department, is of the opinion that the Committee could contribute to strengthening this policy area. The establishment of a national indicator system could facilitate increased knowledge of the state of the field and the impact of measures taken. So here the new State Council in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has an important job ahead of it in ensuring good progress in the further work on the completion and implementation of the indicators. In the end, I would also like to point out the importance of continuing to focus on user involvement, as this is essential for establishing good solutions in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1750	It is important for the National Audit Office to follow up on how public construction, means of transport and outdoor areas are organised for people with disabilities. This is how it follows the clear decisions and intentions of the Storting on anti-discrimination and accessibility and sees how the State instruments in this field are managed. It is particularly important that public properties meet universal design requirements – which is the least we can require – in addition to the transport sector, where accessibility is still very diverse in terms of trains, buses and trams. Anyone can see that. In the case of hearing and visual impairments, the lack of readable and audible information constitutes some of the major barriers. The size has several times taken decisions to facilitate people with disabilities. Important decisions were also taken in the previous enlargement period, in fact late in the previous enlargement period, and there is work going on in the government apparatus to follow up. The majority adopted an anti-discrimination law which was twofold. Firstly, there was a ban on discrimination against persons with disabilities, but the second part of the law is a law of imposition. The law imposes the design of construction, railway stations, tram stops, etc. so that it is accessible to all. A regulation is being worked on here, and an action plan has been drawn up. That action plan was presented by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality Anniken Huitfeldt as late as this year, in spring 2009. In connection with the amendment of the Planning and Building Act, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working on a regulation. I have been informed that there will also be an indication of which construction must be taken first and foremost in a planned work to ensure universal design. This could be done, for example, by: be such that we should start with school buildings and with the outlying areas of schools, so that we contribute to safety and accessibility, and that children and young people with disabilities are given the same opportunities as others. An anti-discrimination law is a necessary basis, but it is the necessary requirements, with deadlines for universal design and adaptation, which show that we are serious. But deadlines are very important in return. The National Audit Office report shows that the departments involved are largely lacking information on status, development and achievement of targets in terms of availability. The Committee therefore considers it important to develop relevant indicators and reliable statistics. No matter how much is now done to ensure accessibility and universal design, it is totally unacceptable that no building in the State Building Mass met universal design requirements at the time of the National Audit Office's investigation. Apparently, new buildings are still being built without taking into account disabled persons. How is that really possible? And that 40 pst. construction companies in 2008 say that they do not know universal design in the construction sector are almost hard to believe. Finally, the Committee is also concerned with user involvement. Here, however, I think there is reason to stress that this is one of the few areas where there is a comprehensive system of user involvement at all levels of administration, including municipal and county levels. User competence is an important part of the overall competence of the Council of the State for the Equality of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1763	I also take the floor in this matter, although Marit Nybakk has just done so, because I think it is very necessary that we collectively make a heavy, political mark here. The fact that this report from the National Audit Office shows is that significant groups in society are actually exposed to direct discrimination every day. The fact that in a modern society like Norwegian we have so many physical barriers that prevent many people with different physical disabilities from participating in work, education and leisure is a major discrimination problem for us. Of course, the size is very aware that this is a shared responsibility for the whole community – for government, for greatness, but of course also for municipalities and counties. It has already been said, as stated in the statement: on several occasions, the Storting has given very clear signals, and has taken decisions to facilitate the functioning of disabled people in society. Against this background, the Riksrevision studies are not an uplifting reading. Five years after Storting's treatment, with strong leads to efforts to improve the conditions of people with disabilities, state buildings, as has already been said, cannot refer to a single building that meets the requirements of universal design – not one single building, nor the new ones. The availability of NSB's services is still insufficient for many, as is access to several Nav offices, of all things. As has already been said, the Riksrevision study focuses on the availability of public works, transport and outdoor facilities, i.e. relations under political control. This gives us an extra responsibility, but it also gives Storting an extra opportunity to do something about these conditions. The most important thing about the study, however, is not to reveal the weaknesses; we all know well from most of the circumstances. The most important thing is that the report shows the scale of the problem and sees the many obstacles in the context. User organisations play an important role in improving the conditions of people with different disabilities. It is important that the different user groups are heard. The need for adaptation is, for example: very different for a wheelchair user and one who is blind. I note that the cooperation between the administration and the organisations is better than it was a few years ago, but there is still a basis for closer cooperation between the authorities and the organisations. We know that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is responsible for cooperation and coordination. Coordination is a particularly important key element in this policy area. There is a need for action in most departments, which makes the task challenging. If we are to achieve the goal of a much better accessibility for people with disabilities, it requires that departments systematically monitor the state. It is not only necessary that the departments take action against their own sectors, but also that they take responsibility for their cross-sectoral design. A major advantage of the National Audit Office’s approach to the problem complex is that it runs across sectors. With this report as a background, I now expect the Government to take up the challenge and develop binding plans, with clear deadlines, to improve the relationship in this very important field. Furthermore, I assume that the Riksrevision will follow up the report and come back to Stortinget with a new status report for the work before the end of the current ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1776	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[See page 816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1793	The size shall now examine the examination by the National Audit Office of the implementation of the procurement process and the follow-up of the contracts for the provision of ambulance services by the Health Central Norway Regional Health Agency. Let me first say that as a new representative of the Control and Constitutional Committee, I have been given the opportunity to go into the reports produced by the Riksrevision. I take note of the thoroughness that is being demonstrated by the National Audit Office, and as a representative of big business, I find it reassuring that we have a national audit that does such a thorough job, and that is in possession of a good competence. As regards the law on public acquisitions and related regulations, the purpose of the Act is to contribute to increased value creation in society by ensuring the most efficient use of resources in public acquisitions based on commercialism and non-discrimination. The regulatory framework should also contribute to a high level of integrity in the public sector so that the public is confident that public procurement takes place in a socially sound manner. This is also something that creates an interest and trust that makes it possible for as many as possible of those who can notify their interest in assignments and deliveries to actually submit tenders. In this current case, we have been presented with alarming examples of these important rules – and objectives – being broken. The National Audit Office says so strongly that the investigation shows that health mid-Norway in this acquisition acted in breach of the essential requirements of the procurement law and that there are several infringements of the principle of non-discrimination. A single committee, like the National Audit Office, looks seriously at the many breaches of the legislation in this matter, and especially when we see this in relation to the extent of the procurement process. This is an estimated sum of DKK 1.6 billion for the entire 2008–2012 contract period. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Health and Health in the current year has imposed on regional health businesses additional measures to improve the quality of the procurement process and that this will be followed up in the context of the 2010 business meetings. An overall committee believes that these are matters that must be of very high priority in the coming period, so that operators can be confident in the future that they will be treated in the same way and in line with the existing legislation. Indeed, a credible tendering process is crucial for the proper providers to be able to perform the very important services provided by the ambulance missions for all our citizens, wherever in our long-range country they live or are at all times. The Committee has gathered on comments and conclusions, but the Right has its own comment, which I assume they will explain themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1808	There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the Conclusion, but I want to focus on one thing the rapporteur did not do. It's about how difficult it is around, especially in the districts, for small entrepreneurs to start businesses and be providers of services to the public, and so experience that the public acts unprofessionally as purchasers. It makes it difficult to be an entrepreneur, it makes it difficult to be an entrepreneur, and it makes it difficult to be the one who tries to create jobs around the districts when you see that the public, who is to be the buyer of this service, acts so unprofessional. There are many who have experienced at this stage that small works of life have been destroyed because of poor treatment. It has consequences that are not just about our health care, it also has consequences for the whole process of thinking about the public as a professional buyer. Here we are talking about small businesses in the districts, who provide services, who need long-termity in their agreements, and who have been treated terribly poorly here. I think it is important for the Minister of Health to think that when instructing in such work, a professional, public office that is a buyer must also facilitate long-term social entrepreneurship based on public services – something we really should be very pleased about when doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1817	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1834	The main objective of the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:13 for 2008-2009 has been investigating the extent to which the Ministry of Knowledge discharges its responsibility to ensure that we have a high-quality childcare facility. We who have children in kindergarten are aware of these feelings every day when we deliver our child to employees in kindergarten: if the children's needs are met, they receive a good follow-up, they receive proper food, a proper pedagogical scheme, and – not least – they are safe, etc.? For modern society where mother and father are most often in full-time employment, a good and efficient kindergarten sector is absolutely essential to get the wheels of social machinery to go around. There was also some background when the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party joined forces in the first half of this decade and negotiated an agreement to ensure increased development, needs coverage, lower prices and equal treatment in the sector. After all, all parties have taken part in this common promise, and that's good. For eight years in the Swedish Committee on Culture and Family Affairs, I have had the pleasure and challenge of working on these matters. It's been both exciting and interesting. As stated in the Committee's comments, the Committee agrees with the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Education that there are several positive developments in the kindergarten sector. However, it is also clear that the study has revealed some weaknesses that may help to weaken the achievement of the objective of a high-quality childcare facility. So there's a job to do in this field. To mention some of the challenges: Some kindergartens have a high level of sick leave and low ground crew. One in ten kindergartens have too few pedagogues, and little resources are allocated to measures to improve their skills. These were some examples. However, the Committee has taken note of the measures put in place to address the challenges. We look with concern at the information about that 23 pst. the day-care centres have never been subject to the Children's Hospital Act and the Committee asks the Ministry to provide for more frequent supervision activities. I mentioned in the introduction that I myself have children in kindergarten. For my part and for almost 50 pst. by other parents in Norway, this is about a private nursery. We had never been able to achieve the objective of needs in the kindergarten sector without the private kindergartens. Even in SV, I think it has come to that conclusion. When it is the case that private kindergartens represent an estimated half of our country's nursery services, it is particularly important that we treat them properly. It is quite central to these kindergartens that the estimates of grants are correct and that the grants are timely. In this field, unfortunately, there have been many examples of errors, delays and deficiencies. I will finish my post by reading from the end of the setting in this area and ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to the following: ‘Like the National Audit Office, the Committee would stress that the Ministry of Knowledge has overall responsibility for a sound, simple and transparent financial system that provides predictability for all those covered by it. Furthermore, the Committee wishes to point out the unfortunate fact that, in particular, the private kindergartens experience the calculation of grants as complicated and that the allocations are seen as unpredictable. The Committee considers it important that the Ministry and public services focus on intensifying guidance and assessing ways of making regulation simpler and more transparent in order to ensure that the basis for the calculations is clear and clear.’;» So simple and so clear is the recommendation from the Committee. With this I present the vote, which is unanimous from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1865	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1886	I believe that the matter we are talking about today is a very important matter that concerns a lot of children. We know that maybe up to 50,000 children experience being bullied every week. Behavioral research centres say that in recent years there has been a dramatic increase in the number. We adults, after all, have a law that we can use. We have a legal system that we can use, and we have help through trade unions and all the other people who can help us in everyday life, while kids don't seem to have the same legal protection. Maybe it's not just through laws that you can do something either. Why it's important to fight this, it's not just about children's everyday lives, but it's about preventing all the problems you can face later in life. We know that six out of ten children looking for the psychiatric service for children, BUP, actually have a bullying problem in their everyday lives. I don't think there's any magic solution – if you had, you would have gotten rid of it. I think the most important thing for politicians is that we are constantly aware of the problem, and that we are constantly able to have a press and a public debate that this is important. I have asked for input into this interpellation and received very many, both by e-mail and through other social media. What's left of many adults is that they're talking about us as adults creating safe and acceptable communities, and adults having to see children. The fact that children – both those who experience bullying and those who are bullying – are not seen is perhaps the worst betrayal we make against the kids. I think there are a lot of measures that are needed, and I've been planning to frame someone up. I think, perhaps, that all of the most important thing that I would put at the top of my list if I were to make a list is about the role of the teachers. The teacher is the leader in the class situation. In fact, as a manager at a workplace, you have a responsibility for what work situation you give everyone around you. The leadership role in the class situation, I think, has been overfocused lately. In the past, it was not to be the leader in order to ensure that bullying, part of teacher training, has not taken place, even though the committee has now said in several treatments that it should be. I believe that the best prevention measure is good, safe teachers who are safe on their seas, safe on their subject, and safe leaders in a classroom. It is those who create what parents talk about when they write to me about safe and acceptable communities. But we also experience teachers as bullies, and many requests I get are about the good kids who are being bullied by teachers. I think these are bad teachers also in their subject. It's teachers who exercise their authority by stretching down on someone in the class when it suits themselves. I think we have to admit that this problem actually exists. We have to recognise that in the ultimate sense, such teachers should be regarded as unfit. But we have to create fair systems to pick them out when that happens. Maybe, through a good teacher training, you should have actually picked out such teachers. I think one of the reasons that bullying is increasing is that it is perceived as very difficult for parents to say from. I have received a lot of enquiries about parents who are doubtful that it is not possible to say from and get something done. You often experience a school that goes into the trenches. For a long time now, we have seen that the municipal school offices have been closed, and the principal is made the highest authority under the local government. It's taken away a term that too many people look like an unnecessary bureaucracy, but which I think is about having a management also of principals. I think the fact that we've lost the principals in a lot of municipalities makes it harder for families to take it up. Many of the enquiries I have received from Oslo are about the fact that you have thought that you have shut your head in the system after contacting the school, but once you have gone a little further, you have felt that you have been taken seriously. In many municipalities you can't go a step up, nor can you raise it to a higher level. There are a lot of bullying programs that are made. Many of them work well in themselves, but there must be no sleeping cushion, because I also have many stories from schools that have followed bullying programs, but have not managed to combat bullying. As one teacher wrote to me, bullying programs are one of the many tools you have, and if you don't maintain that program all the time, it's of little value. Governments have brought out students and to look at how we can use the Children's Ombudsman. We in the Left are a bit critical of the ombudsman inflation that happens in society, but students are a group that does not have the right to vote. So they have a greater right to get an agent than others. What I think is important is to look at how to manage to set up teams that can help, that come from the outside and in and help in such a conflict situation. I think a student agent who's good can try to do that job. So I'm also positive to look at how we can use the students more actively in conflict management. Digital bullying has become a new and important area to combat. As we work for ordinary peoples and common debate culture in our analogue world, it's still a little bit longer before we manage the digital world in the same way. Systematic work is needed here from all parties to get this done in a good way. Not all parts of School-Norway are able to be in the front when it comes to the view of young people and their private lives and how to use the Internet. I have to say that I'm a little scared about the new computer systems associated with school, like Classfronts, etc., that treat students' privacy as if it were nothing worth it. When you talk about the importance of preventing interference with privacy, and the importance of respecting the individual in the digital world, it's strange that the school is a double-communist -- you'll find that the school likes to infringe the same privacy, to the same child. I'm a little critical of believing that we can make jus that will ensure all of this. I believe that we need to make good parental routines for how parents should address this. It must not be the case that parents have to be resource-powerful in order to get through when something happens. Then I have to say that I have faith in some of the old-fashioned things. I believe that Norwegian school has been weakened without what I experienced as very large lightning conductors in my school yard when some problems occurred. It was about the health sister, who was there three days a week, to which one could go in when something had happened, who had a completely different approach, and who also had an authority in the classroom in a completely different way, and could take care of things in a new way. It was about janitors – a little big, staute guys, wide over the shoulders – who believed in when someone needed to get to, and it was about special educators who could go in early and actually work with kids, instead of the system we have today, where special educators mostly work with paper, while unskilled assistants are the ones who are going to work with kids. I think we have to say that the school clearly has the greatest responsibility, but that we have to create systems that make it possible when the school goes into the trenches, someone has to be able to come in and help. Maybe it means a few more multidisciplinary teams. Maybe that means good practice. Maybe it means, as the Council of State says, to figure out more what Section 9 actually means. I think it's primarily about having to lower their shoulders in school when they get criticism, and go into each situation and see what they're going to do. People have to feel that their legal security is taken care of. I'll mention three small examples in the end. The first one is outdoor area. We're constantly ignoring that many schools have smaller and smaller outdoor areas, which are less and less demanding for the children. Having a large enough outdoor area is actually quite preventative in terms of bullying. The other is kindergartens. We have now built many kindergartens, and we see that there are many unskilled in kindergartens. I think we already at kindergarten level have to start teaching kids how to treat each other properly. Perhaps spending more time on quality and on kindergarten professionals is also an important part. The last one is dealing with conflicts between kids. Using conflict advice to discuss and resolve conflicts is a good way to teach young people how to deal with conflicts in a different way than to settle each other as individuals. Conflict work, I think, is also important to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1925	I very much appreciate the recognition of words in the interpellation of the representative Trine Skei Grande and am very pleased that the question of bullying and learning environment is something that can accumulate across the party boundaries. I think that's very important if we're going to get as far as it's possible to get in this case. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus that bullying is unacceptable in our school. I also agree that a very important element in the fight against bullying is that leaders at all levels take their responsibilities seriously. My message to leaders and teachers is very clear: bullying must be caught right away. The school owners, on their side, must ensure that all schools for which they are responsible provide a safe learning environment for the students. In the future, we will put in place measures that will strengthen the management function in the fight against bullying at all levels. Let me start with the school owner level. In 2010 and 2011, national supervision shall be exercised to ensure that the school owners and the responsibility of the schools under Section 9a of the Training Act are followed up. This will involve a significant measure and will help us to have operationalised the provision to ensure the psychosocial learning environment of our students. Supervision is a measure of its own, for supervision must function in such a way as not to occur until each deviation you get is closed, and that you have actually learned for everyone who needs to learn in such a situation. In addition, we will set up a group based on the county offices to review the experience of a representative sample of bullying that has come to the county officials and which is thus issues where parents and students have found grounds to complain about school treatment. We want to gain knowledge about what characterises these difficult issues, in order to put action here. In the most difficult bullying cases, there is reason to ask questions as to whether the student’s legal certainty is well taken care of – and as Trine Skei Grande was also involved in his post – we get too many stories from parents who feel that they have met the wall, and that is not acceptable. I want to initiate an independent legal assessment of these issues as well. If the law is good enough, we need to ask ourselves a question, and if there is a need for a student ombudsman scheme, we also want to get a closer look. I am not sure whether the solution is a new agent or whether the scope of the Children's Ombudsman can be extended. I think there is a need for parents and students who do not reach out when they contact the teacher, the principal, the municipality or the county council, to have a place where they can go, where they know they will be helped to uphold their rights. National supervision will also be very important in relation to the schoolleader level. Here I would like to stress that the new principal's school is very important. We have an OECD study from 2008 that shows that school management has a significant impact on students’ learning outcomes and well-being. First of all, it is about being responsible for setting common objectives and inspiring joint efforts to achieve the objectives and assessing whether the objectives have been achieved. It is also the principal responsibility of the school manager to give clear signals that bullying is not to be accepted and that it should be followed up immediately when it occurs. National efforts have been made to train headmasters starting in the autumn of 2009, and the training is initially directed towards new principals, i.e.: those who have been in the post for less than two years. In the long term, it will also include Vice-Chancellors who have not received such training. The training course is scheduled to take between 18 and 24 months and is to be conducted while the principal is at work, and the study should have a duration of 30 study credits. The goal of the principal training is precisely to support the executive tasks of the principals, and the training given to the principals requires a better understanding of the role they have. The five areas of competence selected are: Learning outcomes and learning environment management and administration cooperation and organisational building, guidance from teachers development and change in relation to the leadership role All of this is moving towards taking responsibility in the situations where the interpellant is concerned. This is a requested study. We had 300 seats from the fall, and 223 principals have been admitted to the principal's training – most of them are new employees. The interpellant also highlights the need for teachers as clear leaders in the classroom. We know that this is very important, both for the learning outcomes and for the learning environment. Teachers who engage in good relations with their students create safe and good environments. This is also why the changes we have now made in teacher training are important in terms of working towards a good learning environment and combating bullying. Teacher training is now completed by two courses, one for 1–7. steps and one for 5 to 10. steps. It will focus on greater professional immersion than before, but at the same time it is important to stress that education is given a new and strengthened subject called pedagogics and student skills, which gives 60 studio credits. It, along with more practical teacher training, will also shoe the teachers to be the leader in the classroom that Trine Skei Grande is in. We also need more knowledge about bullying. We have some studies, for example: The student survey, where very many students around the country are asked. The eye-catching thing about the student survey is that it shows stable bullying over time, a little independent of the political focus. But the student survey shows that one in 20 children reports being bullied every week in Norwegian school. What we don't know much about is how long these relationships are. If bullying lasts for a week, and then some adults have intervened and ended it at once, it won't have the same consequences, as if bullying lasts year in and year out, and you can't get away. That's why it's just taking quick action so important. We are now going to carry out a special analysis of the student survey, such as: shall look at the characteristics of high-level bullying schools over time and what characterises schools with low levels of bullying over time. In addition, the Education Directorate will carry out a qualitative survey of pupils, teachers and school leaders in a selection of high-reporting schools on bullying and discrimination. The professional and pedagogical skills of teachers are very necessary in order to carry out offensive work on the learning environment and the fight against bullying. That is why I want to draw attention to what is now happening on the continuing education front for teachers, with whom the Stortinget is well known. Then, from the school year 2009-2010, we have also established a pilot project with guidance corps in West Agder and Hordaland. It's an organized guidance team of four-five supervisors. They will move out to improve the ability of school owners and schools to carry out their own development work on the basis of the information obtained from national tests or the Student Survey. I don't think we ever get there that we can say that now we're rid of bullying. What we have to do is just the nitite work over time, which the representative Skei Grande was also in, that you have to work with the learning environment all the time, that you have to have the attitude of knocking down bullying once and for all. Then I might disagree with a few things that Trine Skei Grande was in. There is a need for conflict advice in schools, but bullying is not a conflict between students on which to argue. Bullying is an assault. Bullying is that one who is stronger than another is violating a fellow student. That's why it's action to end. Conflict advice can be used when there are conflicts, where one party and the other are indebted. There's a lot of work that you can do about outdoors, leisure activities, and the situation of bullying in, out and out of classrooms -- all these things can be taken into account. That the health sister, the janitor and other adults in a school can have very important functions for the learning environment and in bullying matters, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1977	I actually agree with a lot of what the Council of State does. I'm very happy for a lot of what's being done too. I'm especially pleased with what's done in the field of Vice-Chancellor Education. I started my soul as a teacher at a school where the principal was the shooting weekend for everyone, and who had open the door out to the canteen, and we teachers knew that if we had done something stupid, we came to the office to Lucia after a while because there was someone who said from. It was a very good management for us as teachers, but it was also a good shooting weekend for all students. There is a slightly open question about ombudsman, and my clear advice to the Council of State is enough to look at how we can develop the Children's Ombudsman, so that it gets a much more important role in such matters. I think it's important to make routines without red tape for teachers' everyday lives. We must not make routines – which we see in Norwegian school now – which means that teachers are so busy documenting their innocence through documentation that you cannot solve the problem. We want to make routines before anything happens, so we have a simple rotary book for parents about how it's best to take this up, in what order and what should you say? We should also have a simple turnbook for other parties, but we should not red tape teachers everyday, so that teachers are so afraid to be taken for something that they finally just do things to have their backs off, as we discover in many other areas of school right now. So I think bullying is more complex. It's not just asking people if they've experienced it or not. I agree with the Council of State that there is a difference here. To experience being bullied for a few days and that adults fix it – it can actually be a positive thing to notice that it will be fixed, and notice that you are also able to fix things. It could be something you can grow on as a human being. There's a difference between bunched, flirting 12-year-old boys who don't know how to do it, and they're like regular harassment. It may also occur at a higher level in the school system that bullying and harassment occur as a result of conflicts that have accumulated over a long period of time. The reason I mentioned the conflict council was that some parents wrote to me in e-mails that for adult students this has been conflicts that have accumulated over time and that have ended in harassment. I think we're going to have this whole aspect with us. In fact, it's also important to get hold of the clusters, flirting 12-year-old boys and maybe teach them how to do this, or tell them what is not acceptable to do. It is also important that adults do in their everyday lives. I think we're going to deal with the whole issue, but see that it's going to be done in very different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e1992	Fortunately, we are not in the situation that we have to search with light and light to find something to disagree about in such an important matter as this. The way Skei Grande talks about the usefulness of conflict councils, I fully agree. We just have to have the whole scale. It's better to work really systematically with a better learning environment -- we know that it's just positive factors. It improves the learning environment in all sorts of ways. It creates secure citizens for society in the future. It's important contributions that play together. Then you can start conflict counseling and mediation in conflicts that arise. If you're there having a serious bullying case in front of you, there's only one thing that matters, and it's resolute to put an end to the actions that are going on. We have to bring this whole spectrum. So I think the schools must have as their starting point that when kids report that they're being bullied, they're telling the truth. It's not something you boast of or you're interested in. Probably they've been waiting too long. It's about admitting yourself that you're in a vulnerable social situation. Those who are a little daring and think that this can't be such a serious situation, are usually wrong, and those who believe in the kid are usually right. When it comes to teachers like bullying, the picture might be a little bit more complicated. I guess I've also been exposed to relatively obsessive students who claim that the teacher is bullying, while what the teachers are actually doing is practicing class management and demarcation. But on the other hand, it is far more serious to be subjected to bullying from an adult than to be exposed to it from another child, because it is such an incredibly different relationship of strength, and because it will be so incredibly much harder to be believed. These are particularly difficult and complicated issues. Then I have a call for parents – they have a very important place in this, as regards how to talk about and respect other children, how to talk about and respect teachers, and how to support the job that teachers do to get a good working environment in their class: Don't let the conversation around the dinner table become a daily entertainment and discouraging of the teacher who is trying to do a job in a school, it's not a drag. And it's not certain that the kids are always right when they describe the general learning environment. If they report bullying, there is another type of case. But also all parents in school who don't ever get in direct contact with bullying because they're neither parents of the bully or of the bully have a big responsibility to help support the job that teachers do to get into a good learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2003	First, I would like to thank the representative, Trine Skei Grande, for addressing this important issue in Stortinget. Bullying has been a theme in this room before, and as long as bullying exists, it continues to be a theme. As school politicians, one of our most important tasks is to design a school that makes the students complete compulsory schooling with good results. Many of those who experience bullying at school lose much of their childhood. They are afraid to go to school, they feel lonely, and the concentration around schoolwork is naturally gradually absent. No one should have to feel alarm and uncertainty at school. When a person experiences being afraid of going to school, the ability to learn is also weakened. I agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that a crucial element is class and school management. During Barna's Question Time a few weeks ago, some students from Charlottenlund elementary school in Trondheim told me how they thought you could prevent bullying. Their advice was that teachers should thank and prevent students from being bullied, especially in their spare minutes. We're good at imposing more problems on teachers than they strictly have. We must not forget that the teacher's main task is to learn away. But at the same time, there is so much more that we wanted the children to get through school. Among other things, the teacher shall prevent and prevent bullying. There are no simple solutions to prevent bullying. All good measures at local and central level could help prevent this. I think fewer students in each class and a clear and clear school management who take care of the problems and not just close their eyes are the key. Skistua school in Narvik has addressed the problem. Throughout the fall, bullying has been on the agenda, especially in a so-called campaign week. Then all the children walked with green bracelets where it said ‘all on the track against bullying’. Throughout the year, there is a bully-free zone at school. The Olweus program is at the heart of anti-pubbing work at school. This involves simple things – like the teacher who inspects the free minutes wears yellow vests. Bullying must primarily be prevented. From the earliest possible point of view, students must understand what bullying can cause. Many suffer from mental problems and end up outside society in some way later in life. It is unacceptable that someone is subjected to bullying over a long time without anyone stopping it. The Training Act makes it clear that teachers and school leaders need to address the problem once a student tells about bullying. It does not help to wait and hope that it passes. When parents contact the school and are concerned about their child, they should receive help quickly. Many children don't dare tell their teacher that they're being bullied, because they're afraid that it can make things much worse. Children must also learn that bullying is not allowed in their school, and that if they see that someone is being bullied, the teacher must be warned. The invisible bullying, the bullying that is impossible for the teacher and the school management to see, has become a bigger problem, which was also in the interpellant. Children and young people send SMSes with content that supports the recipient and the network has become a new arena for bullying. For those who are hit by this, it might well be as bad as physical bullying. Images posted on the Internet that are accessible to everyone are difficult to remove and can persecute you for years to come. With the increasing bullying via SMS and online, more and more parents feel the action lamb. Where's the limit that your kids can have a private life? Close cooperation between school and home is central to the prevention and prevention of bullying, but information work in particular when it comes to networking is essential. This can be challenging for teachers and parents who may not know how to use the web very well. How are they going to intervene in the students' network usage? ICT is, as everyone knows, a basic skill, and that requires teachers to have knowledge of the negative aspects of the digital world. When it comes to this, I don't think basic ICT skills are enough. The network of students should become a central part of education. There will probably be a need for some schools to acquire knowledge and help from other institutions. Schools should also be responsible for the training of parents in the network for children. Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting this on the agenda. I look forward to the further debate and to seeing how the Minister of Knowledge action presented works in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2033	I would also like to thank Trine Skei Grande for focusing on this. I have seen that this debate has been cross-political in the last few months. We have all, from all parties, chosen to focus on this matter. I'm incredibly happy about that. We're talking about the same measures, we have many of the same proposals. I also think that we will come up with a lot of good solutions together. I'm glad too much of the work is going on. I wish we also had suggestions about even more. But it's a good start, and I'm incredibly happy about that. I would like to tell you in the debate about my own experience from my home country, because in high school I went to, we had huge problems with bullying. You can find examples that the principal is trying to shift the problems and say that there is no bullying in his school. The headmaster at my school went out in the locals and said, "We have a big problem with bullying at our school. We need help with that. We need the help of parents to talk to the students at home, and we need understanding and support for the work we want to do now. The first thing we did was we set up a mediation board. I see the difference the Council of State is thinking about when it comes to conflict counseling and bullying, but it's an important element that the students who put in the Board of Students were in the mediation situation if the students who were in the bullying situation, even wanted to. It was so that if someone felt bullied and told his school manager or teacher, it was said from to the mediation board. Then the mob victim could either get help from the teachers or his fellow students who also put in that mediation board. Then both parties were summoned, both those who bullied, and those who were bullied. They sat down and got a arena where both parties were allowed to tell their version of the story. What we often saw in these cases was that a lot was misunderstanding, like I heard you said it about me, that she said you said it, and you solved a lot. In other cases where it was actually about bullying, where it was about overtramp on purpose, one got each of the parties to write down their explanation. You had to sign a contract saying that you should not bully, not throw away bad words and things that both had to sign. They were told that if this contract were broken, they would be notified home, and it would have serious consequences for their grades of order and behaviour. It was very rarely broken. We also have a student and apprentice agent in More and Romesdal, which it is optional to set up today. She has experienced that several parents and students have come to her and told of bullying episodes, which she has taken up with the schools. The problem is that she has no penalty options. The problem is that the headmaster of the schools she can contact to tell you that bullying is taking place at school, can deny the problem and choose not to deal with it. She's missing sanctions. Now there is a job being done to prepare this with a separate student representative. I believe that an immediate measure we can at least implement now is to coordinate those we already have. I think 15 out of 19 counties already have a student representative. We need to get national coordination and coordination of what they do, what they focus on, possibly give them greater authority and sanctions in the situations they work with. The problem is that it's only in high school today. We also have to get it to primary school. At the same time, it's very important to look at the teacher. The teacher has a very important role in the classroom. I think a strong leader, and focusing on it in teacher training, is incredibly important. Having a strong leader, and also getting the teacher back the authority in the classroom, is very important. Because I also believe that much of the bullying among young children comes from the fact that children are insecure on themselves and on others. Much of that is the responsibility of parents, but today the school also has a certain function in learning values and becoming sure of itself, both professionally and in terms of social issues at school. I think class management is incredibly important to strengthen the teacher's authority and prevent trouble and anxiety, and to help the students deal with the problems. The representative Anna Ljunggren was also involved with several teachers. I think it's very, very important to get more adults into school. Today, we have teachers who act as guardians, as psychologists, as health nurses, as conversationalists, while the role they should actually have, as a knowledgeist, may fade a little. I think it is important to get more adults in – more protective caregivers, more environmental workers – who can work specifically to improve the learning environment for students. Otherwise, as I said, I would like to thank you for focusing on this. I believe and hope that we all – all the parties – will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2056	The interpellant shall have great praise for addressing this theme. The Committee shall also examine a draft representative for bullying. The Minister of Knowledge shall also be commended for putting bullying on the agenda of the Ministry once again upon accession. However, Kristin Halvorsen's problem, or challenge, is that the effort against bullying has not been prioritised high enough by her predecessors. Attitude-making requires endurance, and bullying cannot be combated by jerking and grabbing or ship perch policy. Therefore, it is a pity that the government has not been able to hold up the pressure after taking over in 2005. The Bondevik II government took a very important initiative with its bullying party, the front of the then Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and the knowledge minister Kristin Klemet. Allies with teachers, parents and students, school owners, children’s representatives and researchers succeeded in raising bullying at the top of the school agenda in 2002. The work on prevention of bullying went in parallel with the development of the Knowledge promise, because there is a link between the absence of bullying, a good learning environment and the benefits of training for students. The present Minister of Knowledge never let the matter go. Until the government shift in 2005, regular meetings were held to monitor developments and to assess further measures to combat bullying. I remember the discussion when the Bondevik II government launched the manifest and our zero vision against bullying. Many were more concerned at the time with ridicule of zero vision as an impossible goal than of the real seriousness of the matter, that too many children and young people are growing up and schooling is completely or partially destroyed by bullying. Many parents feel apathy and lack of support from the school, and that's not how we can do it. We can't tolerate a little bullying. The ambition must be to end all bullying, no matter how demanding this will be for the parties involved. The school, school owner and department all have an obligation to ensure that the Training Act § 9a – also known as the Working Environment Act – is actually complied with. Everyone – and I stress everyone – is entitled to a physical and psychosocial working and learning environment at school that promotes health, well-being and learning, such as the learning poster in St.meld. No 30 for 2003–2004, Culture for learning, it expresses it. To put it another way: all students are entitled to meet a school that motivates learning and positive mastering experiences. The manifesto against bullying resulted in a large-scale mobilization against bullying and was a clear indication that bullying is a totally unacceptable behaviour. The first years after the manifest, we were able to track a positive development. Today, we experience that this positive trend may be broken, and development may seem to go in the wrong direction, with several cases of bullying and other types of bullying, through networks and the new digital world. Bullying engages many, and a number of valuable local initiatives have been taken. There are several groups on Facebook about the same theme. In common with many of the comments, it is felt that bullying is not taken sufficiently seriously at each school and in each municipality. From this point of view, much indicates that there is still a need for clearer driving rules in such cases, and clarification of the possibilities for complaints between students and parents about meeting the wall with the school. I have two questions for the Council of State: Does the Ministry of Knowledge have an overview of how many bullyings per year end up requiring students to move to another school? And in the extension of this: does the ministry have knowledge of whether it is bullies or victims who in these cases have to move? The interpellant will receive my full support when, in the fight against bullying, she also draws attention to the teacher's authority in the classroom, and how management is exercised in Norwegian schools. There can be no doubt that the fight against bullying must first and foremost be addressed in the classroom by the teachers and the school management clearly indicating how the students should respect and deal with each other. All unacceptable behaviour has to be switched on, and I am very pleased that the Council of State here today has been so clear on that very point. For future teachers, teacher training is key to clear teachers with a high level of classroom management competence. Can the State Council today assure the Storting that the new teacher training will give sufficient emphasis to this very skill of tomorrow’s teachers? And does the Minister of Knowledge have a strategy for how teachers who are already in school can be even better able to promote a positive learning environment in the class and good relations between students?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2079	I think this is an interesting and important interpellation, and it's a broad interpellation. That's good. And just like you, for example. the issue of waste is a whole that needs to be understood and reflected over and that needs to be improved in the next round in order to reduce bullying. In this way, the Minister of Knowledge also gives a good answer, precisely because the Minister also attacks this in the same broad way. On the other hand, I myself would like to address a partial problem that the interpellant, Trine Skei Grande, presented and thought a little bit about. This is because the headmaster is about to become a story around the municipality of Norway and the county of Norway. In particular, one has received as one has asked, when one around the municipality of Norway introduced the two-tier model a few years ago. One would just take away these post holders – in and of course also these specialist committees – as technical manager, head of care, school manager, etc., because there was too much subject, there was too much sector, there was too much ‘participation’. The answer was that we were going to have the mayor, preferably with numbers on – the mayors 1, 2 and 3. Then we were going to take the schools and spread them on these municipal heads, and then we were really going to get the overall approach. And yes, I also belong to them as a total prize, dreaming of totality and thinking that we have too little totality, but at the same time I have always been skeptical about this, that one should show mistrust in the subject and professionalism, the same scepticism that I heard that the interpellant also had. Let me just stay at this with the whole thing. When Lillehammer introduced the two-level model — the inland one — in its time, against three votes, Lillehammer made a very interesting exception when it came to school. The majority said that at school there may still be a need for something overall, and they defined what is called the Lillehammer school as an exception to the two-level model, where a scattered kindergartens spread across municipal heads, and then, after all, kept a certain professional whole when it came to school. Now that knowledge minister, government, big business, everyone, focuses on management, not least on principal and principal -- this is so good -- it might be even more important to think about whether not just these leaders that we are now sending on courses, on training, which is good, will still be allowed to work when they come back to their municipality after they've been on the school bench, and join just such a professional unit, or whole, usually with a head of training or a head of school at the top. Because being a principal is often, as I think everyone understands, a lonely life, almost a lonely fight against a lot of different groups -- there's a lot between bark and wood. Right then, a clear to work alone, working well as a leader, is a dependent on perhaps at the same time being involved in such a subject, as we had to a great extent in the past. So maybe we up to this new focus on leadership, including on the principal, should just take a new reflection on this that it should be a faculty and a head of school, which of course should not shut itself in and become self-sufficient, but which is going to interact with the society and the community of which the school is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2092	The theme of bullying is very important – 50,000 children, said the representative Skei Grande. Maybe it's also 50,000 adults. I don't think I'm alone when I say I know someone who's been bullied, and I know someone who's been bullying. I want to go to work so drastically that I want to say that bullying is a type of tumor that we have in our society. It's hard to take on, and it evolves if it doesn't stop. Own experience of bullying can make it hard to talk about this topic, but maybe that's exactly why we're going to talk about it. I don't know what we as big-time representatives can say, if we can put our hands on the heart and say, "Have I done what I can to prevent bullying? Have I done what I can as a schoolmate, as a teacher, as a mother or as a colleague in the workplace or in politics? Unfortunately, I believe that the fight against bullying in school is just as much about ourselves, about how we as adults relate to each other. For children are born into a world without bullies. Kids learn to bully, and where do they learn that? And what do we teach politicians children in school, when hoarseness, suffocation, ridicule and strong words about other people are often used in politics? It's not always as beautiful. So bullying is related to the society that we all share in creating every day. The same is true of how we talk about our fellow human beings and how we treat different groups, whether they are women, men, neighbors, Africans, farmers, Muslims, priests or colleagues. Therefore, this is not just a matter to be taken into the classroom, as the Right Representative said. On Thursday I talked to Per on the phone for a long time. Per's a pretty young man, always nice and good at school. But Per became a bullying victim. Per contacted me online earlier this autumn about bullying. He asked us to be better off watching bullying at school. He was bullied from the last year at high school. Per's story of pushing, pushing, slinging, and hard handling throughout youth ended with poor character and not only that, but self-esteem and the desire for life disappeared. Fortunately, Per has gone well. He's now a pretty young man, who got help from child and youth psychiatry, as well as that he got a whole new start by moving out for a while. But it's still there. Unfortunately, Persian history is not unique. I have, however, been concerned about what can be done. The Minister of Knowledge has presented a number of measures to be taken. But the most important thing is perhaps that bullying is constantly on the agenda, and it should be commended to the interpellant for having contributed to it. The rapid response to bullying is very important, but the interpellant also raises the question of what to do to strengthen the authority of the teachers in the classroom. That's an important question. I am therefore very pleased that the new teacher training recognizes that knowledge of classroom management is important, and therefore the lessons are doubled to pedagogics and practice. The authority of the teacher is important, but the most important thing we have to do is to give the teachers and make sure that they own, that's courage. Teachers, principals and we other adults have to dry up. It's not always as easy to detect bullying. It is also not as easy to stand up to young people who are affected. It also requires courage to stand up to parents who feel overwhelmed and will go in defense, or to meet parents who don't care at all. We also have to give the students the courage to say from. The fight against bullying is an adult responsibility, whether we are teachers, principals, parents or politicians. We also have bullying teachers, who have been involved in the past, and these principals have to take a special responsibility towards them. These must also be confronted and removed if they do not change behaviour. These include: to make fun of students and really has nothing to do with classroom management. I am pleased that there is a cross-political agreement to put bullying on the agenda. I expect that it will be a topic that we will often have the opportunity to discuss in this room. In this way, we will also be reminded of our responsibilities as adults. This is not a them and us-debate, this concerns us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2113	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue. And then I also want to give praise to the council, which signaled that the government would focus on this when she joined. Unfortunately, the focus has been slightly lost in the past, and the result has been that the number of people who have been bullied has increased since 2005. A nationwide survey at the Behavioral Research Centre at the University of Stavanger showed that 28 000 students from 5th to 10th grade are bullied every week. There are 10,500 more students than in 2004, and that's 7,5 pst. of all the pupils in these classes of the year. The increase is particularly high in youth, and there are also considerably fewer schools now using anti- bullying programmes. This shows that the fight against bullying must be waged all the time, and that here it is not useful with rest cuts. I think the interpellation we have here now shows that there is no doubt either that bullying can put lasting traces in children and young people. In 2002, the Bondevik II government launched Manifesto against bullying and its zero vision. As the representative from the Right explained, many people expressed disagreement in the zero vision, and tried to argue with this as a measure. I am glad that in 2009 we have come much further, and that together we can focus on the negative development. But one experience we did at the time when both King Harald and Prime Minister Bondevik held New Year's speech on bullying, schools were offered anti- bullying programs with documented effect, was that the ambitious goals and the constant pressure produced results. While the bullying increased by an average of 10 pst. in the year 1995–2001, bullying was reduced by 30 pst in 2004. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State has said at its inauguration that she will keep pressure and focus on this. Many children and young people need someone to do it at the top level. I also want the plan that the Council of State has launched to be dynamic. I want some development funds for good programs in it. I can mention one, the Foundation Archives, which is really a historical center that documents something of what happened during the war. They ask students questions of transferred importance: What happens when human dignity is threatened? Through it, they focus on both spectators and what's going on, and transfer some of the experiences we have from our bad history, right into the classroom, and to what's happening there. Teachers like bullies have also been focused on. I want it into the action plan and manifest. This is a difficult problem area. But we answer a little too often that we don't entirely believe in it because this can be about class management and that the students don't like the way you exercise authority. We're going to take that seriously, and it should be included in the action plan as a professional point, so we're actually going to figure out how to address this. The council said something very good that I could almost wish for on the front page of the VG, even if it would be to dream, namely, when kids say from behind, believe them! It should have been a headline of all the work we do. The Council of State also mentioned perhaps the best argument, which the Christian People's Party has argued many times, namely why home-school cooperation is so important, that the home positively supports the teachers, the role of teachers and the way of teachers to be, because only in this way can we perhaps get to grips with the difficult situations between teachers and students and rebuild the home. Over the new year, Stortinget will be considering a proposal from the Christian People's Party to step up school efforts in the fight against bullying. I hope that the good and open debate that we have had here today can be continued, so that we can agree on some concrete measures to deal with that proposal. We want clear demands for all schools to have either an anti- bullying programme or an action plan. And then we want a bully in every state -- a place that can be both a driver and can take hold of the stories and situations that get too big to deal with at every school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2131	Fortunately, there is a great deal of consensus in the Chamber about what we are discussing today. That's the way it should be. In this way, I might not be able to go to the pulpit, but I still want to attach some thoughts to the matter. First thanks for this being taken up as interpellation! I also want to join those who thank the Council of State, who have put this on the agenda. If we from this room hold a certain pressure on the state council, and the state council does it further, I have faith that we can do something about the bullying problem. We should perhaps have had this as a matter here in the Chamber at regular intervals, because it is then lifted up and becomes topical – and preferably, as Dagrun Eriksen said, with headlines in the press. It's not that easy to do. There are some thoughts about this that make it a little bit difficult. Often I feel that the bullying debate is about it being right to talk about it, perhaps even bullying in some contexts has become a fashion word that should be included. It can't be, because bullying is cruel. Nor should there be a debate on many practical measures and rules to solve the problem. I want us to work much more on prevention and on the attitude-creating process. I have faith that there must be a culture to find out about bullying. I myself have been rapporteur in a municipality where we were almost shocked by a student survey, where it was made clear that bullying was a major problem among students at a school – and no one had discovered it! But then they discovered it, and then they grabbed it, and then the school came out much better on the next studies. It has to be a culture to figure it out. It has to be a culture to see the problem. There has to be culture to take it seriously and say stop, whether it's happening between students, or it's happening among the bosses at school and the students, and it has to be a culture to become good role models. I'm probably a little skeptical about appointing one or the other, whether it's an agent or something, because I'm afraid that each of us will discharge a responsibility by letting others take care of it. At least that shouldn't be the result. That's why I think we're going to work a lot more on that we all have a responsibility. I have the sense of zero tolerance and zero vision when it comes to bullying. I think that must be the more sunny goal. Everything that smells of bullying must be triggered by a reaction. It's okay to say yes to care. It is also allowed to teach each other how to care, or as one representative said here – simply have the courage to care. Just that concept I have picked from an organisation that is doing this. I want to get into it at the end. I have good experience using MOT, which is an organisation that is not opposed, but it is about having the courage to intervene in everyday life. It is helpful to get from the organisation MOT and other organisations that have similar objectives in their activities. It could be exciting to hear if the Council of State has a reaction or feedback on what she will actually do to include this both in school management and in school life. Here I think there's a lot to pick up, as one can pick up quickly, and that intervenes in our whole everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2148	Bullying hurts. It hurts all parties. It usually hurts whoever's being bullied, everyone understands that. It hurts those who look at, as the representative of the Christian People's Party said. It's incredible what you can get used to if you just get used to standing and looking at it. It's moving bounds. It also hurts the bully. It shows all the statistics. There's a lot of bullying going very badly. It is the adults who are responsible, but not all adults take that responsibility. I don't know how much of this we find in the statistics that some of us in the other committees are dealing with within health, mental health, unemployment and disability, but I can't tell you that we find a large majority of those who have been bullied and those who bully, in these statistics, because this hurts a lot. I was present in Barna's Question Time. What was very clear there was that they were first very concerned about the different ways it was bullied. Now it's not only this obvious plight and piercing that's going on, but also the one that's going on in silence, and that might be more about shutting out, which is very damaging to children, because everyone needs to belong to. They were concerned about how we could prevent it. But the other thing they also wanted was concrete actions. What do we do with this? What are we going to do to stop this now? One of the things that I saw worked in my former career was that the parents of students like the bully had to follow their children, for example. to and from school, and actually make sure that everything was going on properly. It was a rather tough affair for both parents and children, but it helped! Unfortunately, as many have said here, sometimes an ombudsman is afraid of an ombudsman’s order – to intervene in some of the responsibilities of parents. You shouldn't take that responsibility from them. Unfortunately, I have experienced that there have been parents who refuse to accept that the pod bully, who defends such behavior, or who are unwilling to participate in any kind of improvement scheme or any kind of action. Then it may be that there may be a need for a slightly more independent uploader. It is important to strengthen the authority of adults in this work, but it is important to strengthen the authority of adults who deserve it. It's important that we don't create systems that strengthen the authority either of a teacher or an adult who won't help prevent bullying. It is also important that adults are present in the lives of children. There has been a lot of talk about the classroom in this debate. I've always been very concerned with the free minutes and the school road. It is very important that there are people there. The representative Hanekamhaug was concerned with the number of different occupational groups or ‘adults’ that really need to be present in children’s lives in order to be safe and to prevent bullying. Class management has been an important topic, and I very much agree with that. I'm also very happy that the Council of State is taking care of it. At the university of Hamar, there is a professor named Thomas Nordahl, who is very often quoted in school debates. He's very concerned about this class management, and that the teacher should be the head of the class. Of course, some of the things that work best to prevent bullying, because then the teacher becomes a good authority that can lead the professional work of the class. When you have good class management, you also see great improvement in the professional, but you also see great improvements in the social class. I think that when we're going to have teacher training in the cast, this must also be a very important factor at all stages. Being capable in class management is one of the most primary teachers' skills all teachers have to have. It is essential for all teachers to be able to prevent and stop bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2163	I would like to thank Mr Stortinget for a good debate. I think this big business is at its best when there is actually an exchange of ideas about how to work. I think the most important lesson in bullying is that this is something that needs to be worked on all the time. Never have to be let go, and there must never be too good ideas to try new angles. I have also experienced that children can make penalties, as the representative Karin Andersen spoke about. At a school in Oslo, the children decided that punishing bullying was not just for parents to follow to and from school, but that parents actually had to be in school. When they couldn't behave to others, they had to have some adults to take care of. The punishment these children imposed was that they had to take Mom or Dad to school to make sure that they were able to behave to others. That's what I think was a funny and creative way to do this, and it was particularly interesting that there were children who decided that this should be the sanctions against those who had bullyed. I don't think parental responsibility can be stressed well enough. I'm not skeptical that the ombudsman role will weaken the parent role, because I don't think it will. What I'm afraid is that if we get too many agents, we stop getting the e-mails that everyone working on school policy gets. We stop getting stories from the parents, we stop getting stories from the students about what they've experienced, and then we stop focusing on the fact that this is important. We are the representatives of the citizens, but I believe that children have the right to have an extra representative, because children do not have the right to vote. That's why they have to be easier to reach the authorities. I am also very pleased with what the representatives Harberg and Hagen said, which actually expressed a bit of the same thing. Mr Harberg spoke of the importance of the rapporteurs actually asking what the situation is like. Then we come back to what both the representative Hagen and I said, that when we lose a level of leadership in school, the principal's responsibility is just to take care of his employees – not to answer to his superiors. The local government is the superiors. The local government is the ones to make sure that everyone is doing well in school, and if the local government does not ask if everyone is doing well, it does not get the answer either. Then the principal's focus on the work is wrong, because then the principal only focuses on caring for his employees. I hope that the Council of State will now say that she has got many good ideas to work on this matter. I think it's nice to use interpellations to address just such issues where the confrontation between the parties is not so great, but where the need for new political ideas is enormous.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2178	I would like to thank you for a good debate and for the tone of the debate, where we all realize that here we are looking for the tools that work best, and are supporting the work that is going on around School-Norway every single day to address the problems of bullying. So I think that one of the main challenges is exactly what people have been facing, that is, keeping their efforts over time. Because as a school gets a new program started and tries to figure out how it's going to work on this, it's kind of interested in the news. It's focus, the students are busy and the parental committee, etc. is occupied with it. So you've done this, and then kind of comes the slightly sad everyday life. How can you keep focus? It's incredibly important. I think there's some of what happened to this manifesto against bullying as well. The first time it comes, it's a little bit new, it's a zero vision, and there's going to be discussions around it. That Prime Minister Stoltenberg then signs the same manifesto against bullying, does not have as much of the news interest. So one of the challenges in this, which is about the learning environment, is the daily work that makes you have to hold on all the time. But we can help each in our own way to get to grips with and support all the work that is. We all have chairs and opportunities to join in and say something informative about how it is possible to work in relation to bullying. Karin Andersen was into something very important, and it's that there's just losers in mob stuff. The one who gets bullied is obvious one who can experience something that puts marks in life. Those who bully are some people who may be able to cope as long as they go to a class and at a school, but at the moment they depend on getting friends who can volunteer with them and who don't have to be with them for free minutes, they can be very quickly isolated and without the knowledge and qualities that are needed to survive in a society further. And those who go through their adult life and know with themselves that they know about some situations where they didn't intervene, and where they might have been able to do something at an earlier time -- maybe for someone who doesn't have anything special to do with it -- are also losers. The silence that's forbidden in school. But it should also be forbidden for all of us who can testify to it. We don't know how many of them are bullied who are changing schools, among other things. because there is often something you want to do before you have managed to solve a case. The parents think in their dismay that they will not wait for this to be resolved. Now we're giving our kid a new start and we're swapping school -- and that's probably something that's never gonna happen. But it's just this kind of case that the statesmen are now going to help us light up, so we get a little bit more background here. I thank the Stortinget for a very inspiring, instructive and good debate on how we can jointly support all the work done to improve the learning environment and against bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2195	Case No. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2201	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2209	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8-13, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 14–16, from Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 17-20, by Mr Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 21, by Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 22, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1-21 is included on pages 74 and 75 of the vote, while proposal No. 22 is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2250	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2268	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-20, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2304	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–16, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2336	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-13, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e2384	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–7, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e7133	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-07.ana.ud2043e7180	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
