ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e166	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e213	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position on case No. 1 is divided into two sections: first, the Framework Area 3, the Ministry of Culture and then the Framework Area 2, the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. The President also proposes that, during the debate on framework area 3, there should be a debate on case No. 4 and that under Framework Area 2 the case number is also dealt with. Two and three. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, at the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition to this, it is proposed that members of the Government be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each during the examination of the Framework Area 2. In addition, the President will propose that, in both debates, a sequence change be made within the allocated speaking time of up to 3 lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e230	Culture has been in the policy elite division over four years with a red-green government. Culture has been one of the major budget winners every year, and 2.7 billion more dollars will be spent on culture in 2010 than five years ago. But the cultural promise is not just about more money. It's just as much about giving cultural life and volunteering greater recognition and status. We have ambitions to continue to raise our status and further develop Norway to become a large cultural nation. In the next few years, parts of cultural life will face major challenges. The music industry has been struggling for a long time with the illegal downloading of music, and we have not had enough legal legislation to protect copyright. The media industry is in big shifts. Traditional paper newspapers are challenged both economically and editorialally by digital media. Younger readers prefer the network as a source of news over the newspapers, and commercial broadcasters face challenges in a weakened advertising market and more audiovisual content online. The book industry will launch its own digital offer to the Norwegian market during 2010. At the same time, they breathed into the neck of Amazon and Kindle, trying to establish a monopoly on the sale of digital books. Authors and publishers may come in a situation similar to that of the music industry in a short time if they fail to establish a system that respects rightholders while at the same time providing consumers with an offer they can legally use. The Norwegian Tipping magnificence period may also be over. The Norwegian gambling monopoly is under pressure from foreign gaming companies operating online. While the entire Norwegian tipping surplus goes to sports and non-governmental organisations, the profits of the international gambling companies go right in the pocket of greedy investors. In common with all the examples I have mentioned, existing and new technologies present major challenges to the key players in Norwegian cultural life. It also presents us as politicians with demanding choices and decisions. Recently, the Ministry of Culture reduced a public body to look at the press support. Another sample assesses consumers’ possibilities for free channel selection and open networks. In addition, amendments to the copyright law are being worked on. In addition, the bookshop has requested that e-books be included in the new book contract, and that e-books should also be subject to VAT exemptions. We currently have few solutions, but there is no doubt that the future will involve major changes. Voluntaryness is one of the major budgetary gains for 2010. Just before the summer holiday, Regeringa agreed with the Freewill Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association that voluntary payments should be made for VAT expenditure. By 2014, the Culturelift will have to pay an extra SEK 1 billion on a permanent VAT compensation scheme. The first 200 million. kr is in place in the budget for 2010. This VAT compensation scheme represents the largest effort ever made on the voluntary nature of the State budget. On top of this, the Government has changed the key, introduced new sources of income for Norwegian Typing and compensated for teams and automatic income organisations. The conclusion is clear: no government has invested more in voluntary Norway than the red-green government. From 1 July 2010, we will introduce a system of cultural VAT. It will be particularly positive for sport, museums and some other cultural institutions. This means that non-governmental organisations will save half a billion VAT dollars under this scheme. The government, through the Cultural Promise, has chosen to bet wide and within many genres. Our ambition is that the whole population should have access to a rich and diverse cultural life. That's why it's been important for us to spread the cultural crowns all over the country. Cultural schools are important for cultural life around Norway. In addition, the cultural school is an important recruitment venue for future artists and cultural workers. Therefore, the Government will implement a cultural school promise, so that all children who want it will receive a quality and affordable cultural school offer. We do this by introducing state incentives and contributing to a solid local economy. In the 2010 budget, cultural schools receive 40 million. kr extra, which will go to projects to develop a good quality offer. We're increasing the cultural budget by 800 million. kr for 2010. That's twice as much as the Bondevik government granted in four years. It says something about this government's commitment to culture not just about words, but about money. Finally, I will be allowed to draw attention to a mistake in the budget setting: This applies to Innst. 14 S, Roman Numeral Decision V, paragraph 3, under Framework Area 3 in the given version. The text must be adjusted in such a way that new text under V.3 becomes: ‘The ordinary operating grant to the other node institutions shall be allocated between the grant parties by 60 per cent to the State and 40 per cent to the region, as specified. cap. 323 Musical purposes, Item 72 Knutepoint institutions, cap. 326 Language, literary and library purposes; post 72 Knute point institutions and chapters. 328 Museum and other cultural protection purposes, entry 70 National Museum Network.’» Now it's done, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e276	Voluntary activities, teams and organisations, are important for the Municipality of Norway and for Norway as a whole. These do a formidable job. They work far more than what they get paid for and get credit for, even though the representative Gjul was in on the theme and thought that volunteering has good conditions. They get money daily in the form of hard work hours, they run with cakelottery, but they also pay large sums to the state in the form of VAT. The representative Gjul was involved in the VAT refund scheme and that it was a good arrangement. But it's bureaucratic, and it makes it difficult for the volunteers to figure out, and they spend time and resources on this. The government parties operate with DKK 1 billion in reimbursement over a period of time, but when we talk to other volunteers and the department, they say it could be between NOK 3 and 5 billion. What amounts is the representative of Gjul operating with regard to VAT refund?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e285	Just before the summer holiday, Minister of Culture Trond Giske concluded an agreement between Freewill Norway and the Sports Association on a VAT refund scheme, whereby the parties agreed to step up the VAT refund scheme of 200 million from 2009 over a period of five years. NOK 1.2 billion. It's actually the biggest bet we've ever had on volunteering. I have the impression that the voluntary organisations and the Sports Association are very pleased with this scheme, because they see that now there is money in the register – which it has never done before. What I think is interesting to see is that both the Progress Party and the other opposition parties are talking about that they have so much more money at their disposal for the volunteers, but they have to bring the jam on the table. If they feel that there is a need for NOK 3-5 billion, and they do, they have to admit it! This government is not just using words, it's acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e292	I am pleased that the representative Gunn Karin Gjul addressed challenges related to the network in various contexts, including Norwegian Typing. That's absolutely right, I think, too, that we're facing significant challenges with respect to Norwegian Typing. Today we see that there are growing internationally based games, where there are billions of dollars, unfortunately, that are being closed out of the country, and that do not benefit Norwegian purposes, as the representative Gjul so pointed out, and I also fully agree. My question to the representative Gjul is: does she and the Labour Party think it would be a good idea if we challenged Norwegian Typing to expand its menu of games, so that we can channel more of that money into Norwegian purposes, or should we continue to have such a tight framework for Norwegian Typing that this money goes out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e301	We have two purposes related to Norwegian Typing. One is that we should have a strict gambling policy in Norway, and that should help to ensure that we do not trigger gambling dependence. We have had bad experiences, including: to slot machines, which made us have to tighten into this very area. This has meant that we have also made a significant effort to expand the games to Norsk Typing, precisely based on the consideration of those who become addicted to the game. There has also been a policy with which the Right has agreed. The second purpose of Norwegian Typing is to contribute to income for sport and to volunteering. What is important is that we keep the monopoly of gambling just to ensure that sports and voluntary organisations also receive large revenues in the future. The alternative would be that it's the international gaming companies that take over, which means that we don't get money for voluntary teams, organisations, and sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e312	The representative, Gjul, the chairman of the committee, refers to an agreement between volunteering and the former Minister of Culture on the compensation scheme, a system in which voluntary pay-backs have been paid into VAT and which is referred to as the greatest commitment to volunteering. The question then arises: When the representative, Gjul, says that voluntary activity is ‘satisfaction with this scheme’, does the Chairman of the Committee refer to the immediate response the first time the proposal was launched this summer, or does she refer to the actual feedback received by the Committee in its hearings and after the budget had been submitted by the voluntary nature itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e319	An agreement has been reached between the Norwegian Sports Association and the Norwegian Minister of Culture on the scheme. At the time of the conclusion of the agreement on the VAT compensation scheme, these organisations were very pleased that an agreement had been reached, and that finally a solution had been found. What has happened afterwards is that there has been some uncertainty about the device on it. But what I can reassure the representative of Hope is that beyond spring you will come back to find the practical solutions. But what's amazing is that we've finally got a problem solved by a Bondevik II government. It has now been solved by a Stoltenberg II administration, so that voluntary organisations are now compensated for VAT. So it's over NOK 1.2 billion that is going to benefit the volunteer organizations over the next five years. In addition, VAT is applied to culture, which will also be a revenue of approx. One and a half billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e324	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e328	It is not the government's cultural policy that has made Kristian Valen, Øyvind Staveland or Leif Ove Andsnes good, profitable culturalists. It is a paradox that after four years of government and municipal spending on culture has increased by DKK 5–6 billion, almost no research has been made on cultural life in Norway and no critical view of what the funds are used for. Perhaps both cultural workers, artists, bureaucrats and politicians are anxious about what an independent, critical research in this field will show. Is cultural policy just about more money for everything, and too many visions? The Progress Party believes that cultural life itself must present concrete visions, for innovation, quality cultivation and public growth are important. However, we have seen this very little more. After these four expansive years, do we have a thriving cultural life of self-confidence? There's something the government parties bastant claims, and as we heard from the government party representative in the previous post. In some environments we might have it, but beyond the country we'll probably see something completely different. The audience and the audience are some of the cultural life that should have had a much greater focus. A cultural life without an audience is a poor cultural life. I therefore believe that Norwegian public development is an important membership organisation and an important contribution to this precisely. Norwegian public development works for museums to gain increased knowledge about the audience and audience. This is an important part of cultural work. Without the audience, cultural life is a little worth it. This important initiative comes from Bergen, from former Swedish Depositary Representative Ågot Valle, who is also head of Norwegian public development. This is very commendable. In Norway, it is entirely new to focus on this, but not in other countries. The initiative is just coming from the municipality of Bergen, which is involved in sponsoring this important measure. There is some experience from both Bergen and Stavanger, and there is an increasing understanding and curiosity of the cultural offer just outside the people. The initiative has been taken to draw attention to what is happening, and it is important to cooperate on actions to learn from each other. Moreover, it is important from a democratic perspective that everyone has the right and the ability to experience art and culture, and that it is also user-driven. In this context, I would like to stress that it is important to find neutral instruments. The Progress Party has been working for several years to establish a system in which voluntary organisations would not be subject to VAT. Voluntary work and hard work hours are laid down daily. But I think the billion that government parties have set aside is not enough. I see that today's VAT system involves a comprehensive bureaucracy in the form of reporting and storing documentation – this is also on a voluntary basis. It's unreasonable. It should be 100 pst. VAT exemptions. VAT exemptions for books at the last stage of turnover are of major importance for the marketing of books in Norway and are therefore of equivalent importance for the dissemination of Norwegian literature. Zero rates also have a significant impact on the viability of industry actors and are a prerequisite for cultural diversity. The zero rate may be the most important instrument for font culture. VAT exemptions on books include the contents of the book. Although the book is sold without perms and read using new technological solutions such as e-book and reading boards, it is the content for which we are asking for VAT exemptions. I also want to add that people with reading disabilities, including the elderly, will benefit greatly from reading e-books rather than paperbooks. In my view, there is no doubt that e-books will mean a much better availability of literature for groups with read impairment. If e-books are subject to VAT, there could be a financial distinction between those who can afford it and those who can't afford to pay the cost of an e-book, plus 25 pst. It's unreasonable. I'd like to refer you to a poster in the Evening Post yesterday about our cultural heritage. The People's Museum on Bygdøy is on a bare end – we politicians cannot sit and watch such headlines. They reduce opening times. So it'll be less public friendly, fewer guides, worse deals for the audience. It will have great consequences for the operation of the museum. Nor should we forget that the cultural heritage is stored in large warehouses around Oslo – the few objects of the Norwegian Folkemuseum are seen by the audience on Bygdøy. Large parts of the cultural heritage are located in mountain halls. We have to intervene. We have to do something. We can't keep looking at this. I would like to promote the proposal that has been distributed on the table of representatives on this very topic: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case, at the latest, for the examination of the revised National Budget 2010 on the situation of the Norwegian Folkemuseum.’ I hope we can support this important proposal in the Chamber. Then I want to promote the remaining proposals of the Progress Party as well as the proposals that we share with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e363	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to, and the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e368	I think it was interesting to hear the posts of the representative Ib Thomsen, especially that he thinks that the big musicians would have grown if they hadn't gone to cultural schools or received the support that you depend on through cultural life. It's not that you become a great author of yourself. Often it is based on support through local cultural life, which obviously needs support through the Ministry of Culture's budget. What I was going to challenge the Advance Party is the position of the NRK, because the Advance Party wants to privatize the NRK. A report was made this summer that shows that the consequences will be a severe cut off of the radio offer, and TV 2 will have such strong competition that they will have trouble surviving at all in this picture. Is it true that the Progress Party does not want us to have a national public broadcaster, either on radio or on television? Is it true that they actually want us to have a more one-sided media offer in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e375	Media-Norway is facing huge challenges. We see that every day. Those who get dizzy, who have to lay down, are the small radio channels and the small TV stations. In Rome we had the well-driving TVRoman Empire. Everyone thought it was the field reef, but it shuts the doors these days. I am disappointed that the representative is playing the ball on to the Advance Party. We're not in government, we're not in government, but we're taking the problem seriously. We see that the NRK does not have as many concerns as the other media houses do, because they have a safe income in the form of the TV license. They even have advertising revenue. So yes, we want to look at NRK's position in the overall media image. They all have challenges, not least the NRK, and this should be assessed. But when you want to evaluate this further, you should also consider whether there are parts of the NRK that can be split up, and whether there are things that can be done differently. But that's something we'll have to discuss in the committee. I hope that the government parties will also join in playing that ball further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e382	The representative Thommess represents a party that is constantly fronting freedom of expression as an important value. It's an engagement that the representative shares with me. In this context, I therefore believe that it is particularly important that the Progress Party in its programme and in its draft budget is involved in the phasing out of press support. Press support forms the basis for newspaper and media diversity in Norway. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Thommess, whether he acknowledges that the proposals of the Progress Party jeopardize both democracy and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e387	I think the representative meddles with a representative from the Right named Olemic Thommessen. My name is Ib Thomsen, but it's not that dangerous. I was in my previous answer in Media-Norway and the challenges they have. We have looked at the press support, and here I have almost the same answer as I had to the previous one, namely that you have to go through this to look at and review whether you distribute the funds correctly. When the media houses come to the committee and say that they have challenges on a daily basis, the representative must also take these matters seriously. New solutions to this need to be found. So my name is Thomsen!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e394	The representative Thommessen will soon be made visible to the Stortinget. But first we have another replica, and it is the representative Øyvind Håbreek – who thus gets a reply to the representative Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e397	The comments made by the Progress Party in the budgetary position are very clear and very clear. They say they don't want a strongly subsidized cultural life, and it's people's choice to ensure its breadth. But within the sport, it's well known that we don't get a peak without a width, and that the top again inspires the width activity. My simple question to the representative Thomsen is: Does not the Progress Party recognize that we have exactly the same mechanisms in the rest of cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e404	I believe that the representative should take a full look at the cultural budget of the Progress Party. I think he has, too, because we have many common comments about cultural policy. We see that sport has the same challenges as the rest of Culture Norway has – with hard work hours and a lot of volunteer work. I guess most of us who are parents have been involved and contributed to that. So sport is an integral and important part of the cultural life of the municipalities. But I also think that voluntary work in the field of sport should be voluntary, but then as politicians, we have to facilitate it and put up with the fact that there will be no more bureaucracy and that it will not cost any more. You actually have to pay money to the state in terms of VAT in order to do the voluntary work. I'm sorry about that. I think that I and the representative are quite in agreement on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e411	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e414	This year's cultural budget follows the long lines of Norwegian cultural policy and follows up the different programmes of the Government – cultural or intercultural. This is how the Government delivers. But there aren't so many surprises either. The right-hand objection to the budget is not that there are increases. We've supported the rises throughout the previous magnification period, and we're doing it now, at least by this crossroads. What we're criticising is that we think the government has a too bad focus on what's the problem of having a big government funding, and that it becomes one-sided. It means an influence in cultural life, both directly and indirectly, which the Right believes is important to have an active policy against it, i.e. to minimize this problem. We want a spread of power. We want to do this by looking at how to find out about decision-makers in cultural life, how to organise public support – at all – how to make a longer distance between departmental, political and cultural governance. One catch in this from our side, which I hope we have expressed in this year's budget, is a bet on free groups – or the free field. We're talking about the free field within theatres, dance and music, and in and of course also freelancers. We believe that within the open field there is an exciting entrepreneurship, an effective use of the means of cultural life, and not least a spread of power and a great deal of diversity. The problem of freedom lies in two areas. Firstly, this field has not been very priority. In spite of the large, large pledges over the last five years, the free field is still on a very tight grant through the grant schemes. Secondly, the Right believes that the innovation criterion in the Norwegian Cultural Council is a problem, in the sense that the free field is governed by the grant schemes – if not as narrow as a niche, then at least into a limited aesthetic area. If we are to bring forward a free field – be it within dance, theatre or music – it is important that we release it freely, in the sense that we should not bind it up in any aesthetic direction. In my opinion, there should be no problem if a free theater group wants to create a kind of show that you would like to see at the National Theatre, for example. Within the music you have it this way, without any problem in that context. And then it's clear that you have to make a promise that makes room to run over time and in a volume that creates an environment and that creates a real alternative. The basic funding, introduced about three years ago, was a very good start for the main groups. But that was the case, and today I don't think there are more than three–four groups receiving basic funding. It should be a significantly larger proportion. But now there's more of a kind of fire extinguisher in relation to groups, where it gets embarrassing that you don't get a greater long-term. So in this year's budget, there will be a re-priority from the right from the institutions to a whole range of measures in the free area. This is the grant scheme of the Culture Council, the basic funding. This is a pilot scheme for young talent. It's about the Danse Alliance, and it's about a number of free groups that are looking at the 74 and 78 entries. To them, I would also like to make a small comment, which I ask the Minister of Culture to pay particular attention to, and this is about the fact that the Government clearly has a view that you should be strict on a position that is that if you have a post on the State budget, you should not be a potential candidate in the Norwegian Cultural Fund – Norwegian Cultural Council. This has been tried for some years, and we have tried to find flexible arrangements in the Cultural Council to avoid creating the disaster that would happen to the relatively few groups involved. We have a few groups that can be found in the 74 and 78 entries. They ended up there under a completely different condition. When they ended up there, no one thought they would be cut off from being able to search around the system. So that premise has changed the government, and at the same time you should have made a promise for these groups -- either that or you should have moved them over somehow. It's a clean-up that's not done, and it's very embarrassing for them. Another area Right-wing thinks is neglected, is the folk culture area. Again, despite large increases over the last four to five years, the population area has remained a little behind. This is an area we have a special responsibility to take care of in our country, as other countries will take care of their culture. This is about the international re-banking of cultures that it is important to raise. In our draft budget this year, we are once again seeking to strengthen the area of culture through actions related to the Ole Bull Academy, the Bygda Dances, the Folk Music Organisation, now called the National and International Folk Music, Joics and Folk Dances, and some other minor measures. This is important to keep up, and it is important to create a volume that is above one – what to say – critical mass to keep up with a culture that is under pressure in terms of the diversity of modern society, which is otherwise positive, but which can also be a challenge for this field. Then we are impatient to find good solutions for volunteering. I'm not saying more about it in this game. It has also been mentioned in other contexts. The most important field in this period I think is media policy. Throughout the previous period, the Right called for the need to launch a new media policy. This, to put it mildly, has not done anything. The government has simply done very little in that area. In fact, the previous Council of Culture, after holding hands well for four years, has appointed some committees to work on key issues in this, but we do not have the whole thing that we think is necessary to launch a basic new media policy. There should be a much broader foundation and more targeted mandates. The situation in the media is very demanding. Even the largest media houses are not sure how to make money, for example. three years. The financial crisis accepted the issue, but is not the real problem. Here we are talking about underlying problems in a long term that is scary, and it is simply about how to make money on new platforms. It's been so hard so far. The main challenge in media policy is how to ensure that Norwegian publishing traditions continue into a digital age. Here the media houses play a central role. Traditional media policy considerations are based on the democratic role of the media. In addition, there is also an important cultural policy task of producing Norwegian content online in all contexts. It will be a key to caring for Norwegian culture in the future with Norwegian language content. This means that, for example: The cable regime for live images, the subsidy schemes and the regulatory grips, as we are now in the middle of in the case of TV 2, becomes an important part of the instrument over which the policy is based. These areas are not particularly visible in the mandates currently being worked on by the various committees. I guess, among today's instruments, it's just the VAT exemption that the Right puts its trust in. The Ownership Act and the production aid do not mean that we are fulfilling what was the original purpose. So the former Councils of Culture have delivered 18 large-scale messages in the traditional cultural area, and this is what has been happening in most areas. In the media field, he has not delivered anything in particular. This must be an encouraging starting point for the new Council of Cultural States, which I hope will be able to deal with this with a crunch, and that we can enter into a constructive debate on how to solve fundamental problems in the media area that are important to all of us and that are important to the democracy we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e452	The right has suggested that the State should appoint fewer members of the board of cultural institutions in order to disseminate power. The government has done the same thing, for example: in the regional notification, where it is proposed that there may be several regionally appointed members of the board of directors, e.g. the responsibility of regional elected representatives, who know the competence of their region. I'm a little confused about what the Right believes about this. In fact, I've heard right-wing politicians polish heavily against such a change. What's the Right View really?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e459	The right view is that it is important to recruit policy-makers in cultural life as far as possible. There are very different types of institutions we're talking about. There's a big difference, for example. a festival and at the National Theatre or National Museum. That means there's no consistent answer to how to do this. I think we should review all of these institutions. Then we should see if there are professional environments, whether there are some types of owners – Norwegian theatres have owners. I guess the National Theatre didn't have that too long ago, so different environments that would be relevant to participating in such a discussion. As far as regional politicians are concerned, I'm not so sure that's exactly the impact we would have on the top priority list, but I fully agree that regional politicians would probably have a good insight into the trade unions locally, and it's important to raise good people locally. For example: The festivals I think it would be a pretty useful alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e466	The representative Thommessen represents a lot occupied by the minimisation of state ownership. In several municipalities in Norway, Right cinemas privatise with the result that only the major audience favorites are shown. Businesses, as they know, have to make money, and diversity is often at stake. Does the representative Thommes think that public ownership can be an important tool to ensure a wide and diverse cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e471	The state ownership and public ownership of our largest cultural institutions are quite obvious. It has been supported by the Right for all years. When it comes to the picture of the cinemas, I don't quite know it. There aren't very many private cinemas in Norway. I think we might have three pieces. I don't think that's a big option. The earnings of Norwegian cinemas are pretty poor, so there is no alternative operating mode for cinemas in Norway, simply because I don't think we find investors who want to go into it. That's hardly an option. But private ownership is also important in terms of creating diversity, because in private ownership, where it is possible to achieve it, it is clear that other types of decision-makers will be found. You want to build into networks other than what you necessarily do with state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e476	The cord shift is over. I allow myself to ask the representative Thommes if there are any proposals that the representative would like to address?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e481	I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e486	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has addressed the proposals to which the Right is co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e489	Joseph Goebbels must have said: Every time I hear the word culture, I grab my revolver. But it's probably just authoritarian figures from the 1930s that will claim that they're against culture. This is one of the main problems of cultural policy debate. Everyone is in favour of culture, but when the appropriations are to be given, not all are willing to give priority. With the Cultural Promises I and II, this government has shown its own ability to prioritize culture. We're going a long way towards achieving the goal of using 1 pst. of gross national product on culture by 2014. The vow of culture was the first obliging cooperation between the red-green parties. In SV, we believe that culture is not a luxury, but it is essential for the society in which we live to be a good society. That is precisely why it is an offensive cultural policy to have a public responsibility. It's part of our welfare offer, it's part of the welfare state. That is why we have adopted a cultural law that states that everyone should have the opportunity to experience and practice culture where they live. In this country, we're not just going to live off something, we're going to live for something, too. The party of progress appears to be the foremost opponent of the public responsibility of culture. But more market power does not give more diversity in cultural life. It's not that it's the bold, innovative and original projects it's going to invest more in, whose culture is going to pay even more than it is today. Unless support schemes and remuneration schemes become more difficult, it will not be easier for a publisher editor or a concert organiser to release an unknown talent. The policy of the Progress Party in this field is a policy for a narrower and less diverse cultural life and therefore also a worse offer for us cultural consumers. What is now known by everyone has often been narrowed — for example: Anne B. Ragde or Per Petterson. Public support ensures greater width and greater width ensures more peaks. It's like sports. If we're betting broadly, there's a much bigger chance of getting a new top player. Greater breadth and diversity are the best guarantees of increased quality. A rich media diversity is a prerequisite for freedom of expression; it is a prerequisite for democracy and a good social debate. This is too important to be left to market power alone. In SV, we want primarily to increase press support, but we are pleased that it will continue in 2010 as in 2009. Culture School has always been a heart child for SV. That's why we're happy to have achieved an average of 40 million. kr for trials on cultural school offerings in the SFO. Unfortunately, we see that the cultural school recruits far too much from the population, and that there are mainly children of parents with lexicons at home and a lot of cultural capital who use the offer. Here we have a challenge of price and availability. SV's goal is for everyone who wants to get a place in the cultural school. The moment that the cultural school is part of the SFO offer, it becomes free and far more accessible, even for children from other parts of the population than the ones we are recruiting from today. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of having a gender perspective in the field of culture. We've come a long way, but we have a long way to go. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e508	The number is out. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e513	I was in my post that I think Norwegian audience development is an important member organisation for Culture-Norway, which is going to look at how to increase knowledge and how to increase audience attendance. Why does the representative not want to be involved? Why does the representative of SV not want to see the importance of being involved and supporting this organisation, when former representative Ågot Valle is the director of the organisation and sees the importance of it? Why do the SV and the representative not want to be involved? The next question is: can the representative say something nice about the culture that does not receive public support?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e523	I'm a major consumer of a lot of culture that doesn't get public support. Among other things, I have a large CD collection at home with American-produced music – if it pleases the representative of the Advance Party. As far as Norwegian public development is concerned, one of many interesting contributions has been made to this budget. The government is now implementing the efforts of the times to promote culture. There will be more budgets. I look forward to having a dialogue on this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e530	I would like to get the SV's representative to be rescued in relation to equality. In the last few days, there has been a lot of debate about the position of female actors. The director of the Actor’s Association, Agnete Haaland, has, among other things: pointed out major distortions in the possibilities of female actors and the number of roles assigned to them. This is particularly true of older female actors — in short, their position. There has been a lot of demand from the artists' organisations on how to do something about this. The representative was also concerned with this with public funding. Public funding offers some opportunities. In the case of films, for example, the government has said something about equality with those behind the camera. My question is: does the representative think that public funding might be a starting point for doing something about the position of female actors as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e541	I have a burning heart for equality policy, also in cultural life. I share the replicator's view of the equality problem in this area. We lack roles for older female actors. It's about bias in admission to education, and it's about pay differentials, which can be up to 50 pst. between the sexes of cultural life. So my answer to the representative is: Yes, I think we can use public funds. It's one of the SV's heart children in cultural policy, that we're going to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e548	I am pleased to hear the SV representative's warm contributions to the social distribution of places in the cultural school and, not least, the commitment of those who have problems paying self-interest. Not least, I am pleased because we have seen over several years that the Swedish Government has led a policy where the large money has largely gone to broad arrangements for the middle class, and where there has been little willingness to target the arrangements against those who need them the most. We are going to discuss later today a proposal on income-graded rates in kindergartens, but in the budget we now have to deal with, the Christian People's Party has actually put in a proposal of 10 million. kr as a grant scheme for free places in the cultural school. So the question is: why does SV not want to support this proposal – if the policy is to be in line with the post just made by the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e555	I share the relic's commitment to those who have the least in society -- an engagement that my party also shares. But the success story of the welfare state is not a poor fund. The success story of the welfare state is universal well-being that applies to all. I think the way to go about the cultural school is to get it into school, so that it becomes part of the universal well-being goods, and so that it becomes free for everyone in the long term. That's SV's goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e565	Culture gives vitality to both people and society. That's why the Center Party is very pleased that the Cultural Promise is on track, and that during the last period we have increased the cultural effort by nearly 2 billion kroner. Many of the promises have already been made. That is why we have designed even more ambitious objectives in the Cultural Promise II. The Centre Party, and the Government, are engaged by the voluntary organisations. That's why it's very gratifying that volunteering has a raise of over 220 million. kr. Voluntary organisations and sport are glued to many communities. It gives people the opportunity to participate, while at the same time it is important to solve many important societal tasks. It contributes, inter alia, to: to improve health and integration. Volunteering centres aim to facilitate increased participation, local involvement and to create good conditions for volunteering around the country. The centres are the meeting place and the interaction venue for volunteering in the local environment. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Government proposes to increase the grant, in order to both increase the grant to the existing centres and allow the creation of new centres. Free funds are a very well-functioning system that is unbureaucratically organised and manages funds that go directly to children and young people. Therefore, there is a very important stake when the Government also increases the appropriations in this field and now allocates 44.4 million. kr. The government has made a major effort in the voluntary sector. This happens, among other things: through the VAT compensation scheme. This will have great significance for Dugnads-Norway. The government has said that this scheme should be escalated by NOK 1 billion until 2014. We also provide large amounts of money for cultural schools, something that several representatives have been involved in. It will mean a lot too many children around our country. Now you want to expand this out, so that even more people get the opportunity to participate. Every day, a lot of exciting things happen in the cultural field around our country. Hundreds of thousands of Norwegians meet culture every day, either in the form of concerts, exhibitions, sporting events or in the form of culture through the media. I'm sure we agree that this is part of enriching our lives. Cultural life, as large as we have in Norway, is something we have to take care of, and we have to facilitate culture to have good conditions. This government has shown a willingness to bet on culture, and that's something we're very proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e585	Agderforschung has supported a report called Culture and Regional Norway, a survey of what goes on at the cultural pot of the state budget and is distributed geographically. All regions have culture as a field of activity. That's why it was interesting to read that report and see how the state, as the main actor, has distributed its cultural money. The conclusion of Agderforschung was quite clear: although one takes away the big players, especially here in the Oslo area, and the Opera, it is Oslo and the Central East that run away with the most money. It's the hinterland, the South, the West, and the Middle Norway that loses cultural money. My question to the representative of the Central Party is: the Central Party likes to be a party for District Norway. What will the Center Party do to correct this bias?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e592	As in so many areas, it turns out that there is a bias here, as the representative points out. My own home country is very poor at this statistics. We want to deal with this both with the Ministry of Culture, have a dialogue with them, and with the states concerned to see what responsibility lies in each state, and what we can do about getting a better distribution. It's not a good sign when so much of these means goes to the central eastern region. The counties have a responsibility, but it is also important that the central unit, the Ministry of Culture, be involved in taking responsibility so that this money benefits the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e599	If you look at the cultural promise and the history of the cultural promise, you will see – if you have to be honest – that it is actually SV's cultural policy that has been pursued to a particular extent. If there's someone who should be able to decorate themselves with the Cultural Promise, it's actually SV. Where the Center Party has fallen off in the Cultural Lift, it's a little bit hard to see. The centre party, as I see it, has become more and more invisible over the four to five years that have passed, and it is difficult to see what is really the cultural policy objectives of the Centre Party, or what is the cultural policy ambitions of the Centre Party. I would like to ask Mr Nilsson Ramsøy: what is the main concern of the Central Party? Then I think quite concretely. For example, what are the three main issues within the cultural area that the Central Party wants to raise in the period we are now going into?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e607	I do not accept the premise in the question from the representative. I do not accept the premise that only SV is behind this bet, this is an overall government that is behind it. I also do not accept the premise that the Center Party is invisible. I'm not going to go out single points that I'd say we have special responsibility for, but I'm going to highlight in particular the efforts we've had in the voluntary sector in recent years. The centre party is the warmest defender of Dugnads-Norway, so that sports teams and voluntary organisations can live all around our country, and actively contribute to enriching the lives of many. Both cultural schools, volunteer centres and the VAT compensation system have been important areas for us, and there are areas we work on every day to get good arrangements adapted to the individual teams and organisations around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e614	It's nice to say again that I still agree very much with much of what the Center Party is talking about, even though in this period we don't seem to be able to run in two teams and implement much of the center policy together. Not least, I am pleased to hear that the representative of the Centre Party views the voluntary organisations and sport as glued to the communities. But being glued to the communities doesn't have to mean being glued to the state. That is why I want to challenge the representative of the Central Party, first of all, the development we have seen in recent years through the increasingly steering of support to organisations through project support, which leads to the management of the activities of the organisations, and, secondly, a VAT compensation scheme that allows for the withdrawal of the money so that they can be re-distributed from the state's hand, which means more central government over voluntary activities. Is the Center Party comfortable with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e621	The Centre Party implements a great deal of central policy in this government together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party. I agree with the representative that it is important to talk about culture and volunteering, not just about the state and the role of the state. The centre party is concerned that we have a free cultural life, and that cultural life and volunteering develop on their own premises. Then, as the Christian People's Party's representative will surely see, this government has invested enormously in culture and volunteering in recent years. There are very many of the voluntary teams and organizations that benefit. So on the one hand, we are very aware of the role of the state and on the other hand the role of voluntary organisations. But it is clear that it is not useful to release the voluntary organizations completely, because then you release them very much when it comes to money. As a state, we need to be involved in granting money in order for this to work around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e628	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e631	The debate on cultural policy gives the impression that culture and cultural policy are synonymous concepts and that cultural life is something that politicians create and grant. On the other hand, culture is a natural part of a human life and function, and a natural part of the meeting between humans and human communities, independent of political decisions. The Christian People's Party has been involved in raising the field of culture and the allocation of cultural policy in recent years, because we believe it is of great importance. With increased appropriations and, at the same time, stricter governance, the impression of culture is reinforced as a political project. It's an unfortunate focus. However, some people think of the cultural sector as a political arena — yes, as a political project or instrument for achieving specific societal objectives. On the other hand, we find those who regard state cultural policy as a luxury, a dessert, an extra good, which is primarily up to the private initiative, but which the state can afford to support during part-time. The Christian People's Party represents a third way in cultural policy. We recognise the breadth and diversity of the cultural sector, and of course cultural life is as much more than the parts in which the country is involved. We recognise the self-reliance of the cultural sector, its autonomy and the right of artists to act socially critically. Yes, good art can be fragmented, conflict-making, and preferably anchored in the individual perspective. Culture has its own value and is not a governance instrument. We also fully recognise the importance of an active cultural policy and the role of the state in driving and supporting the development of art and culture, among others. through the public budgets. The State has a responsibility to ensure good framework conditions. Under the red-green government, instrumental thinking has become dominant, and the power of the state has increased. The Christian People's Party will increase annual budgets, but give cultural life greater freedom. We will provide more funding sources, not fewer, more support schemes, not fewer, and the Council of Culture action room must be increased, not limited. As far as the last point is concerned, fortunately, I see that the new Minister of Culture is giving good signals in this way. The budget proposes increased appropriations for many good purposes. That's good! At the same time, individual measures are of particular importance for the Christian People's Party. We should have gotten a majority of these to strengthen them further. That's why we proposed $70 million. kr extra for some purposes when the financial position was treated. The importance of volunteering lies not primarily in supporting welfare objectives and other policy objectives. The genuine importance of volunteering lies precisely in its being voluntary. We've been fighting for the VAT exemption for a long time, but we've been voted down several times. The government’s framework model will mean that a number of layers and associations will not be compensated for their VAT expenditure. The Christian People's Party primarily wants a rights-driven model, where organisations are fully free of VAT expenditure. But until such an arrangement is in place, we give priority to subduing the strongest results of the government's arrangement and increasing by 50 million. kr in the scheme. Municipal cultural schools are very important for strengthening the cultural skills of children and young people, and they are essential for ensuring the proper recruitment of cultural practitioners. Unfortunately, the offer varies a lot. The Christian People's Party will have a more equivalent offer across the country, and we want children and young people to be able to attend cultural schools regardless of their parents' economy. That is why we have proposed a new grant scheme, initially of 10 million. kr, which is intended to contribute to several free places in municipal cultural schools. I would have liked to have elaborated on several important issues that we have prioritised in our alternative budget, not least the Frifonds and the Voluntary Register. But let me end by saying a few words about the opera field. The allocation to the Norwegian Opera and Ballet is increasing, and that's good. Like the majority of the committee, I assume that here we will see qualitative growth in the years to come. Well, as important as the quantity, it's strengthening the quality and artistic development. So it's quite obvious that regional and district operations need a boost. It has always been a premise that these should be strengthened in parallel with the bet on the opera in Bjørvika. The Christian People's Party proposed another five million. I hope that the Council of State will contribute much more to lifting this field than has been the case so far. I take up the Christian People's Party proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e661	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e666	The government has put in place a VAT compensation scheme for, and in close cooperation with, volunteering, which will contribute more than DKK 1 billion extra over the next few years as compensation, i.e. for paid VAT. The Christian People's Party says in its budgetary position that this is not the way to do it, and in addition, it's too small. Then I am surprised that the Christian People's Party has increased this post by only 50 million. kr in the year's budget, with an estimated 200 million. kr at the bottom of the Government. I'm going to think that many people think that this is in the shortest position in relation to the rhetorical Christian People's Party. Is not the representative of Hope concerned with the credibility of the Christian People's Party when the party's use of words is not consistent with the proposed use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e673	With the budget we are discussing today, and the proposals made by the Christian People's Party, I am not concerned about the credibility of the Christian People's Party. But I recognize that volunteering is not as satisfied with this budget as it has been given the impression from the government parties earlier in the debate. We have met them at the hearing, we have received telephones, we have received e-mails, and we have received clear feedback from the volunteer that the system is not good enough. There are many issues related to the scheme – that it is too bureaucratic, that there are many organisations that do not get what they think they should have got in order for it to be compensated. Once we've suggested 50 million. it is simply because that is what voluntary action has said that they are lacking in order for the scheme to be satisfactory. So it's a good match, and the 50 million. kr will mean a much easier situation for some of the organisations most affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e681	The cultural promise has led to more money for culture, and it has been very supportive here in Stortinget. It's basically just one party that's given less to culture. The vast majority of other parties have actually granted more. But the debate on culture is not a debate on narrow entertainment. Culture and cultural expressions are, in their ultimate sense, part of our freedom of expression, our culture of debate and our ability to express ourselves in different ways. In its alternative budget, the Left has committed an increase in the cultural budget of some 200 million. kr more than the government has done. I can't go through everything here in five minutes, but I'm going to try to raise three concerns and three additions. The three concerns are related to the Government: The first is what the representative Thommess said about our media everyday, where we are facing a number of major challenges related to digitalisation and that we are using the media and are going to make money on the media in completely new ways. To hold on to old-fashioned legislation, to old-fashioned regulation and old-fashioned collection methods to finance the media, I think, is to do media a great service to bear. Here we need to come up with new regulatory approaches to ensure media pluralism and freedom of expression in our country. The second is volunteering. The representative of the Central Party said here a little while ago that you can't let volunteer go completely. Well, I think you have to let the volunteer go completely. I believe that volunteering has a driving force in itself as it is important that the public should not rule. The left has added 100 million. kr more in the case of the VAT compensation scheme, and I am very afraid that the Government will end up in a very bureaucratic galley that makes it difficult to be voluntary. The last concern goes to the cultural school, which we all agree is good and important. But it's dangerous if you get that device on this -- that you're going to make a template for what's the ideal culture school across the country -- that everyone should do the exact same thing. The cultural school has always taken place and will always be based on local cultural life. It doesn't help if you never have so many good intentions that you're going to have that and so many bad guys out on the other end. If you don't have the good error educators, it doesn't actually help. You have to start with local culture and what it contributes to. If it's true that the best artists are carpenters in the daytime and it's those who might inspire kids to join and start their own bands that they've been dreaming about, it's clear that you can make an ideal for all this to fit into the SFO system. But it doesn't help if it's in the evening they can offer what they want to offer. You don't have to make for rigid systems, because then you lose an incredible amount on the road. The left has three other stakes in addition to volunteering in its budget. It is primarily the free performing arts, which we believe have slowed down under the cultural promise, and it is museums and libraries. I have to say I'm worried about the situation at very many of the country's museums. A lot of what we've seen has been the result of the museum reform we've had in bringing together very large units – much bigger than what was originally the idea of Stortinget. Now it's time to be able to breathe with your stomach, look at what kind of structure we've got, and create a structure that people think it's inspiring to work in, for the evolution we've seen, for example. At the People's Museum, I think I'm scary for the whole museum sector. That is why the Left will support the proposals of the Progress Party today. We have also put forward a number of other proposals that I would like to address, including looking at gambling policy in a more comprehensive perspective. We also have to look at how we collect today's license. It's an incredibly unfair household licence based on the 1950s households, while we know that today's family structure and income structure are quite much more complex than that. We have to get away from the house license. It's part of undermining the entire funding of the NRK. Before we can find a new and more modern way of financing the NRK, it can undermine the entire existence of the NRK and the important role the NRK actually has in Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e700	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e706	One of the major cultural issues is related to the issue of legal and/or illegal download of rights-related material from the web. As a rightholder sailor, I know something about how important it is for copyright women and people to be paid for the work they have in creating art. The left has foreshadowed a view that most perceives as being free from the point of view of providing download over the network. We all recognise that it is a great challenge to find good, user-friendly schemes that also safeguard copyright, but do the Left really believe that illegal downloading is not theft, and that it is therefore not punishable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e715	The left believes that you have to comply with the laws you have, but we believe that today's laws are out of date. I'm amazed that you can stand as a rightholder and see that today's system is perfect, and don't worry that the government actually doesn't take any action to get in line with technological developments, as we see is about to rage from the law. So you can either say that everything is perfect as it is today – we keep our eyes on it and keep our ears on it and later on as if things don't happen – or we can say that we want to make a new law. The left is for copyright purposes, but we believe that a modern law must be created that takes on the reality we are in. It's clear that today many artists lose millions of dollars because this law doesn't work, while the government won't even figure out how to make a law that you can actually enforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e720	First I want to say it's very nice to see the representative Skei Grande back in a cultural debate. The Left has promoted a proposal for a comprehensive review of Norwegian gambling policy and related challenges. In the past, the Left has opened the way for the abolition of the monopoly on games and for the release of foreign players. Is that what this proposal also says that we should simply abolish the Norwegian Typing game monopoly? The consequences of this would be considerable loss of income, not least for volunteering and sport in Norway, if the foreign private actors were to get on the road in this area. Is it that the Left does not think that the income of sports from Norwegian Typing is important?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e729	I also think it's funny to be in a cultural debate, and I think it's good that I get the opportunity to explain this, because this is not the intention of our proposal. Firstly, Norwegian Typing only has monopoly on slot machines in Norway. It's an illusion that Norsk Tipping actually has monopoly. Nor have they, according to Norwegian legislation, other than slot machines. But what we see today is that it's a very big leak of people who like to play, of Internet games. We therefore believe that a legal Norwegian game should have been licensed on the Internet as well. It doesn't have to be Norwegian Typing. There might be someone else. But then you have to demand that some of the income from it goes to Norwegian voluntarism. We actually want with this to generate more money for volunteering, get more control of the games, get a regulation of online games as well, but don't see that Norwegian Tipping, as the only monopoly, is necessarily the only ones who can manage morals in Norwegian game policy. But we want first of all the review of how we can get more money into Norwegian volition, and not less money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e736	The representative from the Left is talking about releasing the volunteer. I also want a free and independent cultural life, and the cultural policy of the last few years has given cultural life greater status and greater opportunity to develop the voluntary aspect while supporting professional culture. The representative Skei Grande's talk of releasing cultural life reminds me a little of some parties' approach to agricultural policy. Is there state support for the Skei Grande representative who believes that voluntary action should be released?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e741	It was good to hear that the Central Party has not been in government for so long that they have forgotten how important freedom is to volunteer. No, I don't mean to be released from support. But what the Central Party must take care of when they are in government with the Socialist Left Party and the Social Democratic Party in the country is that the state money is to govern the volunteer. Voluntaryness shall govern itself. There's a lot of loss on the road if you're going to support volunteering through a bureaucratic and difficult public system. I was actually going to give credit to the Center Party for the first Soria Moria statement, which was quite good at volunteering, which had many good points about anti-bureaucratic, lighter system, less project support, more basic support. The problem is that the Center Party has not been able to implement any of it. There's nothing of what stood in Soria Moria I, you got through, and what I think is sad on behalf of the volunteer, because there were many good thoughts that went down with the first Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e751	Before the 2005 elections, the first comprehensive written document was the three red-green parties, the Cultural Promise, in which the Centre Party had a strong share, in which SV had a strong share, and in which the Workers' Party had a strong share. It has led to a completely new revolution in cultural policy, and the 2010 cultural budget is a historically good budget and is increasing more than the overall increase in Bondevik II. I and the red-green parties are very proud of that. But when the cultural budget increases, there are two important questions we have to ask ourselves: do we have enough focus on quality? And when we wide enough with the cultural life we have? When art and culture become more important to people, it also becomes harder to stand outside. When more children go to cultural school, it's harder for those who don't have the economy to go there. Or take another example: access to the public libraries, which are initially free and open. But we see that it depends to a large extent on what social background you have, whether you visit the people's library or not. So the social perspective of cultural policy will be strengthened in the years to come. In this regard, I would like to commend Ålesund Municipality. Private and public associations have joined forces to give children and young people in low-income families free access to the most popular activities and cultural services in the city. It's important for kids, who can tell the school the next day that they've been in the theater, or that they've participated in a cultural activity that other kids have participated in. I also register a big wish from Stortinget to strengthen the discussion on quality in Norwegian cultural life. And first I want to say that the free field has been given an increase in the last year. I record that some representatives claim the opposite, but when, for example, it does. as regards free performing arts, there has been an increase in it in the last year. I often find it a bit challenging to be able to ask if the priorities that are being set here in the Grand Duchy are political priorities, or whether we are largely intervening in the field of art and making artistic priorities. I am concerned that the Cultural Council must have a stronger position in relation to assessing the arts. That's why I want to go up the gap between what's politics and what's science? But when we want to strengthen the Council of Culture, I also attend a very important debate on power concentration in cultural life. I have given the Culture Council a clear mandate that if they are to strengthen their position, they must be concerned with spreading power, so that the various artistic interests are safeguarded by the Culture Council. I am pleased that many in Stortinget today have mentioned this, and I am concerned that we will get it in time to come. Through the 2010 budget, the government has strengthened the breadth of Norwegian cultural life. It's on film with over 50 million. kr. Many have brought Blåfjell and Knerten in the fall. It is an enrichment for Norwegian cultural life. We've also ensured the operation of stage art institutions and orchestras. Among other things, we have compensated for large increased pension costs. And we've covered three new agreements, for the orchestras in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. The free performing arts and dance grant scheme, the basic funding of free performing arts groups and grants for the dissemination of performing arts have also increased. Important cultural buildings are being planned or listed in a number of locations in the country. Certainly the largest new building is given to the National Museum of the West Railways in Oslo. I am pleased that a Joint Committee shares the Government's assessment that the National Museum should be the country's leading institution for the collection, preservation, documentation, research and dissemination of visual arts, crafts, architecture and design. The 2010 budget also includes funds in relation to a library message and a digitisation message. We'll also bet more on the libraries in the time to come. In this area, we also want to have a discussion on dual administration, because the library sector faces major challenges, not least the digitisation and development of digital services. In this field, there have been unclear responsibilities, and the division of responsibilities between ABM development and other parts of the library service will now be reviewed. We will therefore consider transferring tasks from ABM development to the National Library. Important challenges have also been addressed in this debate related to museums. It is linked to the initiatives we have taken in the field of quality development in the museum sector. In the media policy, the sample to assess the support for the press has now had its first meeting. This is a work that I will follow carefully. We are also engaged in negotiations on public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e774	It's being opened for line change. At the beginning of this case, a five-line debate was adopted at the Council of State and at the Councils of State later in the debate. I have subsequently been made aware that the committee's original wish was six lines on the state councils and the two subsequent state councils. If the Storting can approve it, I am prepared to propose the debate that the Committee originally proposed, i.e. six lines at the Council of State. Can the Storting approve? - The Storting knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e781	I am pleased that the President has listened to the Committee's message. The government spent four and a half minutes boasting of all those who had received funds in this budget, I might want to think more about those who are in a difficult economic situation today. What I and the committee have spent a lot of time visiting media companies, meeting with the media, both large and small, and also with the organisations. They can report back on a dramatic situation, simply because they experience great economic fluctuations and loss of income. We in the committee have also visited the NRK. There's a completely different situation. When the president clubs the decision today, the NRK knows what the revenue will be next year. It's not going down, it's increasing. So they're in a completely different economic situation than everybody else. And what we've been signaled about is hybrid funding of the NRK, where they also receive income from advertising and sponsorship. Is it okay for the Council of State to finance the NRK in such a way as to distort competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e790	I support the proposals for a licence for the NRC. This does not seem to be a news for the representative of the Progress Party. I am concerned that we should have a strong public broadcaster in Norway, but I am also concerned about competition in this field. That is why we have announced a new agreement with another public broadcaster to get strong competitors to the NRK. I also record that the representative of the Progress Party is concerned about some Norwegian media companies. But then it might be interesting, in order to get a real discussion, to look at the alternative of the Progress Party. For the Progress Party, the increase in press support has not been an option. But I see that Norwegian media companies are facing major challenges and have therefore announced a review of the press support, and I want to meet a proposal from this sample with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e800	Our cultural heritage is important for the growing generation, and it is important that we in Norway take care of it in a worthy way. The Norwegian Folk Museum on Bygdøy is an important actor in this picture. The People's Museum feels like the windshield, according to the Evening Post. The cultural budget in Norway is increasing dramatically, but it does not infect the Folkemuset and being able to take care of this important cultural heritage. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she wishes to re-assess the position and problems of the Norwegian Folkemuseum and the vigilance they experience during the day. Will the Government Council say to the Government Parties that they should support the proposals of the Progress Party on precisely this: to review the situation of the Norsk Folkemuseum?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e807	I'm busy having a strong Norwegian People's Museum. But I want to take a strong distance from the representative's characteristics of this issue in the evening post today, where he claims that we do not give priority to the People's Museum, but instead prioritise Somali and Iraqi culture. It's a comparison that I think is completely inconvenient. I want to look at the appropriations for the People's Museum one more time, but to say that there's a contradiction between supporting cultural diversity and supporting the Norwegian cultural heritage, that's a comparison I don't think any of the other parties in the hall support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e814	The media area is affected, or we can almost say hit, by a huge technological development that is raging and giving us new platforms for communication and new user habits – just new ways of making money in the media area. In the past, spending an hour has also been a political challenge. In any case, the government has set up a few selections to look at the design of a new media policy, but has given very liberal deadlines for delivery. The main selection, to be chaired by Yngve Sternholm, shall deliver its nomination on 1 January 2011. In relation to the incredibly rapid development we are in, I honestly believe that this is too late. Does the Council of State share that view, and does she intend to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e821	It may be an advantage to have this option delivered earlier. On the other hand, this is the case with the press support, which Gro might have said, that everything is related to everything. So it's hard to question one part of the mandate without saying anything about the entire press support as such. But I've signaled, at the first meeting of the committee, that I want to keep close contact with the sample to get as effective a review of this scheme as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e826	The council brings me very politely to the second question, that everything is related to everything. This media support committee is, as I understand it from the mandate of the sample, limited to looking at the economic instrument. It explicitly defines the NRK out of its work, so it limits – as far as I can understand – to regulatory questions. Does the Council of State really think that we can have a media policy in the future that is based solely on economic instruments? We are facing major regulatory challenges, related to concessional arrangements, linked to online access – here is the mass that will be regulated by legislation and regulations. So in addition, NRK, which becomes a competitive factor and an economic reality, enters the media area. What will the Council of State do to identify the lack of the mandate of the Media Support Committee? Will she ensure that these other things are also taken into account when designing a new policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e833	Yes, of course I want to look at the whole of media policy. The Media Support Committee has not been mandated to discuss the full scope of Norwegian media policy, but has just received media support. Then there are also other relationships that we want to treat continuously. This applies, for example: public broadcasting, in terms of NRK vision – in all other media policies. The fact that we have a media support committee doesn't mean that we have the rest of the media policy waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e838	I think the signals from the Council of State relating to the hopefully more independent role of the Council of Culture in the future are very exciting. I quote in this connection cultural commentator Knut Olav Åmås from the Evening Post in May this year: ‘Gisske’s grip on Norwegian Culture Council is an answer to no questions asked, a solution to no one’s problems.’ I look forward to the Minister of Culture's follow-up to his signals in that area. Otherwise, the Minister of Culture again does what the Government has in common, namely to use as a reference for its budgets the government did for two major periods ago — the government then in office. You could have compared it to Stoltenberg I or Jagland. In any case, one would see that any government's action space actually increases year by year, and that it is not so easily comparable. So my question is: does the Minister of Culture recognise that the setting shows that there are six parties in the Chamber who support raising the cultural budget year after year, and have done so over several years, and does the Minister of Culture want to build bridges between the alliances that strengthen cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e852	I think it is important to have a broad focus on cultural policy. The representative is also involved in the discussion about the Council of Culture. I fully support the approach of the former Council of State Giske to this question: Ex-politics, like you and I will be once in the future, cannot become members of the Council of Culture. We want to make it a more professional body where artists sit and make priorities of artistic matters. So I believe that the arrangement we have now contributes to more spread of power in the field of culture. I recognize that there are several parties that stand together on this, but I also see that there are some parties that want the old cultural council arrangement. Clearly, what we've been doing in Norwegian cultural life in the last few years is because we've got a new government. I record that the Christian People's Party would like to say that they have participated in this in Stortinget, but the big change in Norwegian cultural life came after 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e861	I want to start by noting that there are also artists with political views. But I want to ask something because the Council of State dismissed the representative Thomsen with some statements about Somali culture. I can say with certainty that the Left has added to the multicultural field in its alternative budget, so you can't disapprove it with it. We have a genuine concern for the People's Museum and would like the Council of State to share our concerns. A proposal has been put forward in the Grand Duchy today, which will be supported by the Left, and which we wonder whether the Council of State also supports. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she shares the concern that at least we Oslo representatives have for the Folkemuseet, for the Assembly and the situation they have come into. We saw after the budget was presented that the People's Museum thought this was going very well, but when they started counting on what the letter of assignment said, and what was said on the telephone from the department, the reality was not so nice anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e870	The People's Museum has seen huge budget increases in the years that have gone by. When we calculated the culture tax, a wrong calculation was made. The People's Museum was going to get more than they actually got. Therefore, I would like to tell the representative that I share the concerns and will review this matter once more, because I am also concerned that the People's House has sufficient resources in relation to the tasks they are assigned to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e875	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e879	Let me start my post by going a little bit further on what was up in the line-and-line exchange with the Council of State. One thing I reacted to is that when you ask a question, you get a counter-question from the Council of State. Then I wonder if the council can't answer, or if she doesn't want to answer the question I had. I pointed out the situation facing media companies in Norway — the demanding challenges they face in terms of the economic situation they face, with the failure of the income side, among other things. the financial crisis and the lack of advertising. It is also a new digital age that affects media businesses quite hard. The clear signals we get back from the media are that they have no concrete solutions. I have not signed it, and I have not registered that anyone has come up with solutions. What a collective Media Norway is really saying is that they're going to compete on equal terms. They don't experience it in the case of NRK. The NRK is funded by licence, by political decisions, and in addition, the NRK is an increasing player in online sponsorship and advertising. We in the Progress Party think it is unfortunate that this is such a distortion of competition. I want to challenge again the Council of States, which has the opportunity to redraw on the list of speakers, whether she thinks this hybrid funding of the NRK in terms of both licenses and advertisements and advertising is okay, against what competitors experience. There's a lot of talk about press support, and we don't see it as the Council of State said in its answer, that the best thing to do is to help Medie-Norge out of a situation is to increase press support. We don't think that's right. We believe that reducing and after each phase out the press support is the best thing. What's important here is to protect the number. 2 and No 3 newspapers and takes the reductions on what is called nationally-wide, meaningful newspapers. The undersigned will not miss either the Newspaper or Arne Strand if they should be gone. Now it's said a lot about the NRK. The NRK stands for quality and is extremely solid in Norwegian society. That's why I also think the NRK is the media company that is able to meet a transformation economically, if it had been a majority for it. I'm not as concerned about the future of the NRK as others are clearly. At regular intervals, ideas are born. It also does so in sport, like wanting to arrange great international championships. We have examples of that, with the O.L. in Tromsø where we had a couple of rounds of applications, and we had the last time Norway's Football Federation. What's the reason for this, of course you can think about some things. With regard to the O.L. in Tromsø, there was probably a strong need for a return to reality for those who were politicians up there. So it was an idea that was born by politicians. With regard to Norway’s football association’s application, it was probably focusing on getting to a World Cup, which they had not achieved for a long time. The common feature of these two projects is that they have been completely slaughtered in terms of realism and in terms of economics. In view of the fact that the financial crisis also affects Norwegian sport, I would challenge the Council of State if the Council of State saw a need for Norwegian sport, together with the Government, to enter and create a comprehensive strategy to apply for major international championships. It could have been very good to have got a clarification from the Government on some thoughts around it, because the sport spends a lot of time on these applications that don't have a realism in them, nor does it go through. So I'm waiting for the state council to draw itself a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e892	Culture is communication between people. At the language, in the film, in the song, in the stage art and in the diverse sport, and in the forest of small and large festivals to large opera sets, from north to south, people are brought close to each other. The everyday life of people becomes so much richer when time can be filled with positive experiences with other people. The cultural pledge II and next year's budget are from the Government's side enough a recognition to the entire Cultural Norway of the important job done in urban and rural areas. Throughout the cultural setting, culture is linked to the whole breadth of people's lives. The focus is on culture and business, culture and working life, dialogue between culture, health and working life. Increasing well-being by having fun at work will help achieve goals in the inclusive working life. We believe that culture and sport are conducive to public health work and are involved in balancing social differences due to health. Older people get younger, at least for their own good, by participating in the good cultural life. Then it's nice to continue the cultural spaser stick. There are considerable differences in participation in cultural life among the population. There is a great deal of joy in the fact that children in low-income families participate less in leisure activities. It is very good that the government will now focus on that problem. We also want more disabled people to be able to participate in different sports and cultural arenas. The cultural district of Telemark is rich – rich in beautiful nature from sea to mountain. Our whole story bears the impression that artists have been inspired in Telemark – in words, in tones, and not least in painting. Telemark is rich in culture. We have benefited from cultural policies that have been pursued in recent years. Much can be mentioned, such as the Bluesfestival at Notodden, Theaterfestival in Porsgrund, The Industrial Workers' Museum at Rjukan, Vest-Telemark Museum, Theater Ibsen, etc. Many more are to be mentioned at a later date. But in 2008, Telemarksavias quoted the following words: ‘Theater Ibsen is physically the worst regional theatre in the whole country.’ The quotation is from the then Minister of Culture Trond Giske. This opinion remains valid. The theater’s production facilities are out of proportion to the cultural activity that has been created in recent years and that the theatre wants to create in the future. The conditions at the theater are actually precarious. The theatre Ibsen is scheduled to move into new premises in Cellulosen Kulturfabrik on Klosterøya in Skien. It is essential for Theater Ibsen to put in place a financing mechanism so that the relocation can be realised as planned in December 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e916	I'm going to start my post with a big thank you to the thousands of people who are engaged in voluntary work here in the country. Every day thousands of hours are spent in hard work, and it happens in almost all areas of our society, from sport through music to dancing to visiting people who need a hand to hold in, where the most important thing is to be present. Even we have been given the opportunity to meet representatives of many of these during our hearings prior to this budget. There have been exciting and educational meetings. The result of voluntary work is seen by the fact that many societal tasks are solved and add added value to a number of public services, but also to the people involved. Maybe that's the drive to engage in volunteering? But even though many are involved in voluntary work, we would have liked to have seen more people engage. We know that there are large differences in the population in terms of participation in cultural life. As the Council of State and the previous speaker pointed out, people with low income use less than other publicly funded arts and cultural services. It particularly affects children from low-income families. Our challenge is to get them involved, those who are currently participating to a small extent. That the government is now granting 3.1 million. kr to strengthen work on the inclusion of poverty is positive. It is about bringing together all groups and individuals who fall outside the community, especially in view of participation in local culture and non-governmental organisations. The government’s voluntary policy is to actively support the development of a living civil society, and in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations. As has been mentioned several times today, there is an increase of more than 220 million. kr to voluntary activity. A total of nearly 600 million is set aside. kr for voluntary purposes in 2010. It is exciting to record the important role of culture as a doorway in the north. We see that the possibility of freer movement and increased contact between people with different national, cultural and social backgrounds has contributed to both social and economic development. The northern regions shall be a multicultural meeting place, as it has been throughout generations of the population of the north. Even when the cold war was at its most intense, people met on both sides of the border. It was the culture that was the door opener towards an enclosed boundary, and the key card was coded with music and sport. Since then, people in the northern regions have met in cultural contexts, shared experiences and experiences across borders and learned to know each other's culture. And perhaps the most important thing: people have come to know each other. Culture can contribute positively to the value creation of society, both in the economic sense of the enterprise and in wider socio-economic contexts. This can be done by making cultural content the subject of industrial activities in cultural industries — rock bands, theatres or filmmakers are good examples of just that – or by being an input into a traditional business, such as: the tourism industry. Cultural life and cultural industries can make an important contribution to the wider socio-economic development of, inter alia: to contribute to local development by strengthening the identity of the site and making places more attractive to those living there and to travellers. We are many who remember the statement made by the rapporteur in Nesseby after The BlackSheeps won the Youth Grand Prix: finally, Nesseby is put on the map. They were proud and we were proud, and what's extra nice is that the band is a genuine child of the cultural school. Culture may influence the choice of place to live and train and the establishment of jobs. We see that deliberately betting on offers beyond the workplace has produced results. As it says, we're not just going to have something to live with, we're going to have something to live for. In that perspective, culture has an important place. The government is making a tremendous effort for culture through the Cultural Promise. It will be set by billions of dollars for cultural action across the country. One of the main areas of activity is action for children and young people. Being able to offer cultural school space to anyone who wants it is a tremendous promise, but perhaps one of the most important. As it says in the advertisement: It is on the small stages the great dreams are created. The cultural school with its diversity is such a scene.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e946	I am proud to belong to a majority who, to those degrees, have raised the importance of culture in society. There are many reasons why culture has been given such a central place in the policy of the red-green government, as has been explained many times from this pulpit. When I visited Estonia a few years ago, we saw that one culture built after another pop up there. It was a conscious strategy on the part of the authorities. After several decades, perhaps several hundred years of almost constant occupation, you wanted to use culture to build your identity. We've seen that Norway too has been very strategic in terms of nation-building, which the painting behind the speaker's chair is an expression. Gradually, we have also seen the development of the welfare state in Norway. Former prime minister Guttorm Hansen talked a lot about society beyond the welfare state at the end of his political career. What's waiting around the next turn? It's in that cool water I want to concentrate my post. Now we see the outlines of the future society, of what waits for the build-up of the welfare state. We see a society where someone operates with multiple identities, while others struggle to find one identity. We see that the world is getting smaller and smaller. Too many people are opening up through this unimaginable opportunity, while for others it arouses uncertainty, anxiety and suspicion. This will be a very great challenge for the political landscape of the years to come. We see that local and regional areas in such a world are becoming increasingly important. It is important that national cultural policy builds up under it, but it is also important that we have a national policy that avoids the withdrawal of people, for example. in their own religions, and shutting the world out. I also want to raise the importance of culture for health, which is also affected in the past. The future society is demanding of its citizens, and we see that many children and young people today are struggling to meet these demands. We're going to get closer to that in the next budget debate, which we're going to have later today. The importance of culture for mental health is quite obvious, but now we see evidence that cultural participation also has a significant impact on other parts of our health. Swedish brain researchers have found a clear link between active participation in culture and the reduction of the incidence of dementia, increased lifetime and increased quality of life. They are surprised at the clarity of their relationship. Thus, good cultural policy is one of the solutions to some of society's most important challenges in the years to come, both in dealing with mental health problems and, in particular, the challenges of care for the elderly. By 2050, there will be a large increase in the number of older people in Norway. With today’s level of welfare services, we are likely to lack between 30,000 and 40,000 year-olds in care and care. Studies from Sweden show that 1 to 2 pst. of youth schools can see themselves working in that sector. It's a formidable challenge. Attempts from my home, Ytterøy, with music used among demente have given very interesting results. For example, there was a patient who in the past needed three caregivers to be added to bed, for she was both anxious and worried. With music as an integral part of everyday life, you managed with a person, and things happen in calm and orderly forms. It shows some of the potential by actively applying culture in care, in health work. It can both release resources, create more dignity for the nurturing and make it more interesting to work in the sector. With more multidisciplinary efforts and increased focus on the importance of culture for health, many of the challenges we face can thus be met. That's why I'm glad that we have a remark from the majority that says it's important to focus more on the importance of culture for public health work, and not least that we can balance social differences in health by actively using cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e969	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e972	Art, culture, sport and volunteering make society richer, and it is actually decisive for the quality of human life, for the community and for development. At the same time, culture is often referred to as the glue itself in society. It is because culture is of great importance to industrial development, to jobs, to state development, to integration and inclusion, yes to health, to learning and to creativity. A society without culture is a poor society. That is why it is also important to make culture accessible to everyone, including what many will call fine culture. The follow-up of the Cultural Lift and the big shot here has at least given my county full counting. In fact, during the period, we have put in place the opera building in Nordfjord, which nobody believed in, and the travel museum and art museum in Förde, to name three. If we had promised this in connection with the 2005 elections, we would not have believed in the very one-time. Now we have that in place. What matters to culture and industry occupied me. It is directly devoted to concrete projects, including: to stimulate business to purchase contemporary Norwegian art. In addition, the Forum for Culture and Business also receives operational support. In the previous period, I was on the Justice Committee. We got in touch with the Varde Theatre. For the profit of a little over 1 million. kr let them bet on playing and developing a piece from idea to final view. They play both inside and outside the prison walls. The library services are also available at approx. 85 pst. Of the settlements in Norwegian prisons, important elements are what we call the return guarantee. In the end, I will call the Cultural Spaserstick, which gives support to the municipalities for the implementation of professional communication of culture to the elderly. This is an amazingly good offer and forward-looking cultural action. Grassroots, something that appeals to the voluntary organizations, where one decides which organization is closest to the heart, and one can reveal what a tippler is for, I also think is a right to the future and good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e985	All lots point to the problem that paper books in Norway are exempt from VAT, while e-books are subject to VAT. In addition, e-books for individuals, from foreign suppliers, such as Amazon, are actually free of VAT. This has to do something about, says all the games. Even a few months after Amazon launched its reading board, the e-books were half of Amazon's sales. There's probably a lot of people who haven't taken over what kind of change power is in the digital formats. It is crucial for Norwegian authors, for Norwegian literature and language, that we manage to get on the legs of a functioning Norwegian market for e-books. Of course, the price will be of great importance to consumers. It's hard enough to compete with Amazon's $10 prize. It is clear that consumers should benefit from the fact that the distribution of e-books is cheaper than making books of trees, books that need to be stored in large stores and driven by cars to the shops. So the equalization of digital and analogue books is necessary to make the Norwegian e-book competitive. An e-book is considered by most people to be a book that is read on a reading board. But in an open format, you have to be able to choose whether to read on a tablet, mobile phone or on a PC. A discussion on the equalisation of e-books and paperbooks must therefore also include other digital information, because the e-book is really just a digital text. The limit rise may be difficult, but it is necessary to go up. In particular, libraries use millions of dollars to provide access to digital information. For example, paper magazines now make up only a small part of the magazines provided by libraries. Most of them are digital and subject to VAT. We must not have a charging system that seems reactionary by promoting paper – yesterday’s technology – rather than digital form, which I believe is also more environmentally friendly. The solutions can be many. One measure is to release digital information for all or part of the population, or to provide support to library consortia for the provision of digital information for both knowledge and experiences. The red-green government has gone ahead in the fight for open digital formats. We now see a struggle over the hegemonics of e-books, as we saw with the video film in the 1970s, or with Apple's iPod format. In my opinion, public authorities should, of course, facilitate access to documents in the Epub format, which is the open e-book format for downloading from public websites. So maybe the reading board can replace all the papers here on Stortinget before we know the word of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1005	We are now approaching the end of the Hamsun year. We have marked in 2009 that it is 150 years since the author Knut Hamsun was born – «the man who enchants us by his books but repudiates us with his political choices», as Hans Fredrik Dahl wrote in an excellent chronicle in Dagbladet on Sunday. There have been events throughout the country, and especially in the municipalities that are closely related to Knut Hamsun's life – in Grimstad, in Lom, in Hamarøy and here in the capital, in Oslo. But there have also been events abroad. Nordland County has had a big mark not long ago, in the autumn, in St. Petersburg – the attention has been paid. The biggest event has probably been the opening of the Hamsun Centre on Hamarøy, in the municipality of Hamarøy, in August this year. It was a big national mark. The Crown Princess Mette-Marit opened the Hamsun Centre, and the Minister of Culture also attended and marked the opening of the Hamsun Days – Hamarøy at its best, a sunny day in August. The Hamsun Centre has been travelled by the county of Nordland. It's got a frame of 150 million. kr, supported by business. The municipality of Hamarøy has contributed a lot, but also the state. Thirty million. kr has contributed, and the last 15 million. kr is granted on the budget of the year. The aim of the Hamsun Centre is to communicate Knut Hamsun’s conflict-filled life and his great authorship – communicating it nationally, to the Norwegian population, and not least internationally. Hamsun is read all over the world, and it's a big challenge. It will be a major challenge for the Hamsun Centre and the local community in Hamarøy to be able to develop a centre to master that task. The assumptions and possibilities are so absolute. They have already employed qualified and competent personnel. Here, the municipality of Nordland and the municipality of Hamarøy will probably be the driving force, taking the great responsibility of developing the centre, but it is also important that the state continues on the road. One has been involved and helped to get it traveled, and here the state must also be involved in ensuring that the objectives of the operation of the centre can be achieved. The contribution to the operation of the Centre so far has been lower than expected, when you see what the State has been involved in contributing to the operation of centres for our other major authors. So it is my great wish and my great appeal to the Council of State that we look into whether the state can contribute more to the operation of the Hamsun Centre in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1018	I want to talk about the song – an artistic expression that everyone has a relationship with, as we saw in the fantastic project ‘Hele Norway sings’, which was carried out over the quite country during the last great period. At the same time, the Government launched a three-year project aimed at testing methods for stronger professionalisation of our best choirs and vocal ensembles. This project is now being evaluated in the autumn, and it is important to find out how vocal practitioners can be treated in the same way as instrumentalists – because that is not the case today. That the song may have a special symbolic force, most of us could experience for a few years, when President George W. Bush launched the term "accertic of evil" as a common term in a number of so-called hostile countries. Among the many here at home who reacted to this kind of unfurnished language practice, was the Church Cultural Workshop, which not long after launched a music album entitled "Vogsanger from the Axis of Evil". Such a title shatters the enemy image and turns it all over its head. A mother who humiliates and marshes with her child next to her breast shows us the face of love – and not evil – and the cradle song becomes the eternal and universal bond between the adult and the newborn. I want to tell a beautiful story about song that I've seen. In the autumn of 2005, I was on a campaign tour on my home island, Senja. I brought with me my two musicians – politics and music are, in my opinion, a good combination. We were invited to the hospital, where we were to hold the concert after the political meeting was over. The bright living room is full of people — some up and down, others more reduced physically and mentally. But everyone's been looking forward to this afternoon: we're going to sing! The musicians are playing, and soon famous songs from Mads Berg's songbook ring out into the room: 'And I long so long this country to see, And it drew me so gentle, when I was far off. Everyone sings. Every word and every verse flows effortlessly and effortlessly through songs that humans have lived with a whole life. The musicians are so inspired that they give up a little bit more, while I'm so moved that I almost can't sing. Because I experience a little miracle this September day at the hospital: I suddenly realize that the song is a room where the language can survive long after the ability of daily conversation has been lost in sickness and age. There is an unbroken line from the cradle song and the kid who sleeps at Mom's galley, through the great singers in many musical genres that have trolled the audience on all the world's scenes – to an afternoon in the hospital with people who, in the final phase of life, are able to hold on to the words through the song. That's the way the song is going to be our whole life, from cradle to grave. That's why the government's commitment to art and culture is so important, because it's about preserving that genuine human being in us humans.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1037	Let me begin by saying that the Right will vote in favour of proposal No. 32-36. Then we had an interesting recording, in the line change between Knutson Barstad and me, in relation to equality. I want to challenge Knutson Barstad's representative on a continuation of what she was about, namely the question of quotas and, for example, what she was talking about. the possibilities of female actors. Then again we have witnessed many superlatives of the Cultural Promise and Panegyrian descriptions of the policy that has been led by the Government. I feel a little bit called on to take a little storywriting. The pace of the cultural policy we are pursuing today was Valgerd Svarstad Haugland's cultural message, which strangled an ambitious cultural policy for the whole spectrum of the cultural field. In the debate on the notification, there was a little discussion between the opposition at the time – i.e. now the government parties – and the Bondevik government’s position parties on whether this was about 800 million. NOK in the increase in the kroner of the day, or a little over NOK 1 billion, which would then be what was necessary to reach NOK 1 pst, which was what the current government parties had as their bill. Except it wasn't a big fight. In the recording of the big shot that followed then, we saw the cultural promise, which in post for post is based on a document from the music organisations called Samsamt, plus some other things. There came the Cultural Promise, which is largely based on the efforts of which there was agreement, which the Answerstad Haugland strangled out. Until then, only SV in this room had a cultural budget that was significantly different from the others, it was significantly higher. And actually, the cultural budgets we've been looking for this are most similar to SV's starting point. The working party did not have nearly that kind of appropriations under the Bondevik regime. It's okay to have increased, but this is something that there has been a broad consensus about in Stortinget, which is based on a big message from the Bondevik government, and which is not the basis for monopolising to today's government parties – the absolute aim of each article is to try to leave the impression behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1049	Quality of life is not measured only through material values and gross domestic product. Happiness is also about things like proximity, community, belonging and experiences. The cultural promise can be justified in many ways: the cultural field must be strengthened financially, so that it reaches more people, public responsibility must be made visible, and we must become more aware of what culture means to us and the content of our lives. The promise now given to the cultural budget is resources for culture and volunteering that meet us in different places, such as cultural schools, the library, theatre, music, movies, volunteer centres, the Church and the cultural walking stick. It is uplifting that we can see so many concrete bets around the country. In my home country, Hordaland, there will be increased budgets, for example. for Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra, Carte Blanche, West Norwegian Jazz Centre and the Art Museums in Bergen, as well as should give priority to the 2010 Ole Bull anniversary, when it is 200 years since Ole Bull was born. The National Scene is provided with funds to cover increased pension costs. Let me draw out two areas under the cultural promise that I want to spend some time on. The first is the cultural walking stick, where municipalities receive grants for cultural dissemination to the elderly. I mention it because it has become more political awareness of what experiences in everyday life – cultural and social activities – mean to many older people, to the quality of life and not to be lonely. The second thing I want to mention is volunteering – a so-called third sector in society, between public and private, ranging from the local sports team to international solidarity work. In addition to the value of volunteer work itself, it also creates arenas where people meet and contribute unselfishly to hard work for the benefit of others. I am pleased that so many measures have been taken for volunteering during this government. There have been as many as 80 volunteer centres, one has been able to simplify the voluntary nature of tax regulations and employers' taxes, Norsk Tipping has introduced a grassroots percentage and the VAT compensation has to be escalated up to DKK 1 billion. In the case of the VAT system, it is added that the museums become part of the VAT system, so that they are fully entitled to deduct input VAT, but only pay a low rate outflow. In this way one achieves in total strengthening of the economy. The goal is to reach 1 pst. of the state budget for culture in 2014, but already in the meantime a lot of policies are being created, which in turn create good experiences. And quality of life has been given a separate chapter in the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1064	I take the floor first to inform you that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 37 which have been distributed from the Party of Prosperity concerning the People's House. We will also vote in favour of all the distributed proposals from the Left, with the exception of proposal No. 34, where the Christian People's Party will vote against. Otherwise, it's interesting to listen to the debate, which started a little ideologically from the beginning, but when the Workers' Party's representatives are given the floor to talk about their cultural exposure in free dress, it's very soon to find out how culture is going to meet political sector objectives in other sectors – instead of being an objective in itself. It was also the response of the Council of State that prompted me to have a new post, because the Government has chosen to use the Bondevik II government in almost all areas – i.e. two major periods of time back, to the current government – as a reference to what is good policy. There's several things to say about it. One is that this must have been an exceptionally strong government, since it serves as a reference to what is good policy several majorities afterwards. The second is obvious that when there is actually an annual growth in the state budget, there is no logic in comparing – krone for krone – appropriations from several periods of growth back. But what the government is supposed to appreciate is that you actually have increased the cultural budget more than the government budget has increased, and that's what we'd like to end up with and give the government credit for. That leads me to my next point. When the Council of State says that this is something the Christian People's Party would like to say that they have been in, there is once again an opinion from the Government that makes it possible to ask questions about respect for the Storting and the reality of the budget procedure of the Storting. It has been said in the past by one of the members of the government parties – in the context of the financial situation – that this matter has actually been dealt with in the Government and only formally in the Stortinget. You can get the same feeling when you listen to the Minister of Culture, who says that the Christian People's Party 'will be involved' in it. But it is actually the Stortinge that grants the money over the state budget, and the Ministry of Culture cannot give away a single penny without authority from this hall, nor in cultural policy. Here lies the power, and the appropriations that each party group supports in this room are what is the state budget and the priorities of the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1075	There has been a discussion about the cultural promise and who has the credit for it. Then I just want to remind you that there was a discussion in Stortinget in 2005, before I was elected, where three parties launched the cultural promise. Other parties, who were then in power, voted against what was the Cultural Promise. So what has been the cultural promise has been the basis of our policy in the previous four years, and it will be in the years to come. I note that at least three of the opposition parties believe that they agree with everything we have done, which they voted against in their time. And I think that's good, that there's a lot of excitement about the government's policy. Then I would also like to make a comment to Hope, which says that culture is a goal in itself. I agree, but art and culture must also be relevant to people. I don't think it's a problem to have a cultural life that contributes to social inclusion. In the history of the Workers' Party, we've seen how we've used culture and art to lift ordinary people, and we've made art and culture available to ordinary people who don't have money for it. That is why we have a strong state-aided cultural life in Norway. I think this is a good policy. I want a dialogue with sports about major sporting events. We've had some experience after football-EM, and also after the OL request, so I think it's important to have a dialogue with sports about this. I hear that there is considerable disagreement in the area of media policy, especially between the government parties and the Progress Party. The Progress Party says that there is no need for strong criticism of the Norwegian Government, whether it is from the nations, from our country, or from the Class struggle. I believe that this is an important part of the media diversity. I am also concerned about media diversity when I want us to have a strong NRK, which does not compete for advertising money with another public broadcaster, which also contributes to media diversity. I believe that this is a very important part of Norwegian public opinion, that we contribute to media pluralism. I note that there is considerable disagreement with the Progress Party. I also support that we have advertising on NRK's websites. Then I will finally clear up a misunderstanding. The representative Ib Thomsen said the government didn't have any of the credit because important humorists had come through, for example. Kristian Valen. Then I just want to add that the undersigned has some of the honour that Kristian Valen has become very popular, as he parodies me in several of his parodies. Thus, I would have something of the honour for this to be wonderfully fun. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1090	The President is sure that there will be more who will take credit in such contexts, in the Chamber and among those who are absent on the government bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1093	What made me take the floor is government parties' articles on volunteering. The chairman of the committee, Gunn Karin Gjul, says that Freedom Norway is extremely pleased with the government's budget, Kåre Simensen is very grateful to the volunteer, and the centre party says that volunteering is glued to the community. I wonder if we live with two very different realities. Those who were in the last period remember the big debate that we've had in many rounds in the Questionnaire in relation to VAT on volunteering, and the Government's answer was all the time that we're going to come back to this, and we're going to sort this out. We've all been in debates in the election campaign, myself with Raymond Johansen, and I've heard the government parties go out and say: just wait until the state budget comes, we're going to fix this, and the volunteer is going to get full VAT compensation. But then the budget came. We have met many players in the voluntary sector this autumn. I just want to inform the room that there is a lot of VAT frustration out there and going. Freedom Norway is not brilliantly satisfied. When Kåre Simensen says thank you to volunteer, I'm not sure if he gets any thanks back. With regard to the compensation scheme that the government parties have put on here now, where they say that volunteering gets 1.2 billion kroner – there's a lot of numbers out there and going – the volunteer says that at least they need it this year. But the government can only cough up $12 billion over five years. For example, with the full exemption of VAT, the skippers, a voluntary organisation that is safe and good in the community, would receive NOK 200,000 more each year – SEK 200,000, which they could use for much more voluntary work, and have more kids in the woodpecker. The compensation mechanism applied by the government parties is also so bureaucratic that it is a great shame to impose such a scheme on the voluntary sector. Freedom is important, it's glued to society. Norway would have stopped if we had not had the efforts of the voluntary sector in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1110	I think all the parties are concerned that you have media diversity. But it's the tools you use that separate us a little bit. If you buy a TV today, it's the NRK that secures income, it's not any other public broadcasters or anyone else who gets to participate in it. It is a form of distortion of competition that we point to, and in reality the whole of Medie-Norway points to. But the Council of State may not take this as much into consideration as we would like. I think it is good that the Council of State says that she intends to engage in dialogue with sport in the event. We think that's the right and good way to do it, simply because you have a completely different device and other resources to play on when it comes to helping sports in that way. Sport is also in a difficult economic situation. Then it becomes a little strange to me that Norwegian Typing essentially has a monopoly on gambling in Norway, but only in theory. Everyone knows that there are large players operating foreign gaming companies in Norway. So it's going to be traded for between 6 and 7 billion dollars. These gaming companies also acquire a large proportion of the TV rights. They also want to be involved in financing part of Norwegian sport, but they are not allowed to do so, they are not allowed to establish themselves in Norway. Had it been possible to do so, licensing requirements could have been imposed, they would have to return some of the funds to Norwegian sport. I must say I am amazed that you want to maintain a monopoly that is not really a monopoly. At the same time, the State is a shareholder in these companies through the investments made in oil wealth abroad. I am a little surprised that the Right does not support the proposal we have submitted regarding the abolition of gambling monopolies in Norway. I can't understand what it is that makes it difficult for Right purely ideologically to support such a proposal, and why Right sees itself served by having monopoly on gambling in Norway. If you had been to other countries that are east of us, you might have understood that – but that's exactly what I have problems understanding, all the time it's not a monopoly. It is a monopoly on paper, perhaps it is a monopoly within the minds of some politicians – but in reality it is not monopoly. There are too many billions of them traded, and large parts of them could have been returned to Norwegian sport, which needs these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1119	It was exciting to hear that the council said that she was in favour of Valen, by letting herself be parodied. It shows that there is a breadth of culture, and that not everything is just about money. The size may not be a place to look forward and see what is coming in the field of new technological development, nor within culture. I'm thinking about e-inks, I'm thinking about reading boards, and I'm thinking about e-books, which many think are a new technological marvel that will revolutionize culture and literature in Norway. But I'm disappointed that the Council of State couldn't be clear on this new, exciting development area that e-books are, and say that she actually wants to equate paper and e-books. One who had understood that was the representative from SV, Egeland, who was very clear that he wanted to equate these products, and then the advantage with them. It's a step in the right direction. You had visions, you saw the possibility, you even saw the possibility that the case papers on the Stortinget could be placed on an e-book and a reading board. Yeah, think if we could have saved ourselves the 70,000 sides that we have to carry every year. In my article I came to the conclusion that many would benefit from a reading board, this new wonder that many think it is, and then I mentioned older and weak mind. It is important that they take part in the literature. The Progress Party also believes that low-synthetic people should be able to experience films, and we think in particular of Norwegian films that receive public production support. We believe that there should be an assessment by the Government of the use of visual acuity as an instrument for everyone to participate and that further consideration should be given to the requirement for the NRK subtitles to be offered as audio subtitles. Yes, think if everyone could get involved in this, both within the NRK's cultural offer and within Norwegian-produced films that receive public support. I hope that these signals and this prayer will reach the government parties and the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1128	I thought I would say a few words about the press support, because the council spoke warmly for it and for the so-called nationwide and meaningful newspapers. But then it's important to look at what diversity you're really talking about. There's a variety of opinions we're talking about, not a variety of newspapers. Then it's going to the national newspapers and see how different opinions and opinions they have on key political issues. Where does the diversity of opinion really go? Where is the newspaper that believes today's care for the elderly should be needs-based and funded by the country? Where is the newspaper that believes that the education sector should be financed per year? student? Where is the paper that believes that today's immigration policy threatens our values and is not economically sustainable? Where is the newspaper that skeptical about the doomsday prophecies in the climate sector? Where is the newspaper that believes that the country's toll stations are an unreasonable double taxation of the drivers? Where is the newspaper that actively advocates the closure of the county and for fewer municipalities? Where is the paper that claims that today's punishment level is too low? Where is the paper that argues for a lower tax on employee income in order to increase the supply of labour and to make a fairer wage settlement for business? Where's the paper that thought it was wrong to give the peace prize to President Barack Obama? These are probably opinions in which large parts of the hall are not very happy. But these are opinions that newspapers across Europe and the United States have. So there's newspapers that don't have public support. Claiming that Norwegian media support and press support contribute to multi-ethnicism is empirically rejected. It is not possible to see a link between the press support and disagreements. The only thing you can see is between press support and a lot of newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1137	Since we have a cultural debate and it's easy to draw a change in cultural expression in this debate, I thought Aunt Sofie came sneaking into my head while I heard the previous post: "If only everyone was like me, everything would be fine." But it wasn't the previous speaker that made me take the floor. On the other hand, it was the representative of the same party, Ib Thomsen, who in his post framed up some familiar names and indicated that with the government's policy they would not be familiar. He follows it up in his next post, where he says that this is not about money at all. Well, it's enough to refer to the band D.D.E., which I think Ib Thomsen and the Progress Party feel is part of the popular culture, which of course has its right. They themselves say that it was the release of funds from the SND in their time that made them able to go to the studio and produce their first plate, which in turn caused them to break through and become known. SND is an instrument that I thought the Progress Party didn't have much faith in. On Friday is the final in X Factor on TV 2. There's one of them I'm going to vote for, at least, Chand Torsvik, very clearly that he has laid his entire foundation in the culture school in Namsos and in the environment that has been there – a result of an active cultural policy. He now also gets good support in his drive-up to the final from RockCity Namsos, a national project initiated by the Government. Creating jobs through experiences, music, culture can in many ways be compared to establishing jobs in more traditional industries. There is a need for support, and there is a need for investment. There is a high potential in cooperation on instruments between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This becomes extra obvious when we talk about exporting music. At least here we can't follow the logic of the Progress Party that only you're strong enough, so it's okay, and so you can leave the actors to yourself. It actually understands the Advance Party itself in this field. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the efforts to export Norwegian music through Music Export Norway. However, it is important that this effort is also followed up by policy measures on nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1148	I noticed that the representative of Øyvind Korsberg suggested that, if Norway is to seek great international championships, sport and the country's government must combine a strategy for the process. I agree with the heart. It is funny, however, that the representative of Korsberg has turned 180 degrees on this issue. I well remember the OL debate for a while back, where the representative Korsberg was in all channels with harsh criticism by politicians who interfered, as he said. I for my part have always thought that politicians interfere too little with such projects as the Olympics and football. It's actually about spending billions of community money, money that goes for a lot of purposes other than sport: for infrastructure, for building skills, and for regional and national profiling. Such cooperation, how many actors, including political authorities, are involved in the process together with sport and business, among other things, is actually quite common internationally. Those of us who remember the process towards Lillehammer-OL know that here was the government and regional politicians on the track from the first day. The project was therefore also defined as what it was — a major social project. In fact, the process was guided by a sample involving several departments, sports and local organisers. It probably wouldn't have been the OL on Lillehammer if we didn't have such a broad process how many were in there and made the premise for what was going to happen. National political ownership of the project was absolutely necessary. That's what made us get through internationally. We have to be able to repeat that success by thinking a little bit in the same paths if sport wants to stand in the head and be central to such a great championship as an EM or an OL is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1157	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1161	First of all, let me say that the right is also in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 37, about the People's Museum. With regard to the challenge posed by the representative of Korsberg on gambling policy, the Right's gambling policy is motivated by the desire that the maximum amount of money should go for Norwegian purposes, to Norwegian actors. Because of the EEA rules, the Progress Party will lead to international players entering the Norwegian gaming market and will bring less money for Norwegian purposes. It's the right-hand side. With regard to the subject of the copyright law, I would just like to make a brief comment that it is not the copyright law that is the main problem, even if it should be revised. The main problem is that the government doesn't do anything specifically to enforce it. It's a task for the Ministry of Justice. Under the Ministry of Justice, the right is proposing an increase in the activities of Ecocrim in order to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1170	I would like to begin by saying that I agree with what the representative of Korsberg says about the lessons with regard to OL 2014 and EM 2016. I think it's an important debate and a proper debate to take. Then I also want to say to the representative Horne that my thanks to the volunteer are real and honest. But I came up to the pulpit to talk a little bit about movies and the activity we see around the country. And when I say the whole country, it's because there's a lot of activity in the regions as well. Oslo has been, and is, the film town no. 1 in Norway, no one will dispute it. But we have gradually also had good and exciting production environments in the districts, and perhaps especially in my part of the country. Here it's just to mention the production environments in Troms, which are very exciting and incredibly interesting, and where you do a good job. But also in my hometown, Alta, we see that young people have wanted to bet on movies. They've taken their education, come back and realized different movies. I want to mention the films "Kill Buljo" and "Dead Snow". You could say what you want about them, but they're made by young people with local connections. After all, the world's environment is also looking at local production in the districts. I believe that is a confirmation that it is possible to make films outside the central struts. It is not only the music that has become an export product, nor Norwegian films have become – and can become – an export product. I think that's a good confirmation that it's possible to bet on movies. That's why the environments we get in the regions are important. The bet here is right. It is also interesting to note that an international Sami film centre and an international film environment are establishing themselves in Kautokeino. It is further confirmed that it is important and appropriate to include multicultural Norway also in the production of films. The story and the film about the Kautokeino uprising is a confirmation that such a bet is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1183	I take the floor in this debate to comment on the Committee's comment on the establishment of a National Garborg Centre in the Time Municipality of Jären. The center is under construction, and it is Time Municipality that is responsible for establishing the centre, which is to house both a new library and the Garborg Centre itself. There has long been a fierce debate and a strong local commitment about where the centre should be located. Many would have a free-standing building inspired by the Hamsun Centre. There was no excitement about it, and Time Municipality went in to establish a center co-located with the library and in a place where people move. I think it's a very good location that's been chosen, and I'm glad you've made a decision. A new national Garborg Centre shall not only be an exhibition of the life and literature of the couple Arne and Hulda Garborg, it shall also be a centre to create commitment and debate — and contribute to creating social inclusion among young people. That's why you should also bring youth from Garborg's Bryne, Asker and Tynset places when you're going to shape the very contents of the center, a center that will give young people the courage to think. When an overall committee now provides support for the plans adopted, the debate on the location is over. Good debate is good, but a good debate also has its end. That end has come now. The fact that the Minister of Culture in this matter has shown some action – of dear dimensions, I would say – is very gratifying. It is clear that the Ministry of Culture has set up a total of 7 million in 2009. kr to the exhibition in the Garborg Centre. However, the Committee's comment is not unvalued, for it is not in objectives. I believe that good and close cooperation between the Garborg Centre and the Jærmuseet on the one hand and the State on the other will be important to overcome the remaining challenges in connection with the establishment of the Centre. There are also other instruments than money. The 2009 state budget and the action of the Minister of Culture have created a lot of joy and enthusiasm for us, who are eager followers of Arne Garborg. I want to mark the day by quoting from some of Garborg's words, which goes on the sweet communication. Let me end with them: "I looked at you and you looked at me, and we laughed so well."
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1201	The next speaker is State Council Anniken Huitfeldt – which the President expects to pair with a similar quotation – and then Øyvind Håbreek.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1204	I can't, but I can highly recommend "Bondestudentar", which gives a fantastic historical insight into the construction of the nation of Norway. Then I was challenged by the representative Tybring-Gjedde to see if there were any party newspapers – and then he framed several of the program points of the Progress Party. I want to answer that question by saying that there is such a newspaper. It's called "Fremskrit". It is the party visa of the Progress Party. State aid is granted to the Progress Party to produce that paper. There are also no newspapers that have given the Government wholehearted support and warm support in its view of biodiesel, on tolls or on charging policies in general, but there is a newspaper — or a meaningful magazine — that provides the Workers' Party with support in all that it does. It is the newspaper «Sammen», a partisan published by the Workers' Party. I am a hot follower of media diversity in Norway. That's why we need a strong NRK. We need a strong, competitive public broadcaster, and we need a strong press, with different opinions, that can challenge all the parties in Norway. The time when you had strong party newspapers that gave the parties right in one and all is over. I think that is an advantage for the diversity of opinion in Norway. I note that, at this point, there is considerable political disagreement between most political parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1215	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1218	When the Minister of Culture makes a great point of going back to 2004–2005 and examining the keynote on cultural policy in order to justify the clear distinction between the Red-Green and Right, Left and Christian People's Party in cultural policy, she again overlooks the fact that all the crowns granted in the field of cultural policy in recent years have been awarded by a majority in this Chamber. This is the basis for the promise made to cultural policy. Let me also point out that if the Christian People's Party's proposal in the financial position had been adopted, the cultural framework would have been 50 million. kr higher than what it actually becomes, just so it's said. The most important thing about this is that cultural life had been served by the Minister of Culture building around the alliances that are on this promise, not trying unnecessarily to split them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1225	With regard to the application for a few European football championships, it has been mildly said to be a strange process. It was the representative Knutsen who got me to speak, because she was just standing on this pulpit and was very much talking about the importance of politicians getting involved, and she seems that politicians interfere too little when decisions about such events are to be taken. It is quite strange that the representative Knutsen can allow himself to say something like that from the pulpit, all the time we have a Minister of Culture who has deprived us politicians of the opportunity to involve us in this process, and deprived the Stortinget of the opportunity to participate in the process of applying for the EM in football. The process has been influenced by the fact that decisions have been kept away from the societal debate, and it seems that decisions have been taken in the back. The majority has asked the Council of State to comment on this in the public debate. In fact, on behalf of Stortinget, we have contacted the Council of State and asked how the process should be carried on, especially the time aspect of the matter. Then we got the answer that the matter was supposed to be put before Stortinget, and that we would have plenty of time to deal with it, but that the council itself needed time to ensure the quality of the figures that were to be provided. After three weeks, some figures were submitted from an external company, and a few hours later, the minister went out and told me that the process has ended – there will be no EM request. I therefore think it is special that representatives of the government parties can stand on this pulpit and ask the government to engage in such processes, when we are deprived of the opportunity to do so. We are deprived of the opportunity to involve ourselves in a matter that is very important to very many, and which affects many. Many people have spent a lot of time and resources preparing such an application. That's why I think it reminds me of traditional power arrogance on the part of the government parties, and I find it regrettable that the Stortinget was not involved in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1236	The centre party is engaged in volunteering, and we are concerned with the spirit of hard work in Norway. During the debate I have recorded that more people believe that the government's announced investment in the voluntary sector is not good enough. Then I have to remind you that the efforts we have had on culture and volunteering in recent years, and the escalation we have announced – an escalation of DKK 1 billion that has been announced in 2014 – are quite unique. There has never been as much effort in the voluntary sector as under this government. Then it becomes a little strange when this government is criticized for not investing enough when we, for example. sees what the Bondevik II government did in its reign. In contrast to what the other parties did when they were in government two periods ago, we actually grant the funds now when we sit with the government. That's actually what you're able to deliver in position, you have to measure on, and not what you do to promise when you're in opposition. The centre party will work to follow up the premises that have been made in the past and that we do not need to have a very bureaucratic system, and that we need to have a system that is adapted to both small and large organisations. We have also recorded that Freedom Norway and several others have pointed to the device, but now it is about the money you grant, and then the debate on how the device should be will come later. The Centre Party will then work to ensure that we have a system that is good for both small and large organisations, which is unbureaucratic, and which is in line with the agreements that have been concluded in the past, both with sport and with Freedom Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1243	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1246	A small comment to the representative of Hofstad Helleland: I don't think she quite understood what I said. What's my point is that I believe that, as far as the major championships are concerned, from day one, there must be political representation in the advice and selections that will determine whether this is possible. Then you can see at an early stage whether this works or not. I noticed that the representative of Hofstad Helleland criticized the Council of State. I don't think she has any reason for that. She said she was both too quick and too late. The government will present the proposals it wishes. I must also note that the Swedish government did not want this, and the matter falls on its own. But it is, of course, the representative of Hofstad Helleland who is free to make a proposal in the Grand Duchy on this matter, if she so wishes. The government decided not to file the case for Storting – the government must be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1254	No more have asked for the word to be used for area 3. We're going to deal with Framework Area 2, under which we're also dealing with the case number. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1259	There has been a women's revolution in Norway. 30 years ago, less than half of all Norwegian women were active. The other half were full-time housewives and were cared for by their husbands. In three decades, women have flowed into the labour market. Today, we have the highest professional participation among women in the world. At the same time, we are at the top of Europe in the number of childbirth. Combining the role of the mother and the professional role is impossible in most other countries. In Italy and Greece, only two women are employed, and in Turkey every four women are active. The reason why Norwegian women can have both jobs and children is a uniquely organised working life with family-friendly working hours, the world's best parental leave schemes and good childcare solutions for children through a good childcare service. Women's high participation in employment is considered one of the main causes of growth in the Norwegian economy. Many women in work create growth and well-being. This gives Norway a competitive advantage over other countries. This success story has led us to believe that we have full equality. It's far from the truth. The speech of the numbers is clear. Women earn less than men, 43 pst. Women work part-time, we have a very gender-based labour market, most leaders both in the public and private sectors are men, and while eight out of ten midwives work part-time, toddlers work more overtime than any other group. This lack of equality wants the red-green government to do something about it. That's why we put the Equal pay Commission down, and that's why the Government of Soria Moria has said that it will contribute to an equal pay gap in the next year's wage settlement. But only the social partners can negotiate an equal pay promise. The government may contribute, but the parties must agree on the salary groups that will receive a lasting promise. The Equal Pay Commission also pointed out that, in addition to an equal pay pledge, there is a need for a third of the parental leave. There is also a need to strengthen the gender equality law and ombudsman in order to reduce the gap between women’s and men’s wages. In the current year's budget, the papacy issue has been extended from six to ten weeks, and in the 2010 budget, the Government proposes to introduce a federal quota in all cases where both mother and father have earned a right, even where mother has worked less than 50 pst. Thus, 1,500 more fathers are able to be at home with their children. We're moving another step in the direction of a third of parental leave and a more equal parenthood. We have achieved the goal of full child care coverage and thus implemented the greatest welfare reform of 30 years. From being a good thing for the few, kindergartens have become an offer to the large majority of children between one and six years of age. About 97 pst. of the children who started school in the fall have gone to kindergarten. Kinderhagen has become an important social arena and a central learning venue for the vast majority of Norwegian children. From having built kindergartens, there are brakes and clothes that can keep us going, we continue the kindergarten effort to improve the quality. In the spring, the Stortinget decided that the private kindergartens should have funding equal to that of the municipal authorities. This is now following up the government, and the first heads will be in place from the fall of 2010. The increased appropriations for private kindergartens will lead to better pay and working conditions, as well as more educators and other employees in private kindergartens. The competence of kindergarten employees is crucial for the quality of kindergartens. As a result, more pre-school teachers are trained than ever, and provision of further training for assistants in kindergartens is under way. Sickness about Norway is a good country to live in, not all children have equal growth conditions. Many children grow up in families with major drug problems, and many children live under unworthy conditions. Many children and families get good help from child protection, but at the same time we know that many children get help too late. It is therefore important to strengthen municipal child protection, as proposed by the Government in its budget. Children have the right to good growth conditions regardless of their social background. In a country like Norway, we have a duty to ensure that all children can live a good life and have the same opportunities. In this debate, too, I am allowed to correct a typographical error in the configuration. There is an error in the committee's recommendation in Innst. 14 S below the frame area 2. It's about cap. 865, heading 79. There's a 4 out there. I'm going to have $384 000, but the right amount is going to be NOK 4 384 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1285	It's okay to get the millions too! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1290	The representative Gjul is concerned with equality between women and men. In a look-up in the VG for a while back she would give artificial fertilization to lonely. The representative, Mr Gjul, said: ‘It is wrong for me that lesbian and heterophilic couples should be entitled to assisted conception, while solstice does not. Either you're for assisted conception, or you're not. I do not think we should have rules that discriminate against a group in relation to others." Then the question is quite simply: how will the representative Gjul solve it with regard to single men who want to become fathers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1302	Allow me to give the representative Korsberg a small biology training: Now it's like women can have children, men can't have children. Therefore, the Storting cannot decide that we should have some kind of assisted conception of men, because unfortunately there will be no special success. My point of travelling a debate on assisted conception also for lonely women is that we already know today that lone women travel abroad and get help to have children. I think it is better that women get help in Norway, among others. because the children then become aware of their origin when they grow old enough, as children born within marriage, are born within marriage. In addition, it will be far more practical and provide better opportunities for these women than if you have to travel abroad to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1311	The representative Gjul has a commendable commitment to child protection. Does the representative consider that the municipalities are following up on the child-restraint campaign announced by the Government in the budget, when two out of three councillors are actually proposing to cut child-restraint in their budgets? The representative is well aware of the conditions in Trondheim, and her red-green colleagues there have now decided to cut child protection to balance the budget. Does the representative believe that the municipalities are on the right track? Is it such that the red-green politicians landed around kutter in child protection? And does the representative think that it is legitimate for the red-green politicians to cut down on child protection? If no, what will the representative do to ensure that the red-greens also listen to what they do in government, and what do you want to do on the child protection side?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1318	There has been a large-scale effort on child protection under the red-green government. When the government took over Stoltenberg after the Bondevik II administration, there was a rather large unpaid bill, not least linked to the state child protection. It turned out that national child protection was heavily underfunded. This government has therefore contributed more than DKK 1 billion extra to the protection of the state's children. But then we see that the growth that has been in child protection at state level has not been followed up in municipal child protection in the same way. We see that there have been more and more children who have sought help in municipal child protection, and there has been more and more work for those who are employed in municipal child protection. We see that in the years to come there is a great need to strengthen municipal child protection. For this reason, the 2010 municipal planning government has contributed to the creation of 400 new posts in municipal child protection. We believe that the municipalities actually want to strengthen child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1325	The representative, Gjul, has a prestigious commitment to equality. Now, in the last four years, this government has had more money available than any other government. That's why we in the Christian People's Party have tried to understand, and we've pondered quite a lot, why you haven't put in place the important piece of self-sufficiency for fathers just in this period where you've had the chance. A small, positive step has been taken in this budget – that is to say – but it is still very long. You have not taken advantage of the means you have had for your benefit. As mentioned earlier, the head of the family committee came on the track on December 3rd and wanted to open up artificially assisted fertilisation for solitude, because it was obviously not so important with these fathers anyway. And now the representative says that men can't have children. I've been walking around saying for many years that I have children, so I almost have to ask the representative Gjul: is this this new recognition that men can't have children, and that resistance, which is the basis for not having come any longer with independent income rights for fathers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1332	The red-green government has done a great deal both to guarantee fathers' rights and to improve the parental leave system. So since we took over in 2005, we've expanded the spring ratio from 5 to 10 weeks. This has helped many more fathers to spend much longer time at home with their young children. In addition, we presented the human message a little over a year ago, saying that you will further extend the feather quota, from 10 to 14 weeks. Then you've done a lot of work to seal the dirtholes that are in terms of fathers' earned rights. We have done so with regard to the women who are on labour market measures, and the last, which comes into the 2010 budget, is that in cases where women have worked in less than 50 pst. Nevertheless, fathers will be entitled to stay at home with their children. So here's another group of 1,500 fathers who actually get the opportunity to be home with their kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1340	Over the last few weeks, budgets have been debated for a long time in the late hours of the night — perhaps not a completely family-friendly job, that is to say, many. But we have come to one of the last debates, but I think I would say that this is one of the most important debates we have. The debates and decisions of the other committees have an impact on the lives of each family, but it is only today that we are to adopt and debate important steps that each family must take. Norway is the best country in the world to live in, and one should look for a long time for better arrangements for the family than the ones we have here. Many countries envy those arrangements, but if any country can afford it, it is Norway. There are schemes that are incredibly important to parents, and not least to the children concerned. The Progress Party believes that the family is one of the most important pillars of today's society. Safe, good growing conditions are incredibly important. The Progress Party believes that an active and proper family policy must be pursued. This will bring significant societal benefits both in the short and long term. Good family policies are important for the whole welfare community. What's so good and right family policy? I'm sure everyone here agrees that such a policy needs to be pursued, but we also have different opinions about what is a right and good family policy. The Progress Party believes it is very important to give families considerable freedom in their everyday lives, the possibility of freedom of choice and the right to have their own family situation. One must never try to weaken the role of parents in relation to the child. The Progress Party believes that the public can never fully replace the parents in creating a safe framework and membership for a child. There has been a recent debate in the media on the sharing of parental leave. The goal for all of us is that the child should be at home with his parents around him for as long as possible. The goal must be that far more fathers take leave than is the case today. That's how far we agree. But we do not agree with the instruments. And it was with pleasure I read the Daily Newspaper today, where a working party top, Fredrik Mellem, says that one has to ask himself how far one should go in detail regulating all families here in the country. The Progress Party believes that the instruments launched by the Government are completely wrong. The party of progress has faith in father and mother and family. We believe that it's the family themselves who knows and knows best how they want to behave. As the situation is today, when mother loses the court if father doesn't take his leave, the child becomes the loser. Nor is it easy for a father who might run a small sole proprietorship, to take out the weeks he wants with the child. Since the mother then loses the right to take leave, it is punishing the child, who could have been at home longer with one of the parents. It should be up to the individual couple how they will distribute the maternity leave between themselves. The time has now come for positive instruments such as ensuring the independence of fathers. Giving father self-sufficiency means that the Progress Party is on the right track to go. It is primarily to give the parents back the right to dispose of their family. Good family policy is also to have a good financial environment for the family. Such an arrangement is child-responsiveness. It's a long and good tradition here in the country. Child welfare is a system that reaches out to everyone. The problem is that this scheme has not been price adjusted in the last 13 years. The progress party believes it is now high time that the child's fear was adjusted up. This could mean that some families get just the little extra they need every month. The family is a natural, valuable and fundamental element and an important framework for the growth and future of children. The fact that mom and dad have safe jobs, that each family gets more of their income every month, that interest does not go up, that petrol or diesel does not get more expensive, that electricity prices do not rise, that they have access to kindergartens – all this is related. Some families choose to have their child in their nursery, others choose their day mother, and some choose to be at home. These are choices that it is important that we, as politicians, respect and facilitate each family being able to take on its own. The Progress Party believes that parents must have the freedom to choose for themselves what is best for their children, and there must be economic equality in this election. The time has come to create a society in which we facilitate parents who choose different care solutions to be taken seriously. ‘We cannot introduce those who choose wrong!’ said Jens Stoltenberg during the presentation of the Workers’ Party’s programme in 2005-2009. Kristin Halvorsen followed this up in August 2008, when she said about the cash support that it is “inconceivable that we have a system that rewards the opposite of what we as a society are earned” with. [[...]] Kindergartens are the best according to today's government. This is a development against which the Progress Party will warn. Kindergarten is best for someone, others choose the day mother, and someone chooses to be at home and receive cash support. This government signals that the cash support is going away, this arrangement has been successful for the families who have used it. By not investing in the cash support, a parent who wants an opportunity to be with his or her children in a period of life where the parents are very central. Again, this government deprives the family of freedom of choice and forces the family slowly, but surely to choose solutions that this government believes are best. As the situation is today, we have really noticed that it is expected that all children will go to kindergarten. It's hard to choose differently. The Advance Party is too free to choose for all parents, so that they can choose what is best for their child. The advancement party is too good kindergartens with well-qualified staff for those who need it, and those who want it. The Progress Party respects the ability of others to think and choose differently in terms of care and assignment. But we really want the freedom of choice to lie with parents, not the choice to be given by society and the financial arrangements. That is why the Progress Party will warn against cutting off the cash support. Rather, one should make this system better, so that more people choose this solution in the early years of their lives. We've got a great kindergarten deal, which is unique. Nevertheless, the Government has not been able to honour the promise of full non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. Let me remind the government that it would not have been possible to achieve full child care without the private kindergartens. If one does not see the importance of non-discrimination between the private and the public kindergartens, then one fails the children and the families who choose private solutions. The government must now take over and find a solution to this problem. Most children in Norway are doing well. Nevertheless, it is in its place to say some words about those who do not have it so well, and who need help from society. Often it is the weakest of the weakest, who only have the state to trust to get it safe and sound. This is our responsibility. Like the rest of the committee, we're concerned that the number of people who need help through child protection is increasing. The Progress Party will stress the importance of prevention and early assistance to vulnerable children, young people and families who need it. Can we manage to give the families help as quickly as they need it, at home, we might be able to prevent takeovers and places away from home. However, I will acknowledge that for some children the situation may be so difficult that action needs to be taken. It's important that they get the best offer we can find. These children are so vulnerable, and they need our help. When we often see situations that show that many of these children are exposed to new abuses when they are under the care of child protection, there is great cause for concern. There are too many children who do not receive the follow-up and supervision they require. We must not forget that, after all, it is all about children who are in a very vulnerable and often vulnerable position. When the child's closest has failed, there is nothing that will be worse than that society also fails. When one of three children who has been in foster homes for more than a year has not been supervised in accordance with the requirements of the law, we believe that there is a crisis and that it is only getting worse. Many people I talk to – because they call almost every day – say that the law is there, but it is not followed up. The government has promised to clean up for years, but nothing has happened. The Party considers that there is now a need to establish a free and independent child protection system to ensure that both the local child protection and the State child protection system are supervised. Finally, I would like to remind this committee that we have a great responsibility. It's about our kids. Betting on the family is one of the most important tasks that politicians have. Investing in the family is investing in the future. I will end by quoting some words that I read for some time ago: «The life we live as parents, with all the activities and choices we take, is the childhood of our children! For us parents, the infancy is “only” a busy period of time – but for our children their only childhood.” With this, I would like to address the minority proposals on which the Progress Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1395	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1400	I was very happy when I saw that the Progress Party had turned its policy into a very important question in a comment. The note from the Progress Party states: ‘Norway has incorporated the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Child, and we are therefore obliged to facilitate this for all children living in Norway.’ I am very happy to see that the Progress Party is now taking the UN Children's Convention seriously. What I'm asking is what this will mean for the Progress Party's policy on minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1410	I thank you for the question. The UN Children's Convention has supported the Progress Party all the way. To what the representative points out, how this will affect the minor asylum seekers living in Norway, I would say that it will have a good impact because it is an offer to them. But I almost want to ask the question back to the representative, because a total increase has gone to ensure that minor asylum seekers between the ages of 15 and 18 come under the care of child protection. So this is what the government parties with SV in the driver's seat said in the Soria Moria statement and also in the budget that they have not been able to find money for. I think that if we go in to work together so that we can also make a good offer to the minor asylum seekers who are from 15 to 18 years old, they get the offer they require.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1419	In the setting, the Progress Party states the following related to the appropriations for actions for lesbian and gay: ‘These members propose significant reductions in this item. These members consider that it is not a public task not to engage in equal opportunities or measures for special interest groups such as lesbians and gays. These members consider it wrong to establish selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adults only on the basis of their sexual orientation.’ It is well known that homosexuals and lesbians are overrepresented in mental disorders, suicide attempts, drug use and not least as victims of bullying in school. I would like to ask the Progress Party, which is a law and order party that is otherwise occupied by discipline and attitudes in so many areas: what kind of role should politicians and the state actually have in combating discrimination in society, especially against homosexuals and lesbians?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1429	Once again, I would like to thank you for the question. I'm almost a little surprised by the Christian People's Party's concern for the gay and lesbians in society. There are rules and laws for those children who have problems in school. For those who are drug addicts and who have social and mental problems, there is health legislation for them. With regard to its own specific rules and arrangements for gay and lesbian, the Progress Party considers that this is not a priority area. There are other laws that take care of their interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1436	I note that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advancement Party, is positive in facilitating Sami children to develop their language and cultural background in kindergarten. The Progress Party believes that it is a special measure for certain groups of people. Everyone should be treated the same, they say, and despite that we know that the language is the most important cultural carrier for minority groups. My question to the representative Horne is: is it non-discrimination for children not to facilitate training for Sami children in their own native language in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1445	The Progress Party believes that all children should be treated equally. The Progress Party believes that when you go to a Norwegian kindergarten, you should learn Norwegian in that kindergarten. We do not want any special measures for Sami children in kindergartens. If they're going to learn their native language, they can learn it in their spare time, at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1450	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1453	Kindergarten, school and SFO are all good welfare offers we need and want. More and more children spend more and more time there. Responsibility for child education, care and learning is increasingly transferred to the state. Not everyone is satisfied that we are more and more approaching the governmentization of childhood. The right considers that those who do not find themselves at ease with public solutions must be given the opportunity to choose different or to establish alternatives. Children are different. Families are different. View of learning, mission and care varies. The State will never be able to ensure an adequate diversity of supply. The freedom to choose differently and to ensure that there is no need to resort to the Community solutions of the State is a central area for which the Right will fight during this period. The government will increasingly control the most of the family life of the Norwegian people. Still, the ability of mother and father to make their own choices for their children is limited in line with their own wishes and circumstances. The government is weakening the ability to choose between public schools and fresh schools. They deprive parents of the right to choose for themselves the distribution of parental leave. They eliminate the possibility for the youngest children to receive care other than kindergarten by cutting cash support, and they reduce and gradually phase out the diversity of childcare facilities by changing the framework conditions for private kindergartens. Parental responsibility is being powdered, and state care is increasingly taking over. Family policy should not be just a matter for the state. It shall not be developed on the basis of a belief that all identifiable problems can be solved by regulation and contributions from the treasury through forced third-division of leave and compulsory kindergarten for all. It is alarming to see the enormous regulatory instruments that characterize the country's government. In any case, the parental leave is ultimately about the children’s demands for care from their parents in their first year of life. There may be some politicians who should remember. The leave shall not be a tool in the equality struggle. I hope that I will also express the debate that the Committee is going to pursue. The cash support is due to fall with the current government. The reason for removing the scheme is that women who are at home with their children are losing in career and wage development. It was claimed from eager cash support opponents, including in this room, that cash support helps to prevent some immigrant groups from acquiring the Norwegian language and losing their ability to integrate, that children with obvious home care problems are not caught up early enough, and need a kindergarten offer. We see that freedom of choice, flexibility and responsibility for own children are secondary to the government's political objectives of equality, integration and control. The government's family policy deprives families with poor finances of the opportunity to choose. These families are deprived of that right in favour of a large-scale funding of the middle class and of their desire to be able to choose for themselves. The government's policy will move us towards a society where well-kept people will choose how they will live their lives, while with less resources they will have to take on thanks to rigid state solutions, without room for flexibility and diversity. This leads us into a new class society. This is a policy unless it is for those who already have the least. That's very regrettable. As far as kindergartens are concerned, we have a major challenge when it comes to ensuring adequate and competent staffing. Strong pressure on development has obviously had a negative impact on quality, as reflected by an increasing number of exemptions from educational requirements and more children per year. employed. Right is pleased that the government parties in our countries met Right and the opposition's demands for equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. On the right, private kindergartens contribute to a wide variety of childcare facilities. We will therefore work hard to speed up the phase of full equal treatment between public and private kindergartens. Modifying the grant rate in the middle of an operating year has considerable administrative costs and it is difficult to understand why the Government imposes this additional burden on the kindergartens and municipalities. Participation in social and activating leisure activities increases the quality of life and brings joy to many children and young people. It is not lucky that children and young people are not given such participation because of poor finances. Voluntary organisations have good offers, but of course they depend on quota revenue in order to be able to carry out their work. Right wants to introduce a grant scheme in which families who do not have the ability to pay for their own children’s participation in activities directed by voluntary organisations will have the opportunity to recover that cost. Unfortunately, the government parties are voting against this today. Therefore, it is very surprising to read the Evening Post today, where SVs Karin Andersen rates an identical proposal for free participation in various leisure activities. The representative Karin Andersen says about free tickets that they have introduced in Right-Handled Ålesund: ‘This is exciting and interesting, and we are now looking at different models to realise similar measures across the country.’ At the same time as expressing this enthusiasm, SV therefore vote against the Right's proposal on local poverty measures for children and young people and on the coverage of the quota in order to get the opportunity to participate, for example. corps and handball. This detracts from the small they have left of credibility in combating poverty. This is a betrayal of the poor children who don't have the opportunity to join the spear or play the piano because mom and dad can't afford to pay what it costs. SV and Karin Andersen want to be on a free card, so that young people, for example: can go and watch Rosenborg at Lerkendal, while they are currently refusing to cover the costs of children who want to join and play football. I'd like to know what's the big difference for the government parties, between covering tickets, so that fifteen-year-olds can watch football matches, and say no to pay the quota, so seven-year-olds won't stand on the sideline and watch their friends play football. To take responsibility, you have to be held responsible. The vast majority of adults are able, and want, to take responsibility for their own children. Society must, as far as possible, make it possible for it to do so. Government policy has a different starting point. Marginal groups of children face major challenges in our society. These need a lot of help and a lot of support. In particular, child protection has a formidable task of ensuring that the most vulnerable groups among us, namely the children who suffer from care problems, drug problems or mental challenges, get the help they need. Many children and young people get good help from child protection, but too many do not get the help they need. State Council Light Hill, like its predecessors, puts child protection high on the agenda. It's affordable. The right has great expectations of what the Council of State will do. Like the fourth Minister for Gender Equality in this government, we support him and wish him luck in his work on doing something about the serious situation. There is no simple task, and unfortunately it has happened too little in this field. You get the feeling that there's a lot of fancy words, but that there's not enough priority. Even the children who call out and say that the state is failing, the children who say they are not getting the care they are entitled to, the children who say that nobody cares – even those children are not being heard. Even children who stand up and tell about lack of supervision and control seem to be getting deformed. It is no easy task for anyone to give these children the care, love and security their parents are never able to give them, but they should at least be met with respect for who they are, and for their needs. We in the committee shall be ambitious in this field, I hope. We're not going to be satisfied until we have high-quality child protection. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of children failing. The aim must be to provide effective child protection where the resource management in the area of child protection, at both state and local level, is satisfactory. Right will fight for another direction in which man's self-esteem and self-respect are central. This is about seeing the individual solutions and opportunities that people want. It's about giving opportunities to people in their daily lives, showing care and care for the people we put at the heart of our lives. We know that where the state assumes responsibility, personal effort is also weakened. To the extent that we can talk about the government of childhood, the core is in this. That debate is ready for the Right to travel in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1499	The right of this setting has quite critical comments about kindergartens. Among other things, they come up with the claim that 40,000 children started the new kindergarten year without a preschool teacher. I've never had a quality assurance. Then they also say that for the last four years the focus on expansion has weakened the ability to bet on quality. What does the Right think we should have done? Have we built too many? Have we built too fast? What do the Right Parents think would have preferred – to wait in kindergarten until we had full coverage of preschool teachers all over the line, or to have a kindergarten that actually takes good care of the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1507	I thank the representative, Gunn Olsen, for the question. On the right there seems to be an affordable job that the government has done in this field. But it has gone too fast – yes. I can give the representative two examples of that. In Trondheim they got full child care coverage in the middle of the previous period. Then temporary kindergartens were set up on illegal plots, kindergartens that they now have to demolish, and which are the country's most expensive kindergartens, as opposed to in Bergen, where they managed to meet the demand for full kindergartens for a short time, but where permanent kindergartens are to be built many years in time. Yes, the expansion has gone too fast because, especially in the red-green exhibition window in Trondheim, you have been so busy fulfilling the promise, and it has gone at a cost of quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1516	The representative of Hofstad Helleland mentioned in his speech the care solutions we have for the young people in Norway today, among others. through kindergartens and parental leave, such as «rigid state solutions». There are solutions that women in Italy and Germany can only dream of getting. Getting a kindergarten for your kids, actually having a good parental leave scheme, and actually being able to combine having little kids and being active is something most other European women envy us. So I think it is quite strange that the representative Hofstad Helleland refers to it as «rigid state solutions». Is it true that the representative of Hofstad Helleland does not want fathers to have a spring quota, which the Right actually meant in 1993 when it was introduced? Before that it was only 3 pst. of the fathers who took parental leave. Then take over 90 pst. of the fathers' leave. Is it really true that you want to get back to the traditional gender role pattern?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1523	I think the representative Gjul knows better than many people that I really appreciate kindergartens, also to satisfy my own needs. I also very much appreciate the leave. But I also know how important it is for parents to have the opportunity to decide how the family should live their lives. Right is very much for kindergartens, right is very much for leave, but it's important to us that it's not the politicians who are going to decide which arrangements the family should choose. It is absolutely central for any mother and father and for any family to sit around the kitchen table and decide how to dispose of their time, whether they want to be home beyond the first year with the child, whether they want to have a full nursery or half a kindergarten and combine it with other solutions. For the right, it is most important for the family to decide for themselves as much as possible. We want more freedom of choice back to the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1533	Politics is about changing. It's about changing society. It's about changing perceptions, and it's about changing your mind about what's important. 30 years ago, SV was one of the few in the struggle for a kindergarten revolution. With my 23 years, it's very hard to imagine a time when being in kindergarten was an isolated matter – and if you were for kindergartens, it was perceived as being a bad mother. But that's the way it was. The fight for kindergartens was also a struggle for equality, for women's right to work and thus have their own income. Own income has always been the key to women's liberation. The children's hail lift is the largest welfare promise of 30 years. A red-green policy is not just about defending the welfare state against privatisation. We want to expand the welfare state and make it better and bigger, because this will make Norway a better country to live in. The welfare state and kindergartens shall be for all. It is a goal that everyone should be able to make use of nursery facilities, and therefore the continuation of the maximum price is so incredibly important. The children’s gardening revolution shows that it is possible to change Norway and change its meaning. Yes, it shows that it is possible to change the policy of even conservative parties in this area. Kindergarten issues were once politically controversial, but now there is a gang's policy. We must never forget how important kindergartens are and have been to equality. Another area where change is also needed is the large pay gap between women and men in Norway. One of the greatest injustices in our society is that those who do some of the heaviest and most important jobs, also serve the least. Then we talk about help nurses, kindergarten assistants, preschool teachers, cleaners and others. That is why I am extremely pleased that for the first time in the history of Norway we have a government that has made a clear declaration of will in this field. For the first time, we have a government that will engage in active dialogue with the social partners on how to set up a real equal pay promise. An equal pay pot is one of the largest and most important measures, but this alone is not enough. SV means we should turn on each rock. We have to look at parental leave, we have to look at the right to the entire position, we have to look at the manpower situation, and we have to look at the counselling service in school. A couple of weeks ago, I came across a little treat from Denmark. Danish female engineers have halved the pay gap to their male colleagues over the course of five years, from 10 p.m. to 4,5 pst. They have done this by means of a negotiation course — an action taken because it turned out that women do not in any way claim the same pay as their male colleagues. The difference in pay from the first job continues to grow in the professional career. Once I'm so privileged that I get to stand on this platform, I also want to encourage the trade union movement to look at several measures that can contribute to a women's pay gap in this country, and show, among other things, that. to the example from Denmark. Finally, I would say that equal pay is primarily a matter of justice, but equal pay is also imperative if we are to recruit more people to work in the welfare state in the years to come. Politics is about changing. Through the kindergarten revolution, SV has shown that we can change Norway in government. Now we need the same change in the equal pay field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1557	I want to follow up the representative's reply to me, where the representative from SV was very concerned about the minor asylum seekers. For a time, an overall increase was made – where the Progress Party and SV agreed to say how important it was that there should be no difference between children living in Norway – a decision that the responsibility for caring for lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age should be transferred to child protection. My question to the representative will then be: How can SV defend that there is no solution for the minor asylum seekers who live in reception today and who should have been under the care of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1566	I do not want to pretend that I am not sorry because we have not come any further in this field. But I am pleased that the objective of involving minor asylum seekers in the handling of child protection remains in Soria Moria II. I'm willing to work everything I can for the next four years to get it done. But I want to play the ball back to the Progress Party, which is talking about caring for a group of people you won't even come to the country. One won't let them in. If the Progress Party wants to be involved in working in this field, I wonder if we can perhaps look at whether the entire asylum and refugee policy can become more humane.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1573	It is not to hide that I was very surprised when I read the paper today, since EN for three years in Stortinget has voted against individual measures in terms of strengthening child and youth actions in the municipalities. Children who cannot afford to be in the woodpecker, in the corps or at football, get the municipality to pay the quota because their parents cannot afford it. SV has voted against this three times, but SV says something quite different in the newspaper today. Now they're willing to sponsor and give such a free card. Does this mean that SV is going to turn around in the hall today and support Right, so that these children can participate in leisure activities and not have to stand on the sideline and watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1578	I want to commend the representative of Hofstad Helleland for her commitment to child poverty. It's an engagement that she shares with me, and that she shares with the Council of State for this field. I think there are two things we should remember in this case. First of all, we remember that the right in position prioritised giving tax relief to the richest people in the country instead of combating child poverty. This government spends more money on combating child poverty than the Bondevik government did. At the same time, I would like to say that it is not that in SV – or in government – we have a monopoly on good ideas. I wish that the representative of Hofstad Helleland was rather in favour of Karin Andersen being willing to meet this proposal. I think it's a good idea that we're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1585	We hear again new examples of the red-greens still using the government we had two major periods ago – the Bondevik II government – as a reference to what is good policy. It underlines, as I said, that it must have been a very strong and good government. I would like to refer from the first page of the vote, the main priorities of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. In the first paragraph, these lots say the following: ‘The welfare systems we have should reflect the needs and lives of families. The majority indicate that today’s family policy is on track over time and that the welfare systems we have are the ones that children’s families demand.’ The question of SV is self-evident: Is this the final confirmation that the cash support survives another four years with SV in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1598	Cash support is often referred to as a system from the state where people are paid to be at home with children. That's not true. The cash support was the Christian People's Party's way of buying out of kindergarten policy, by paying people not to avail themselves of a public offer. I think we've seen that kindergarten is a popular desire. It is a desire of the population for better leave arrangements, and this government is following up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1603	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1606	For the Center Party, the family is the basic social unit of society. The children’s need for care, safety, tranquillity and proximity must be met there. At the same time, kindergarten, school and local cultural and sporting services are also seen as important venues for creating safe and healthy breeding environments. Modern everyday life puts a strong time pressure on today's children and young people. Many families with children experience that they do not get enough time together. Therefore, it is important that we develop schemes that facilitate the combination of professional activity and child care. Both changes in working life and general social trends challenge what we can call the traditional family. We have to assume that the family concept is quite different today than it was ten to fifteen years ago. Then it's important that we have the ability to create arrangements that are adapted to today's families, and that families get the freedom of choice they need to create a good and secure environment, both for children and adults. We have very good welfare systems in Norway in connection with childbirth and care. But unfortunately, there are some people who fall outside the arrangements we have, and the arrangements for some of the arrangements we have are not much adapted to today's families. It means that very many people wait a long time to have children, which means that there is still quite a difference between women and men's care for the children in the first year. It is therefore positive that the majority of the Committee points out in a note that it is appropriate to look at today's parental pension scheme, with a view to identifying and presenting a simplified and more equal regime. It is important that fathers take an even greater active part in the everyday life of the newborn child. Therefore, it is very positive that the Government has now submitted changes to the parental pension scheme, which will give several fathers the right to a parental allowance. Although there has been a very large development in the last 10–15 years around the care of men for their own children, we still have a rather long way to go before we can say that we have an equal parenthood. If you don't get to do anything about equality in responsibility for children and families, this will also affect the goal we've set to do something about the pay gap between women and men. All children have the right to safe and good care. Unfortunately, too many children feel that the home is unable to carry out these tasks. Then we're dependent on a well-functioning child protection system. We have major challenges in the area of child protection today. Therefore, there is a very necessary boost when the free income of the municipalities facilitates the strengthening of municipal child protection. It is important to say that there is a lot of good work done in both municipal and state child protection. Many who need help are getting help today. But at the same time, we hear stories from children and young people who, for various reasons, fall outside the facility. Then it is important that we continue to work for a more comprehensive offer, and that child protection should have a high level of competence. It's important that those in need of help get the help they need. Therefore, it is also positive that in 2010 the Ministry will launch its own research project related to the provision of awareness-raising messages. This Committee has a large and demanding area. The centre party will continue to work for a more equal society, for a society capable of creating a framework for good growth for our children and a secure framework for the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1632	During the last election, the Center Party actively promulgated its own party program. It says something about cash support. It says that the cash - support scheme must be targeted at families whose parents are at home with children under two years of age. It also says that father and mother should have a real freedom to choose between work and to be at home after the birth of children. Then I have two questions. Firstly, is the representative comfortable with the disappearance of the future policy and of the future cash support system, and is this a policy for which the central party representative will go well? The second question is the real freedom of parents where both mother and father can choose how to dispose of the leave scheme. This is where mom loses the court, where the family loses the court, and where the kids lose the court. Is the representative comfortable with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1641	First I have to say that I share the representative's enthusiasm for the cash support. Cash support is an important part of family policy. It is not that the cash support will disappear during this government. What we want – and it says in the Center Party’s program – is to strengthen the cash support and target it to the parents who choose to be at home with their children. The centre party is occupied by the freedom of choice for the family and by the freedom in which both mother and father have the opportunity to be at home with their children. What we see is that after the introduction of the father quota, several fathers choose to be at home with their children. Then we have a desire to go through the parental pension scheme just to look at some of the things that the representative points out, that some fall outside due to a very demanding work situation. But as a general rule, I believe that both mother and father should have the opportunity to be at home with their children, and that this is fully possible. It is also desirable for the Center Party that both mother and father care for their own children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1648	I thank you for the post from the Center Party, which, once again, I think contained a lot of excitement. But I welcome the government's review and final definition of what it means to be at home with their children. When you're going to draw up those boundaries, you're going to get a big job. But child protection has major challenges and major shortcomings at all stages. That means that the children who need our care and help the most, we are unable to cope with the necessary measures. There is a lack of foster homes, lack of supervisors, lack of after-care, etc. The questions raised by the representative Ramsøy will therefore be: Is the Central Party satisfied with the efforts made by the Government in the last four years for the protection of children? Will the Central Party fight within the government to support the Christian People's Party's proposal for full child protection – with a clear deadline and a stepping-up plan to get full coverage of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1657	Like the representative of the Christian People's Party, not only is the Center Party, but a collective government very concerned with child protection. I'm very pleased with the job and the effort you've put in, but it's very close enough. Because the challenges were already so great, you can't blame a single government or a party for that. That's something we have to take overall responsibility for. After all, what the Central Party wants is to get a review and look at the child protection we have in relation to the reform we have implemented. We need to look at how we are now going to take the next step to strengthen both municipal and state child protection, look at the large use of resources in child protection today and how to use the funds in a better way than what we are doing today. The goal should then be to get an even better offer to the children involved. We hope we can get to a system that's behind a total accumulation, because I think this is a question that all the parties are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1664	My question is what it feels like for the Central Party to be involved in the ideological drive towards all private actors in our sector – private in the field of child protection, private kindergartens and, on the one hand, volunteering. And given the tradition of the Center Party, it has to be a little weird. We know that, we who are from Trøndelag, that child protection institutions are being set up, and people are spending their savings on giving children a good deal. We know that many of the most difficult cases are just on the hands of the private actors. Is it so that the Center Party will continue with the ideological raw drive towards the private ones, or will you get a greater impact than you had in the last period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1674	First, I have to say that I don't accept the premise on that question. I don't think the government has an ideological rough road to the privates. In relation to kindergartens, there is now a stepping-up plan to equalise private kindergartens with local authorities. Then the government has said that initially it is believed that the public should be responsible for large and important welfare services, which I believe, among other things. the protection of the child is. But the government is also aware that we would not have achieved this coverage, either in terms of child protection or kindergartens, without the private ones. But we want essentially that the public has a primary responsibility, and then they're private a very good supplement. For the Central Party, there are mainly some tasks that we believe the public should take responsibility for. This applies, inter alia, to: child protection. So today we see that we don't have enough resources for it ourselves. That's why you have arrangements where you use private, where there are a lot of good alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1683	Recently, we were able to hear Peace Prize winner Barack Obama give his Nobel lecture in Oslo City Hall. In his undefiled review of the dilemmas of peace and real policy, he underlined the following: ‘And yet I don’t think we have the will and the stamina to finish this work without anything more — and that is the continued expansion of our moral imagination, a clear understanding that there is something irrefutable that we all have about.” The Peace Prize winner points to the awareness that we are all part of a community as a prerequisite for peaceful societies. One of the policy's main tasks must be to counteract fragmentation, dissatisfaction and egoism, instead of building bridges between people for ever-new generations. History shows us that it is far from natural that individuals, neighbors and groups live together in peaceful interaction. How can we translate it into practical policy? It is common sense that the most important basis for shaping people so that they work well with others is laid the very first years of our lives. The first, trying learning about dealing with other people is in the interaction with your parents and your immediate family. The experience also tells us how difficult it is to repair when, for different reasons, this basis is not laid in early years. The concepts of responsibility and community are inextricably linked. The most fundamental relationship between people, regardless of laws and regulations, are adults who, in their legacy, put people into the world. It is therefore amazing how, in particular, the Government and government parties make the family invisible in their policies. If we make laws that say that adults have the right to help have children, we have also said something about men being able to bring children to the world without taking responsibility. We break up one of the cornerstones of commitment and responsibility in the community. In order to strengthen personal responsibility and to strengthen the community between people, we need to clarify parental responsibility and give fathers and mothers good conditions for managing responsibility. It is the best framework that politicians can provide for the smallest and most vulnerable members of the community – the young. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will strengthen parents' opportunities for time, flexibility and freedom of choice, through proposals for increased cash support, increased one-off support, and the independent right of access for fathers. We will strengthen the course of life and family protection in order to strengthen the ability of parents to be good parents, both together and after any breakup, which can happen through any partnership. Then the safety net has to be without holes, so that we can capture those who can't get the care they need from their own parents. Child protection as a safety net is currently full of gaps, and too many young people who have fallen once through the experience of care failure, fall further through these security network holes when child protection does not have the capacity needed to provide an adequate range of services. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed a stepping-up plan for full child protection. We hope that other parties will support it. After many different reforms and escalation plans for different groups, there must finally be the turn of child-restraints. Nobody needs it anymore, we don't owe it anymore. The Christian People's Party has followed up this with proposals in the financial position, which the government parties would not support. Despite the Ministry's own description of serious child-restraint deficiencies, both the draft budget and the position that the red-greens have not taken the situation of child-restraint seriously. Kindergartens are a good and important educational care provision, and almost all parents today choose kindergarten for their children. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the quality of kindergartens through increased support for the development of skills and faster phase-in of non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens. Most people agree that equal pay is important, but it requires practical action. The Christian People's Party is promoting more proposals to follow up on this, including: proposals for a separate action plan that can translate the objectives into practical results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1710	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1713	I will follow up a line that Gunn Olsen had to represent Linda Hofstad Helleland. It is about the comment that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are united in criticising the quality of kindergartens – a note that appears to be a paradox when user studies show that parents are, in fact, very pleased with the kindergarten offer. But Hofstad Helleland replied that it has gone too fast, and so we must assume that it has gone beyond quality. The question to the representative, Håbrek, is therefore: Where are the kindergartens that Håbrek believes should never have been built? And: Has Hope been given a phone call from parents who are upset that they have been given kindergarten, and who would rather have waited for three or four years until the quality was as desired by the Right and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1720	I propose that the representative, Mr Stokkan-Grande, forward that question to the representative, Mr Hofstad Helleland, who is the right address. The representative of Hofstad Helleland will answer for his words, and I will answer for mine. But we agree on the comment because I think it's a mutual recognition – quite wide – that the rapid expansion we've had of kindergartens to achieve the goal of full kindergarten coverage has gone beyond quality. That doesn't mean, in my opinion, that it's gone too fast, because we've been together to push these goals forward – we've jointly wanted to achieve them even faster. I would rather say that we have probably had too little eye on the quality – and then I would also criticise the Government – and made demands for what kind of offer the municipalities could have actually built up in this period to achieve the goal of full coverage while at the same time ensuring the quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1725	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1728	The left is not on the committee, and we regret that. But we want to say something about our alternative in this area, and we also want to make a little comment at the beginning of the debate related to children. The way we treat children in a society is always what describes the forces of society and the weaknesses of society. For us in the Left, there's a great ideologist about children's rights, that's of course Johan Castberg. What Johan Castberg taught us with the Castberg Children's Laws was a very important principle, whether it be for priests to baptize, or for children's politics. It's about the basic principle that if you never disagree with adults' choices, you should never punish children for the choice that adults have made. When adults do things that lead adults into trouble, children should never suffer for the choices they make. I believe that this is a very important principle, and it is as topical today as it was when Castberg introduced the children's laws here in the hall. It is also an important principle in many of the major issues relating to children's rights. We in the Left are deeply concerned about child protection. It's about the bureaucracy associated with it, but also about the fact that we're starting to move more and more power away from the children, and that we're creating systems that children are going to fit in, instead of creating systems around each child. That's why the Left is doing a grip on the state budget, which is probably the most thought of as a symbolic grip. It's about bringing more money away from the regional link and down to municipal child protection. By doing so, we mean to show how, with greater room for action, better arrangements could have been made locally for each child than with the system we have today, which is both bureaucratic and has major shortcomings. The second concern in the area of child protection relates to supervision. It is worrying when children under the care of child protection do not have better supervision than they do. And when we see which scandals in child protection we're going to clean up from ten years ago, we should have learned from it and made sure that our oversight systems were good enough. Another thing that Left has been very concerned about, is about adoption. I realized that the former child minister was busy with it, so I hope that it has been transferred to the new child minister, so that we can do something about the whole adoption process. One is that adoption support, which the Left has put in every alternative budget, is raised to 2 G, but it's also about facilitating adoption, and considering as a society that actually more people are doing it. I'm very happy if the Council of State says something about it in its speech. The left also introduces seaworthy entitlement for fathers. I think it's funny that a government that otherwise has a profile related to equality and all of that, has not managed to make that promise – which we believe is a very important promise in the name of equality, also related to the care of the child. Finally, I must mention the asylum children. I understand that for the Government, the scope here has increased, and that the challenges have become great, but there is a big difference between saying a total no and finding other forms of arrangements. What surprises me is that there are no care arrangements that can lie in the break-up between what is a pure child protection institution and what is an asylum recipient, and that it is not possible to develop care facilities that are able to deal with the amount of asylum children that comes, in a better way than what we are doing today. What worries me is that we still get reports that children disappear in Norway, and that children who should have been put under public care disappear from reception. That's what I think is quite scary, because it's about not taking care of the very weakest terms here. I hope that the Government, sail if you can't create the perfect child protection institution for everyone, can at least make sure that children don't disappear, that children have basic care, and that children aren't kept waiting with many adults who are in a different situation. So I'm surprised you haven't been able to find a good enough order. You should have used your creativity on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1745	Children are our most important resource. Therefore, the everyday life and future of children should be our most important political theme. Today, about 44,000 children receive child protection assistance. Most people get help at home, in cooperation with the family. Prognosis shows that more and more people are going to need assistance from child protection. It is the municipalities that have a primary responsibility for providing it with help, because municipal child protection can enter early, cooperate well with other services and take action adapted to the individual child. Therefore, good quality child protection work is a primary objective for this government and for me as a government council, and it requires, of course, that we have sufficient capacity in municipal child protection in the form of enough employees. I am therefore going to continue working on a comprehensive escalation plan for a long-term strengthening of child protection in the municipalities and working with the KS to achieve such a plan. In 2010, national child protection will be responsible for about 300 single-year-old asylum seekers in care centres and other measures, as already mentioned several times in this debate. So that's ten times more than what we saw when we started the reform. What's a main task right now is to make sure that we get these children settled in the municipalities quickly, so that they can get their lives started in Norway. There will be a main priority in that area in the future. The right hand party and the Progress Party shall call for non-discrimination between public and private providers of child protection services. What we want is that the need for institutional places should primarily be met by exploiting the capacity we already have in the state institutions. Then we want to prioritise non-profit institutions rather than commercial ones when buying places of the same quality, because we want to ensure that every single penny we grant for child protection is used for child protection. Another crucial area for this government is the fight against poverty, and in particular the fight against child poverty. That is why we have in the budget under consideration today, a particular effort to tackle poverty among children, young people and families in larger cities. Participation in holiday and leisure activities and measures that can contribute to a better relationship with youth education and working life are targeted. We have a special effort aimed at young people who are out of training and working life. The work on equal pay is important in the Government's efforts to promote equality between women and men. In my view, this is our greatest equality challenge. Both in the country and in the local government sector, we now have joint selections dealing with proposals for action on equal pay – in line with the Equal pay Commission’s proposal on how a public sector pay gap can be implemented. I am pleased that a joint committee endorses the proposal to strengthen the right of fathers to parental leave. So the proposal implies that there will be a father's allowance in all cases where both mother and father have earned the right amount, even when mother has worked less than 50 pst. That means that a hole in the code – another hole, I would say – is dense, and that 1,500 more fathers get the opportunity to be home with their kids. It's very important. On 1 January 2010, the new Crisis Centre Offer Act will enter into force. It focuses on another very important issue of gender equality policy, namely the fight against male violence against women, which remains a social problem in Norway. With this law, we make it clear that municipalities are responsible for offering people who are exposed to violence in close relationships, protection, help and follow-up. It's an important step forward for our society. Then I appreciate that in the Committee there seems to be a broad consensus and openness about consumer policy. There has not been much discussion in the debate until now, but it is an important topic to focus on. I want to do mine to make this visible in the coming period. It is important to establish counterpower against commercial pressure. It is particularly important for children and young people, and new technologies pose new challenges in this area. In this context, it is important to disseminate skills in the form of a critical attitude to both advertising and knowledge of rights and obligations, privacy and security when using digital media, such as: This is a red-green budget that is committed to children, who are committed to equality, who are committed to an offensive fight in our society to strengthen the rights of, among other things. children, women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1768	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1771	There's a lot of things you could have asked the council of state about in the lines, but I'm going to stick to two things. First, today's Newspaper. There has been a debate about father fighting on cardboard, and a working party top, Fredrik Mellem, head of the Oslo Workers' Society, says that the ‘type of regulation speed’ to which the Government adds, ‘makes many aversion to the left.’ He also says that it is now time to try to think a little bit new to ensure as many fathers as possible self-sufficiency – in fact in line with what the Progress Party has proposed several times. My question to the Council of State will be if the Council of State sees that giving fathers an independent right to profit can be a positive tool that can make more fathers stay at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1780	Self-sufficiency for fathers is an important goal. What this government has done in budgets since the red-greens took over power is to include more and more in the parental arrangements we have. Several people are entitled to leave, and everyone who has the right to leave has more leave. We've expanded the total time, and at the same time we've expanded the spring quota. We have made sure that new groups, including: self-employed persons, a number of men who previously had no right of employment, come under the schemes. The mechanism now being dealt with in this budget, which means that even fathers who are in the situation that mother has earned rights, but who have worked less than half the time, get rights, means that 1,500 more fathers get rights in relation to the situation that was before. There are still 6,000 unprivileged fathers. It's an important goal in the years to come, to include them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1788	I would like to use my second line for a completely different theme, and it concerns child protection. The government has failed child protection. We have shown several times that there is an abuse in foster homes, and that those under care do not get the supervisors they are entitled to. When one out of three children does not have the supervision they should have, there is a failure in the situation. Anniken Huitfeldt said that when she was a child minister, and now the councillor Lightbakken says it: he's going to grab hold of it and have a dialogue with the KS. The KS on its side says that they cannot guarantee that the municipalities will employ more people in child protection. This is a really big crisis that I would like the Council of State to respond to how he will deal with. Then there's a question related to the Committee's position where we come across criticism of state child protection. What will the Council of State do to improve the control of the expenditure on child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1797	There were many questions at once. That means that I and the representative Horne might have to come back to some of these rounds. I'm sure we'll have a chance to do that. The municipalities state per 31 December last year at 89 pst. of the children for whom they are responsible for supervision had a supervisor. With a few exceptions, there is a right that applies to everyone. And that's a requirement that we obviously have for the municipalities to follow up. I'll keep doing that. With regard to the work on strengthening the staffing of municipal child protection, we have said clearly in this budget within the free resources that we expect 400 new posts in municipal child protection to come out of it. We work in relation to the KS and in relation to the municipalities to follow it up. If we can't do it, I'll of course, beyond the year, consider what kind of other measures we need to take to strengthen the manning in the first line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1806	The Council of State stated to the Newspaper on 7 December that he ‘wanted to fight for increased spring quota as soon as possible’. Does this mean that you want such a large family quota that you go in the direction of a third? I know that for many, many years, the Council of State has been very keen on a third. There have been some other signals in the Soria Moria statement. Is it that the Council of State is now taking a distance from the position of a third, and that he is standing on what is in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1811	Sometimes the debate on thirds gets a little funny, because the Norwegian system is that we have three different quotas: we have a quota for father, which is set up with broad political support because we have seen that fathers without such a quota for different reasons have not been given the opportunity to use their rights. Before the spring quota came, it was 2-3 pst. by the fathers who took leave or parental leave. Then we have a quota reserved for mother for medical, biological reasons. And then we have most of the leave to free distribution. So what's the goal of the Government is now to extend the total time to 48 weeks and the spring ratio to 14 weeks. It's a goal I'm very comfortable with, because it will bring us a lot closer to what has been SV's goal all along, namely to make sure we have one of the world's best arrangements to get more men to participate in child care. That's what Soria Moria II says, which is the goal I'm now working to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1821	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't entirely agree. It's the government parties, in my opinion, that divide into three quotas. The fact that Mother has a few weeks on her allowance for medical reasons is not something that we politicians should first and foremost record as a quota. My question also relates to the cash support. The cash support shall be phased out. For those who have children, at least most people appreciate flexibility. Does the Council of State recognize the need for flexibility in families? And how will it be safeguarded and the freedom of choice of families when the cash support is phased out through Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1828	What is said in Soria Moria is that the Government should target the cash support and that it should be an offer to the 1-year-olds in the future. What has been the main contribution of this government to increased flexibility for young children’s parents is child care reform. I understand that I and the representative of Hofstad Helleland look at it a little differently, but the fact that we have provided for a right to kindergarten and full child care, gives freedom and flexibility that the families did not have before, and that cash support has never been close to securing families. So that means that every family has a greater freedom to organize their everyday life, their participation in the work and the care of their children as they wish. For me, the kindergarten reform is like a freedom reform, and I see nothing but the clear figures we have in relation to a decrease in the use of cash support, it illustrates very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1835	There have been several references today to the kindergarten reform, which has given us, at least far on the way, full kindergarten coverage and maximum price. I will not repeat to the Council of State all the challenges and gaps we have at almost all stages of child protection – it should be well known to the Council of State – but the question is, in the light of the promises we have now made in recent years: does the Council of State agree that it is now the turn of child protection to a common national political promise? And what plans does the Council of State have in addition to the dialogue with the municipalities and beyond the processes we are already familiar with – which are not close to implementing that promise – in order to achieve the goal of full child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1842	I agree that child protection must now become a very central priority in the future. Our government has used considerable resources, and in recent years has also managed the conversion work that has been going on in the child protection sector, so it is absolutely not that anything has happened here. But, yes, we have great challenges, and it's such an important political task that I can't see anyone more important in the years to come. So that's what we're going to give priority to. As I announced in my post, I will continue to work on an overall escalation plan, which is previously something of the same thing as the representative of Hope and the Christian People's Party have called for in the representative proposal that is now in place, with a view to the long-term strengthening of child protection in the municipalities. Then, as I have announced before, I will also start the evaluation of the administrative reform that needs to be carried out to look at the structures of state child protection and the potential we have for better exploitation of resources by improving coordination and interaction between municipal and state child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1849	I would like to ask about lone minor asylum seekers. I think that SV really has a sincere commitment to this group, and that they think it's politically burdensome that we haven't achieved more than what we have with this. I've been to some of the institutions where the youngest are -- really great institutions that offer great deals. I feel very safe considering that children live there. But then it's the group that's not inside. I really have a simple question. It's a big leap from as good institutions as we have, to what we offer that group. Would it have been possible to reach out to make the offer better than it is today — a step closer to the goal — and at least to ensure that young people do not disappear from reception? And can the Council of States guarantee that we can at least create systems that make us know where these kids are at any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1856	This is a very important question. I think it's a constructive approach, because my commitment to these kids is strong and has always been strong. So the government set out to implement a reform that has proved to be far more extensive than what was believed at the start of the work. With regard to the predictions for the number of children we are talking about, there were ten times more children than that calculated in 2005 – and the cost has been equal to ten times higher. I see that also the opposition now proposes in several of the alternative budgets not to extend the responsibilities of child protection for the 15-18-year-olds from 1 January 2010, but from 1 January 2011. I'm assuming that it's because the opposition also has problems figuring out what it costs. Just to ensure that, in the meantime, the provision is upgraded for those young people who are then in reception and not in a care centre, the Government is already in the process of taking various measures in this state budget. And I'm going to follow up on the track that Skei Grande was in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1861	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1865	The Council of State called for a focus on consumer policy, and I'm going to use my input in that area. As consumers, we experience major changes in our everyday lives. With a few keystrokes, we have the bank, the store, the municipality or the state available on the kitchen table. From the same kitchen table we can buy most – and we provide banking services and participate in public services over the network. Access to new and increasingly advanced technologies is helping to change our habits as consumers and recipients. It's fast, easy and cheap, and then we have to do the job ourselves. Technology has no borders. It can create many challenges and questions. Do we have the same rights if we buy goods online from Beijing, Roma or Kautokeino? Do we get the money back if we make mistakes in a web store in China? What about those who are forced to use online banking services because the bank shuts down its restriction services? Do the goods we buy satisfy our ethical requirements? These are examples of a few, of many, issues that become part of our political debates in shaping consumer policy in the coming years. Developments face many new challenges in more and more consumer areas, such as: the need to make new – or adapt – laws because existing laws do not cover developments that have taken place over time in different areas. We see it in the purchase of package travel, we see it within timeshare agreements and long-term holiday product to mention someone. We also know that there is an important debate on the proposal for a new EU directive on consumer rights, a debate that has been very close to completion. I think it is an important signal to send that Norwegian consumer interests should not be weakened in the future EU directives. This is the view of a unanimous committee. Such debates and legislative proposals are often initiated on the basis of different EU directives. On this basis, some political challenges may arise that we need to address. One of them may be that it is not possible to introduce or continue national rules derogating from an EU Directive if it is fully harmonised within an area. A good consumer policy is therefore something a single country cannot develop alone. The challenges are global. As with us, consumer policy is high on the EU policy agenda, and the consumer's interests focus on most of the EU's policies. It is therefore reassuring that Norway’s vote, in which these debates are held, is well maintained through the EEA Agreement. Another major challenge for us is the use of the Internet by young people for various activities. We know that young people spend many of their hours on the Internet or on their mobile phone. It's not just us parents who have registered. We see that more and more online providers of goods and services have discovered the same thing, and we are therefore recording an ever-increasing advertising and purchasing press directed at children and young people. This development challenges us both as parents and as central politicians. Our job is to protect children and young people from the pressure they are subjected to, and our task must be to help young people develop a critical attitude towards advertising, their own rights, duties, privacy and security. It has been taken into account by the Government that they will disseminate this kind of knowledge to children and young people in school through the Knowledge promise. It is also important that we adults must be able to meet today's and tomorrow's consumer policy with new knowledge. Therefore, it is a correct signal that the Government promises a continued increase in consumer policy. We must not only focus on our rights as consumers, but it is also important to understand the consequences of using a digital medium in online trading. In the cold water of – or one should dry to say in advance of – technological development, we unfortunately record a new kind of crime that can occur when we deliberately or unconsciously leave off electronic tracks. That's why we have to do what we can to reduce this kind of crime that we see gripping more and more. ID theft is a bad example of just this. For this reason, it is necessary to work for safe, well-informed and active consumers. My impression is that there is a good job in this area. A good starting point for this work is set out in the Government's action programme on consumer policy, and not least in the draft budget that we are to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1891	Two key elements of the kindergarten agreement were the introduction of a maximum price for parental pay and an obligation to treat non-economically private and municipal kindergartens. The agreement provided for a two-stage introduction of the maximum price of parental payment in kindergarten. From the day the maximum price was introduced, municipalities were given a statutory financial responsibility for the private kindergartens. Furthermore, in the childcare arrangement, the introduction of a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide a sufficient number of childcare facilities in the municipality was decided. It has been a great expansion, it has been a great collaboration with private kindergartens and the municipality – and this has worked for me very, very well. An obligation for the municipalities to facilitate a coordinated recording process I also have the impression that I have worked well around the municipalities and given good service to the applicants and their parents. Non-discrimination of approved kindergartens in the case of government grants gives municipalities, as I said, an obligation to cover costs that are not covered by other government grants and parental benefits. However, equivalent treatment for private and municipal kindergartens has not yet been achieved – it has not been fully achieved. An equal treatment of 80 pst. Not good enough. That means you should work to approach 100 pst. It can be done in several ways, and I think the Council of State should say something about today, and at least signal it. You can improve the effectiveness of municipal kindergartens. You can give the private more money and promise money that way, and from the point of view of being given equal treatment. Equal treatment was the important principle when the agreement was concluded in Stortinget. What private individuals experience as major challenges — and which they also need help with non-discrimination — is this with value added tax and compensation, this with the way in which the grant and payments from the municipality come, the operating grant, laws, regulations and administrative provisions. So there are still many major challenges for private kindergartens. They still lack equivalent treatment. The main objective of the government must be and should be to work for the framework conditions to provide secure kindergartens for the benefit of the child, supervisors and employees. It was the private kindergartens that saved the government in achieving the great goal that the Storting had. It is the private kindergartens that have made it possible to carry out the nursery arrangement. Up to 50 pst. of kindergartens in Norway are private, and this works very, very well. It is a good cooperation between the private and the municipalities around the country. Yes, in my opinion, private and municipal public cooperation has been a success. But now we also have to get to a 100 pst. equal treatment of these actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1906	We now have a huge kindergarten development behind us, and the biggest welfare reform of 30 years – as it also says in the position – has been implemented. 40,000 new children have had their children’s gardening space. When we know how important this is to ensure the best possible starting point for all children for the rest of their lives, there is a reform with which the Storting can be very pleased, and with which the Government can be pleased. When you really think about this, these are real people – 40,000 real children, 80,000 real parents and the glory of grandparents. It is quite concrete kindergartens that stand around over 400 municipalities. There are many very common, concrete people, pre-school teachers and assistants working there. This means that there has been a hard time where municipalities have set up, where individuals have set up, where private developers have been involved, and who have just been able to put this reform in place. What's surprising is how little quality has gone down. We have not made any reductions in the quality requirements through the legislation. We still have a third of preschool teachers in kindergartens, despite the huge increase. We have some more exemptions – that's right – and we now need to focus on getting down. But we've focused on getting full coverage. We have done it with the same quality requirements that we have had. Now it's about increasing the focus on developing quality further. We see that there is an increased recruitment of pre-school teachers, but I am also concerned that the assistants who are in the kindergarten are a very important resource, and that many more of them can obtain a degree letter and have the opportunity to have more knowledge when they are in daily contact with so many children. I think it is pure words for the money when the Right says straight out in the debate that the expansion has gone too fast. I have not met any parents who have complained that they have had a kindergarten. I have met many people who have thanked most – because I myself was the one who was the greatest in the kangaroo when it came to how we were supposed to get it – for having been given it. I've met many of my own old friends who, when we're in our ace, think about how we used to roam with day-mothers, how one came home and found the day-mother in his own slump in the middle of the morning, oily and with the potato gold bag in front of him, while the kid was running around. Such horror stories are, in fact, quite a few of us who have, and the gratitude for having had full child-care coverage is very great. But of course, we're always going to strive for better quality. I think it can be a challenge for many of the kindergartens now that kindergartens have become a legal right, and some parents will eventually have the opportunity to choose between kindergartens. You have to be very clear about what kindergarten offers and what quality it is on offer. It has been absolutely essential, as many have been involved, to have private kindergartens as providers and partners to get full child care coverage. We have now adopted an escalation plan on how to ensure non-discrimination, and the first part of this escalation plan is here. We have good dialogue with, among other things: Private Barnehagers Landsförbund on how we're going to get this on. We have also provided a big message on quality in kindergarten, focusing on how to develop quality further and how kindergarten is also, without becoming a school, but based on preschool education and the fact that childhood has a value in itself, has the opportunity at an early stage to catch up with the children who may have problems or special challenges related to, for example, children. language development. It's important that it happens systematically. The more we know about early intervention, the more we know that it is important that one can take action quickly. We also have a great potential to look at the transition between kindergarten and school, so that we get to see the whole educational cycle, starting with a voluntary childcare facility, as a whole. There are some major differences in the setting. It is primarily about the payment for stays in kindergartens. On the right, parts of their tax reliefs, about half a billion dollars, are financed by a net increase in kindergarten rates. It's in a proposal here. With regard to the proposal to rate income for kindergartens, it is a little difficult to find out how they intend to implement it. We can get some challenges because some municipalities have free space for children in kindergarten. In fact, if you implement state-regulated income limits on how to pay child care rates, someone with free space may suddenly have to start paying. It's in case of a challenge that those parties have to answer for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1930	Governments are talking about full child-care coverage, but it's probably a truth with modifications, related to the time of the year the child was born. One of the prerequisites for this agreement was to equalise private and public kindergartens. It has not yet happened, even though it has been many years since its adoption. In this state budget, the Government proposes to raise 88 pst. public funding from 1 August 2010. The system of measuring grants to private kindergartens is very complicated. Even KS has addressed this issue. The Landsförbunde of Private Barnehager has also addressed this issue because the requirement for funding needs to be changed in the middle of the year of operation. The Progress Party and the Right have proposed to introduce 88 pst. from 1 January 2010. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that this will be extra expenditure and double use of resources for municipalities, in kindergartens and in the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1939	This has been done once before without the huge administrative challenges for kindergartens. It is quite obvious that if you were to choose on the top shelf, you would do this in one operation. But what was important to us was to be able to get started during 2010 with the escalation of private kindergartens, because they need predictability of how this is going to happen, and also because we are going to face a very big challenge when the earmarked funds for kindergartens are to be incorporated into the transfer system of the municipalities. So this is the beginning of the escalation that we communicated in our day to the private kindergartens, which makes it predictable for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1944	The cost growth in municipal kindergartens has been very high. There's something the Landsförbund of Private Barnehage has taken up, and also the KS. KS has seen in its calculations that the municipalities are missing approx. One and a half billion dollars to get this going. My question to the Council of State is whether she agrees with KS's considerations, that the municipalities are missing NOK 1.5 billion to get this going.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1951	No, there is no agreement between the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge on those numbers. Local authorities have had an opportunity to influence what they themselves have used for kindergartens, and some have prioritised the kindergarten sector in addition to what is in the nursery lift. So what numbers we're talking about is there's no consensus between the local government and the local government. But I expect that through a constructive dialogue there will be a consensus on this. If we look at a little bit with a bird's eye view of what's happened on the kindergarten front over the last four years, we see that the government appropriations have almost doubled, from 14 to 27 billion kroner. It's the biggest single reform that's been going on in these four years, and it's probably also the most profitable thing that society has done, both for business, that needs labour, for parents, and not least for children, for which kindergarten is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1958	I do not understand that the Council of State does not fully understand how the Right Graduation of the Income of Kindergartens is going to take place. This is already happening in many municipalities and parts of Oslo, and it works well. It's not about my question. My question is that Sigbjørn Johnsen now announces tighter budgets, i.e. not increases in the welfare offer. Will the government choose welfare schemes that go to those who have the most in the past, which are aimed at sponsoring the middle class, rather than targeting measures for children and families with the least in the past? There are families who can't afford to send the kids to kindergarten. SV vote today against a proposal to allow young people to go to kindergarten and to participate in cultural and sporting activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1965	This is one of the major balances to be made in the Norwegian welfare model. I don't think a free health service is sponsoring the middle class and the richest people in Norway. I believe that neither is a free education system. I think it's a very important universal arrangement and right, which makes them willing to pay taxes according to their ability, even those who have quite good income. So it will always be supplemented by some more needs-tested schemes. But my view is that we are very well served to have broad arrangements and a low maximum price, for example. in kindergarten. That kindergartens have become 40 pst. cheaper, is an important investment to make as many children as possible go there. What's the truth about the Right proposal is that the net intensities for kindergarten parents are 500 million. kr, which is used for tax credits – it is after subtracting from the crowns that will be used to give people with low incomes more support for their kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1976	I find it hard to understand that the Council of States can say that you are very pleased with the broad arrangements that reach the vast majority, because they do not. In the evening post today, it says about a guy who got a whole new life, because he gets to go to the movies and to the football game. Fortunately, one of your representatives in the SV Storingsgruppe supports that proposal, and says that we will introduce this. At the same time, today you are voting against a proposal to help these kids participate in leisure activities, young people who do not have the opportunity to join the Scout and Corps. You're still taking away that opportunity. I can only understand that SV stands for credibility in the field of poverty, especially in relation to the poor children. You have voted against this for four years. You are voting against it today, and you are saying something quite different in the paper. In fact, I think the poor kids should get a clear answer from SV and not believe what they read in the paper, because there is something quite different than what SV is doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1982	The representative of Hofstad Helleland is so experienced that she knows that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1985	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1990	Decibel from the representative of Hofstad Helleland is violent in relation to the proposal that actually exists from the Right. As far as I can see, it's 10 or 15 million. kr Right proposes on a country-by-country basis for special support for children's leisure activities. So if we divide it by the number of children that might be in need of this right-hand definition, say that maybe it's every tenth of a child, that's 100 or 150 dollars per person. a child. I have not denied that there may be a need for special needs-oriented schemes for particularly vulnerable children, let's say children of parents who go to social assistance. That it is part of how to measure social assistance, that these children should be entitled to e.g.: a free leisure offer, I believe is a very relevant issue. This is because poverty in Norway is largely about being able to participate or not in those arenas where all children are. The proposal from the Right is not a violent revolution, but of course we should listen to a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e1997	The debate shows well-known ideological divisions in family policy. The debate also shows that there is broad agreement on some important lines of family policy. In this regard, I would like to express a little wish at these times: perhaps the Council of State could have time to write Christmas cards to the opposition during the budget debate. Otherwise, it is interesting to note how difficult it has been to combat poverty, also in relation to income-adjusted rates in kindergartens, after coming into government. The question concerns the Soria Moria point of removing the cash support for the two-year-olds. If we count on the state operating grant, plus investment grants, it will cost between 2 and 3 – up to 3 billion kroner to build kindergartens for the 18 696 two-year-olds in question. Is it the case with this point in the Soria Moria statement about removing the cash support for the two-year-olds, that it also needs to be seen in the light of economic developments, and that there might be one of the many promises that the Government cannot afford in this big time period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2006	I can assure the representative Hope that I am sending Christmas cards both to position and to opposition. Fortunately, we have such a quality in the Norwegian potion that we have a good tone, not least for Christmas, between the parties. So for future budgets. The representative of Hope knows that I can't go into the assessments of it. But it is correctly observed that stepping down the cash support and taking it away for two-year-olds will lead to the need to build more kindergartens, and will lead to more parents wanting a kindergarten. So there's no net gain for a government budget to remove the cash support, although many might think so at first sight. It has been remarkable that parents' freedom of choice has largely focused on the possibility of choosing kindergarten places for the larger children. We see how many people wanted it when they had the opportunity to do it. It is only among parents with a minority background that the proportion of those opting for cash support is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2015	My next line concerns the consequences of the goal of full child care coverage, which we have talked about many times today, related to the point in the Soria Moria statement to remove the cash support. The government's predecessor Øystein Djupedal used as an excuse when he was unable to fulfill the promise in time, to reach a moving goal, and thus it was very difficult to achieve the goal of full child care coverage within the time limit set by SV's party leader – and she would resign if not reached it. But then there is the question of the implementation of Soria Moria II: Do you want to wait to implement the promise to all of these places, or will you be able to carry out this promise before the places are ready, so that we actually cancel it again and go back to a queue situation for kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2020	We're going to get back to Stortinget with how we're going to realize this point in the Soria Moria statement. This is a point that will make more children come to kindergarten, and more young children's parents want a kindergarten. But I can't go here and now in detail about how we're going to realize it. Moreover, I may think that the representative, Håbreek, should be a little more liberal in the speech of the former representative and knowledge minister Djupedal and of the whole kindergarten reform. Firstly, it was Øystein Djupedal who in his time took the initiative for the whole kindergarten reform. It is in fact his initiative that has led to this violent escalation. And secondly, he's quite right that it's a moving goal, because there's a lot more children's parents want a kindergarten space for, than the Stortinget thought when we started the construction. It's a pleasure, because it makes many children have an opportunity, but it was demanding to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2027	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2030	We're in the middle of Advent. Many families and children are waiting for Christmas. They're waiting for the gifts, they're waiting for friends and old aunts, and they're waiting for a nice Christmas party. That's how kids should have it before Christmas. But many children fear themselves for Christmas. They're waiting for Christmas. They're waiting for Mom to be kicked and beaten. They're waiting for little sisters to be sexually abused – as they become themselves. They're waiting for Mom or Dad, or both, to be the senseless rush of Christmas. The money for Christmas presents went to full-time this year as well. They're waiting for care failure to get even worse than the rest of the year. This is the heartwarming reality for many children. "Please disturb!" is Redd Barna's campaign. It simply means that as adults we have to stick our noses into things where we know that it stinks of care failure. I would recommend all adults to watch the film "Sinner Man" – this to really get a beating heart for children who suffer. For the sake of children, we have to care more. Too many children carry cruel secrets. There is too much silence about violence and abuse against children in Norway. Save and silence children must not meet save and tame adults. We need strong and good child protection, which has enough competence, has enough money, has enough courage and strength, and has enough status and recognition to take care of children who suffer. This budget gives strong signals and leads both to the protection of the state and municipal children. It should be a first step on the road to complete upgrading of local child protection and better use of the resources of national child protection, as the Council of State said. We will follow closely that the 400 posts to which it is added will be placed in the municipalities. If this does not happen, we believe that the Storting must consider the sharper lye. We're in Adventtime. Many couples are waiting to adopt a child. Many have waited a very long time. Out there, a lot of kids are waiting for a good and safe home. It is time to take a complete review of the whole adoption policy. In October of this year, we got a NOW, Adoption – for the child’s best. Among other things, this should form the basis for the discussion on the adoption policy of the future, both in relation to foreign adoption and also for the adoption of Norwegian-born children. The processes are demanding and it must be possible to simplify the systems. Priority should also be given to the work of looking at several countries to adopt from. In the new year, the Committee shall examine amendments to the Adoption Act and the Child Protection Act. In this connection, we are going to the United Kingdom for, inter alia, to study their adoption practices. As is known, the UK adopts to a small extent foreign children, but has about one. 3000 domestic adoptions per year. Maybe we have something to learn? In any case, it is important that these matters are constantly seen from a child's perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2045	In the last month, Tronder-Avisa and other media have had an article series that shows a disturbing development. We have seen signs of a sharp increase in the number of people living in crisis centres, an increase in drop-outs in high school, major problems of bullying among young people, mental distress among young people, an increase in child protection, an increase in suicide statistics, and a pressure on children and young people in both mother and Internet. These are challenges that are individually very serious, but which in total make me have to ask the question: are we seeing the contours of a serious change in society? I believe at least that it is a serious understatement if parties on the Storting will use this development to point out that there is a party or government that does not do enough in relation to these sectors. I think the challenges are much more profound than we have so far been willing to discuss in Stortinget. As a response, the Family and Culture Committee is the last committee to discuss the budget of the Scientific Committees. Other committees, such as the Business Committee, have discussed what is being done in relation to the development of long-term disability and the increase in sick leave. The Health Committee has also discussed sick leave: what do we do in relation to mental health challenges, what do we do in relation to the challenges of suicide statistics? I'm sure the Knowledge Committee has discussed drop-outs in high school. The Justice Committee has had challenges in terms of crime. The Municipal Committee has discussed the costs of municipalities, for example: the increase in child protection. Each of the committees has tried to find the means to combat the signs of disease that you see. But what I think we haven't done enough about ourselves yet is that in this committee we have to succeed in the grips overall, if we are to deal with the challenges also in relation to other committees. If we don't succeed in this field, the problems will not only continue, but they will be reinforced in the years to come. Public can do a lot. We can facilitate families; we can provide opportunities for time with children through child care schemes – leave schemes, which may be the main key to many of the challenges I point to. Contact with children – especially that fathers may have contact with children – is in itself a prevention of violence. The child feels a greater degree of recognition, and more equal care for children leads to equality. We can do some action through kindergartens that have educational stuff, we can do something through a good school, through an increasingly better health care. We can do something by helping the children who are struggling and experiencing things, for example. break-in of the family. In terms of area by area, the Government also makes important efforts through a larger and more flexible parental pension scheme, through kindergarten to everyone, through the fact that we are also going to discuss the quality and content of kindergartens in the year to come, and by constantly working on school content, and by strengthening child protection. But we'll be short of all the time we don't see these challenges together and in context. Nothing helps the measures we take in this room or from the Government, if you don't do anything about the in-depth causes of the symptoms that we're constantly trying to put on. We can collect as much money as we want in all sectors, but nothing will help if not even the individual takes a greater responsibility to counter the challenges we face. The well-known child psychologist Magne Raundalen said in a debate I witnessed, that the purpose of being an adult is to protect children. That's very well said. And a good Christmas gift tip for those who are now troddling across the street to find the best offer and the best gift to give their children, might be to invest time with the child and to be interested in the child's development. If we get that interaction between parents who take responsibility and society that sees the whole field, we might be ready to do something about the deep causes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2064	In 2009, we reached the milestone that we legalised the right to children's playground for all children who are aged one year before the end of August of the year they are applying for a place. Through a targeted bet, we have gone from the fact that kindergarten space was a narrow offer that a few people got, that everyone gets the opportunity. This is a huge welfare reform that allows parents and others with care to participate in the professional life. The right to kindergarten is also a milestone on the way to providing a good childcare service to all children who need it. The government also says that in the long term there will be an objective to introduce a requirement for a minimum of two admissions per year to kindergartens. Keeping a low price and having full babysitting will also be important areas of activity to meet the objectives we have set ourselves. In order to meet this promise – as the kindergarten reform has been – in such a short time, it has been necessary to target efforts. Designation of grants to ensure the development of so many kindergartens has been a necessary step. It continues to be the case that the development of more orphanages will be important, but the focus on quality will gradually become more central. It can be about everything from localisation to content, competence requirements, organisation, opening hours — and there are many, many other issues. And as for so many of our other welfare services, it's the municipalities that are in many ways best placed to solve these challenges and take this responsibility. In terms of user needs and wishes, which are the basis for how we develop quality, it must also be the municipalities that are closest to meeting those challenges. If the municipalities are to take this responsibility, it is also reasonable that the decision-making authority is in the municipality. Kindergartens are an important part of the welfare offer, in line with schools, hospitals and health services. Then it is also natural that kindergartens should be financed in the same way as other welfare services. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government stresses that the local government sector should be primarily financed. Earmarked grants are primarily reserved for important national priority areas in a start-up phase. Therefore, it is also announced that the financing of kindergartens from 2011 will be included in the framework grant for municipalities. At that time, municipalities will be fully responsible for the kindergarten sector. It will provide a much simpler administrative system, but above all it will be a strength for municipalities to see kindergartens in connection with other municipal services. As designed by the statutory right to kindergarten, it constitutes primarily a minimum obligation for municipalities. When municipalities receive both the authority and the responsibility for the overall service, this sector will also be able to be given up and down according to local needs and wishes – and based on the governance of the elected authorities in each municipality. And I'm sure that our local elected representatives will provide adequate frameworks for kindergartens and do the right priorities, based on their municipality and the needs and challenges you see there. The assumption is, of course, that municipalities receive sufficient framework funding to discharge their responsibilities. Therefore, ensuring a robust local economy and financing state requirements and reforms is central. There is no secret — and the Council of State was in this place — that there has been disagreement between the Government and the KS about what is sufficient funding. The distance has been relatively large, but as far as I can see, there is a good dialogue going on, and I am sure that a unified solution is found to ensure that we also get funded kindergartens in the future. The rapid build-up in the number of places in kindergartens has been possible because there has been an expansion both in private and in public. Private kindergartens will also, in the foreseeable future, form an important part of the overall supply in the sector. That is why we have also said that it is an objective to ensure economic equality between public and private kindergartens. It will contribute to ensuring more equivalent pay and working conditions for employees. Then I need to stress that strengthening the funding of private kindergartens also needs to stimulate quality development of the offer. It's not supposed to be that the money is primarily going to give greater benefits to the owners who are there. It is not that the aim is to make the nursery sector a commercially interesting sector. The money we send to kindergartens is primarily the money of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2082	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2085	Kindergartenplatz was an offer for the few a few years ago. The first kindergarten law, 1975, gave children with disabilities priority to kindergarten to the extent that they benefited from their stay. Developments over the past ten years have shown a formidable rate of expansion, and it is now almost full child-care coverage. There has never been as much effort in kindergarten as in the previous growing-up period. With full needs coverage and low parental pay, participation in kindergartens will increase. Since 2005, the red-green majority has actually reduced the price by nearly NOK 1000 per person. months. We're going to bet on kindergartens. The aim of the working party is that all children should be guaranteed a high-quality and low-priced childcare facility. Kindergartens shall be a place of learning, play and care. The kindergartens are educational offers, but should not evolve to be equal to schools. The focus in recent years has shifted from attention to space and capacity to gradually increasing emphasis on quality and content in kindergartens. We believe that when full babysitting is achieved, it is time for a quality lift in kindergartens. We want kindergartens based on a comprehensive view of children and learning, because the kindergartens have developed over many years an identity related just to play, care, creation and learning. Even though the red-greens are heavily focused on kindergartens, some parents choose to stay home with the kids before they start school. Kinderhagen is a good preparation for school. It balances social differences and is good at including minority speakers. We have seen that when availability increases and the price decreases, more and more people choose to send their kids to kindergarten. The kindergartens were introduced to the Ministry of Knowledge since 2006 and were included as part of the training course. Kindergartens have the task of being the first step in a lifelong learning cycle. Our education policy is about increasing quality throughout the education cycle – from kindergarten to research. We know that knowledge is being built throughout life. If you are outside the early stages of education, the problems may shift further into life and give rise to differences in learning outcomes in primary, secondary and tertiary education, and in relation to misrepresentation in higher education. Kinderhagellifting and bets on quality in kindergarten are not just about kindergarten but about the basis for good knowledge development and social cohesion. Many childcare facilities and quality in childhood and youth provide the basis for more people to complete their secondary education. Good secondary education is a vital foundation for the education of those who are going to teach our children, care for our elderly and solve the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2098	We expect adults in our society to take responsibility for their choices. I think that is a reasonable claim for adults in a country like Norway. But then there are some citizens, residents, in our country who have no choice. There are those who are simply born into a situation, who cannot choose away, cannot choose any other caregivers, cannot choose another life. I think it's hard for most people in here, big-time representatives or anyone else who had to listen to, to imagine what it's like to be outside in one of the richest countries in the world. I think it's hard to imagine how painful it can be, how powerless you can be. And I think it's especially hard to imagine what it's like if you're born into the situation. Children do not choose their parents. Therefore, child poverty, children who are pushed out of the welfare community, children who are not being caught, are not being picked up, perhaps one of the greatest moral and ethical challenges we have in our welfare society. The government that is now sitting went to the elections to abolish poverty. During the election campaign we were then told that it was not possible to eliminate poverty, even poverty in an indefinite form singularly. It was difficult because the definition of poverty was complicated. I don't think the government parties think it's impossible to do anything about the poverty problems. Still, sometimes I get the impression that they talk more than they actually do. There are also some challenges with the whole approach of the Government to poverty policy. Because when they're talking about everyone going along, when they're talking about we having to make a big uplift for the big groups, I think they've lost some of the main points of the poverty challenge in Norway, that's that it's no longer about lifting the big masses and the big groups. Those who fall outside Norway today fall outside the cracks of our welfare society, they fall outside the gaps of our welfare society. This does not mean that we should not have broad welfare arrangements, but that means that what is going on is tailor-made, not trying to lubricate thinly to everyone. In today's evening post we could read a notice from Ålesund Municipality where they have done some of the things that the Right has always stood for in the policy, namely to try to adjust the efforts towards those who need it the most. A cultural card has been introduced, so that people who have children who grow up without good advice will have a chance to enjoy cultural activities, participate in the same way as everyone else. The right has invested 35 million in its alternative budget. extra kr to the type of measure. In the evening post today, SVs Karin Andersen says that she is in favour of this type of action. My question, which I think someone from the government parties has to answer, is, Where has it become of money for this? It doesn't just keep talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2109	It's a pleasure to listen to the history description of the kindergarten agreement, especially from the district council Halvorsen. Because it really sounds like there was room that was the most important thing for SV when you started the kindergarten development. Then I have to remind you, I was one of those who was in the committee, and I was in the negotiations around it, that there was just no room that was the most important, but the price. Every time we talked about space being more important, it was made as if it were a resistance to kindergartens. That's why I'm particularly pleased now to hear Kristin Halvorsen say that there's just room SV highlights as the important result of the kindergarten agreement, which the whole Storting actually came together about. But there have been other issues that have been discussed today, and there has been a long discussion about fathers' rights and cardboard. After the first four weeks were introduced, the matter remained quite silent historically for many years. It was only in the Bondevik era that things began to happen both with the extension of the number of weeks and independent rights for fathers on their own merits. For the Christian People's Party, time is father and children have together, valuable in themselves. It's not just a question of someone being there to take care of the children, but the tapes that are created in the first year of their life pass on results. Gender equality has led to a higher distribution in the home when it comes to child-related tasks, although it can also be said that working time studies show that fathers have a little left over to participate in the other household work at home. But the discussion now is that we need to continue to regulate this in order to increase the relationship between father and child. There has probably been a clear government council before, he wants both coercion and equal thirds. In the first place, we might get a little scratched in the eye of equality, but we should not forget that the fight for equality is about having rights that make it possible for women to combine family life and work. If we make that door too tight, we can risk the pendulum swinging, and what so many before we have fought for is gone. Not everyone feels like super-mothers who manage to get back to work early, meet breast-feeding expectations, career expectations and be present. As a rule, we're going to look great as well. In the districts, such coercion will be even more challenging. Long journey makes the nurse's break just become a Soria Moria in the distance. No, I think it's important to have a flexible paperback, and that we should get the 6,500 fathers who don't get the chance to be with their children. They have their own right that they should be allowed to exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2120	I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals of the Left distributed in the Chamber, with the exception of proposal No. 34, which also applies to the previous framework that we treated. Since relatively few of the speakers in the debate have been in consumer policy, I would like to stress the point raised by the Christian People's Party in the vote, which has received support from the opposition, that there is a need for a review of the environmental labelling schemes that have public support. Consumers' environmental choices are one of the most effective instruments we have in environmental policy, because when consumers choose correctly, we do not have to go along with different regulations, regulations, charges, etc. It is an effective environmental policy. Today, the situation is that various publicly supported labelling schemes, such as the Eco-label Foundation and Enova, compete in the same areas. It is ineffective, and I challenge the Council of State to look at it, even though it seems that the proposals of the Christian People's Party do not get a majority. The debate has shown that there are slightly different positions among government parties related to the role of men in relation to children, and their own children and the importance of fathers. While the representative Ramsøy and the Council of State Lysbakken in their speeches are very concerned about stressing the struggle to get fathers even more on the job in relation to the responsibility for their own children, we see that the head of the family committee is concerned with stressing that, unlike women, men cannot have children, and thus want laws and regulations that separate men's responsibilities for their own children from women's responsibilities for their own children. Councillor Lysbakken knows that I am listening very carefully when he is talking about a stepping-up plan for child protection. However, there is a stepping-up plan in cooperation with municipal child protection municipalities to which the Council of State refers. We know a little about how many weaknesses that kind of escalation and the kind of bet can have, as long as there are no tighter instruments put behind it. Therefore, we need a national child-restraint plan, a common promise with clear deadlines and a clear objective of full child-restraint coverage. However, I record at the end of the debate that the Government cannot refer to plans and strategies that are close to meeting the goal of full child protection. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Finance has taken a seat in the Chamber when we talk about that. I have the hope that we have a finance minister who has been in charge and should know well about the serious situation in child protection, and that it will help the State Council Lighthouse to put in place the necessary effort so that we can achieve the goal of full child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2133	On the one hand, it is very good that the Right uses this debate to talk about child poverty. It's kind of a new dimension in the Norwegian political change of words. But I have to say that when, in post-intervention reports, species become like a continuous attack on universal welfare systems, I am a bit stunned, and not just a little bit, because in the position of the Distribution Committee, it is a very clear recommendation, and that is that the key to doing something about the poverty problem is to strengthen and maintain just universal welfare systems. This contrast is played on – here is a lot of rhetorical talk about the big money going to the well-concealed majority, etc. – is helping to cover what is an important reality in the fight against poverty, namely that work against poverty and work against differences is very closely linked. In this way, a recipe for contentment with spending small amounts of money on limited measures is very fast, while this government has always chosen to spend large amounts of money on large measures, such as the use of drugs. Kindergartens and SFOs, as we know, work in the fight against child poverty, but in addition run steps and create targeted individual measures, such as: those included in the budget currently under consideration, related to child and youth actions in larger urban communities, where there is just money for grants, inter alia. holiday and leisure activities. The challenge we have attached to those – at least between 2005 and 2007 – 60,000 poor children in Norway, children living in persistent poverty, is much greater than what can be achieved by a cultural card scheme alone. But I say, just as Karin Andersen said in the evening post, that the Right's proposal is one example of one type of thinking that can be important in order to facilitate the everyday life of some poor children. That's the way we think about it. Of course, this is not the case, as the representative Gina Barstad said, that the government has a monopoly on good ideas. Good ideas from the Right, we're happy to accept. But we also need to focus on what solves the poverty challenge, and then it's not going to matter that the big, wide, universal arrangements, the fight against differences, are important. I want to add another thing, too, which gets too little attention when we discuss child poverty: child poverty in Norway has a very clear ethnic dimension. This means that the work to get, among other things. More women with a migrant background into working life are one of the most important things we can do to combat child poverty. Then I just want to say cards to the representative Øyvind Hope that I see that Christian People's Party among others. has made a proposal for a review of those labelling schemes. I'm a little surprised at that, really, because there's a committee comment that asks for very much of the same. That's something I have a significant sense of. When Stortinget asks for it, we will of course follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2146	Lone minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group with special needs for follow-up. However, children and young people in particular are entitled to equal protection and care in line with Norwegian children and young people. There is broad consensus that a transfer of care responsibilities to the protection of children is the best way to ensure better care for single minor asylum seekers. Everyone agrees that these children without close care need proper follow-up, care and care. Therefore, in the spring of 2008, Stortinget adopted a legislative amendment that transferred responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers from foreign agencies to child protection. In the first place, child protection was to take over responsibility for those under 15 years of age. The government promised in the 2008 state budget that responsibility for them between 15 and 18 years of age would be transferred during 2009. In the 2009 budget, the transfer of responsibility was suspended indefinitely, and in Soria Moria II, the government dropped cats out of the bag and concluded that the lone minor asylum seekers over the age of 15 would not be transferred to child protection during this ageing period. The Christian People's Party believes that children who come to Norway alone are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and are concerned about the follow-up this group has. We believe that the best interests of the child should govern the provision of care to the lone minor asylum seekers, in line with other children for whom public care is also provided. The treatment of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers shows that the Government does not take seriously the rights of children and the special right of children to protection and care. I am particularly disappointed that the government does not find room to give these children a real deal when millions of dollars are spent on other groups that have a much stronger position in society. The Christian People's Party proposes that the responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age be transferred from the foreign authorities to the protection of children from 1 January 2011. The hope is that the government parties will vote in favour of our proposal. It is never too late to turn when the matter is important enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2161	There is every reason to welcome a broader discussion on poverty, and in particular child poverty, in Norway. Let me just make sure that I'm not going to add up to that whole discussion right now, but that's a point, as the Council of Lights says, that it's also important with broad welfare arrangements. It's e.g. a point to combat child poverty that you have a school where everyone has equal opportunities, not a school that we have today, that reproduces differences. We've been in that situation in Norway that, despite all our celebrations, we have a school where what determines most of what you get out of school is, to put it on the top, how many books your parents have in the bookshelf. It's a breach of our whole ambition and our intention at school. I fear that the Council of State Lighthouses has misunderstood a little what this debate is all about. It's actually not like this anymore that poverty is about huge groups in Norwegian society. On the contrary, it's concentrated, and that's exactly why we also have to use concentrated instruments. We have to put in the measures where they help most. For example, when a maximum price was introduced in kindergartens in Norway’s capital, which we are now in, it did not help the poorest in the capital. They had to pay more for kindergartens after the maximum price came, because here they had a system where those who had a lot paid a lot for a nursery, while those who had little paid less. When it was decided to spend the large amount of money on lubricating everything thinly, it resulted in a bigger bill every month for those who had the worst income in our capital, which is also one of the cities in all of Norway that has the most problems with poverty. This is a poor policy of poverty. Whether it is good or bad kindergarten policy, discussions have taken place earlier today. This is precisely why there is a major difference between the Government’s approach to poverty and the Right’s approach to poverty. We're going to bet on the broad welfare systems, we're going to bet on a health care system for everyone, we're going to bet on a school that works -- we're going to bet on all this -- not to talk about getting people over from welfare schemes and back to work. But where it really applies, where we can really make a difference, is when we go in and help those who have been pushed out – like, for example. The 15-year-old from Ålesund, who in the evening post today says that the chance to experience a cultural offer, to be included, to make it possible for almost all other 15-year-olds in Norway to do so, was what made a difference. A few years ago, it was characterised as a poverty fund policy, and one was afraid that it would be stigmatizing to receive help. I certainly believe that what is actually stigmatizing is that it's going to be outside and stay out there – without anyone reaching you a helping hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2174	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2177	Thanks – I don't need any more. I underlined in my contribution the importance of good and effective eco-labelling schemes, cf. proposal No 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The Council of State has confirmed that he wishes to follow up on the intentions of this proposal. I look forward to it, and on behalf of the proposers, I would like to transform the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2184	The representative of Mr Øyvind Håbreek has made the proposal to which he referred, on a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2188	It was the representative Dagrun Eriksen who – when she was in a little mimre tone about what it was like to negotiate the kindergarten agreement here in Stortinget – was so loving to remind us of how much disunity it really was when it was about the importance of reducing the price of a kindergarten. It's true that it was controversial. And if I'm going to make a real mistake, I can tell you about the years 1993 and 1994, when I had two children in two different private kindergartens and paid 4000 kroner every place. That's how it was too many. The nursery arrangement has resulted in a marked reduction in the price of a nursery place. It's an important welfare asset, which has benefited a lot of parents. It is the largest tax haven in many decades that young children’s parents have received. Now it's the Right who wants to reverse this tax bill to parents with grandchildren. They increase the price of kindergarten by NOK 0.5 billion net, which they will use for tax relief in general. There is a tax tightening of NOK 2 200 per year for grandchildren with one child in kindergarten. When we discuss differences and distribution, it's important to see the big picture. The big picture is that we get a lot of important welfare goods because we pay taxes, and we have to pay taxes according to our ability. Then there will always be someone who does not reach through the universal arrangements or through tax reliefs, and there is a need for schemes to make these. But making it a great ideology to pick value-needing and direct all efforts against them, can help not only stigmatize people, but lock them in poverty traps. If you have an income graded kindergarten rate, income graded SFO rate, income graded culture and leisure rate, etc., a single mother with a part-time job could risk having to pay full-time in the SFO, full-time in the kindergarten, lose cultural grants – and had to thank you for the full-time job. So there are balances here. I have to say that it has given many effects in Norwegian policy that SV has become a government party. One of the joyous effects is that the Right has suddenly begun to discover child poverty. I think it is very important, because in 2009 in Norway, children affected by poverty experience exclusion. If you can get any further because in the debate there is a great focus on solutions for these, it's very good. But to make it an ideology to try out needs as much as possible, and that is the best welfare state, I would warn very strongly against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2203	I would hate for the representative of the Red Isaksen's posts to stand as a dot in the poverty debate. There has been an important round, and it is quite right – as the representative points out – that there are important differences between the approach of the Government and the Right to the problem of poverty. The main difference is not the question of broad welfare schemes or tailoring, for the Government is for both. The main difference is whether we see a clear link between the fight against differences – against social divisions – and poverty. And if we look at the world around us, we see that there's a very clear context. Countries with small differences also have less poverty. That is why the issue of a fair distribution policy and of ensuring that we have a welfare policy that makes the gaps that the representative is talking about not arise so crucial. When I let myself fire up a bit in the debate, it's because I think the Right took on very strong words today. I have to say that being accused of betrayal of poor children because we do not support the concrete proposal on cultural cards – when we have a number of other proposals for appropriations that go in the same direction, namely concrete actions to bet on, among others. leisure and holiday services for children – provokes me. I allow myself to be provoked because this charge comes from a party that, in its alternative state budget, does not allow the large money to go to poor children, but allows the large money to go to the tax havens to just the wealthy majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2212	One shall be careful – when one has been here for so long – with just becoming a storyteller. But I think it's sometimes important to remember the Greatness of what has actually been. I feel it enough that the Council of State Halvorsen makes the differences bigger than what they actually were at the time, because everyone agreed that the price of a nursery place was too high. The question was, what should we do first? Should we get kindergartens, or should we reduce the price? And I sat around the table in so many of those negotiations that I know very well how these discussions went. What I think was a little bit of a challenge was that it wasn't a reduced price that gave more places. It was important to reduce the price, but it was when the investment grant came on the table, which was actually the Bondevik government's proposal, that the expansion increased, because then it paid off for those who were going to build the kindergartens, to put in the places they needed. Now, when we're going to see it in the light of history, it's about recognising that the discussion about price was important, but not least the discussion about the number of places was one of the things that got us speeded up in the expansion, and the families of young children were given a real freedom of choice, they were given the opportunity to choose kindergarten as an alternative. But not just to end up in history, I'd say we're now facing some challenges. There we cross the border from not the budget we are discussing today, but to what we discussed last week, namely the school budget and the SFO, because now the discussion starts again: are we going to bet on reduced prices and the maximum price on the SFO? Or are we going to bet on quality-raising, multiple places, income-grading and sibling-moderation, maybe across the SFO and kindergarten, to give more opportunities to be there? I just want to remind the story that we can use some of the experiences we gained in the nursery arrangement, not to look at us blindly at the fact that price actually gives neither increased quality nor more places and good places, but it may be possible to use other tools to achieve quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2221	I don't remember if it was the State Council Halvorsen or the State Council Lysbakken who thought that the Right made the question of tailoring or broad solutions to an ideological question, and then you were kind of critical of it. Of course, it is an ideological question, and it is also important to raise it as such, not least in the light of the fact that we have now had a government that has dealt with the problem of poverty and many social arrangements precisely from – I would say – a rather blatant ideological point of view. A debate like ours, for example. has been spared by the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion today on the issue of private or public solutions in the field of child protection. It has been more important for the Government to be concerned about who should not be allowed to offer good solutions to the most disadvantaged in this society, namely those of child-restraint children who have been in private institutions. This has been more important for them than actually finding solutions for a few children who are among the most vulnerable in our society. It's ideology on its purest. It's also the case that the Right has not been based on the description of the State Council of the Halvorsen, that is, that the Lone Mother would not get any of the benefits you get today. I mean, it's explaining a problem. The problem is that the big, wide solutions run out of farms with so much money that even with the incredibly good economy that our country has, we're struggling when we're going to find a few million to the tailor's eye. It's a very big cross of thought. I have to say that if you make the broad solutions to ideology – which I feel the position is doing – yes, then we're really ready for the quarter society. Then we're really ready to sacrifice those who need good solutions most, for the benefit of the wide range of middle-class voters like the government later to want to be drawn, and who use large parts of the government budget to meet, whether they need it or not. This cannot be either – or, this must be both – and, but the balance point is not where it should be. The point of balance today is that we spend a lot of money on many people who don't need it, while we have a relatively small group that falls through, and that could actually need not only a little bit more help, but much more help.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2232	If the representative Thommessen believes that the Right has done a good job of protecting me from the debate on the distribution of private and public solutions in the field of child protection, I would just like to say that this debate is more than I would like to be prepared for, so please take it up next time. So the reason why the government has prioritised what we've done, and what we're going to continue to do, is not ideology, but a very clear view of what it is that we're going to spend every penny on what we're supposed to do, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's not ideology. We've done the priorities we've done, because we want to use unused capacity in state institutions, and because we want to make sure that every single penny we spend on child protection goes to it, and not, for example. to dividends from commercial institutions. And then we've done it because we want a development, which has been a broad political consensus, towards having fewer institutional positions and more home-based measures, and other types of action, because we think it's best for children. And then I see that instead it's the Right that has made it a big question of principle to make sure that, in the future, we're still going to have the pretty big imbalance we have in the relationship between public and private institutions, and that makes it a big question to maintain the commercial institutions' share of this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2239	One of the privileges you have when you're a government council is that speaking time is unlimited. As the magnification representatives run out of time, we can just come over and over again. Just a few short comments in the end. I'm probably among those in Norway who have had the most sleepless nights because of kindergartens, and because it's been incredibly important to be able to get babysitting for all children. That's the most important investment we've made. What became very clear to us was how the price and demand for a nursery place were closely linked. We know that many more than we thought when we started to implement the children's hail, we wanted a nursery place. It may have been for reasons of conviction or well-being. It is quite obvious that the price and price reduction in itself were also involved in triggering a greater queue than we had thought. So going the balance between reduced price and full coverage meant that every time you got full coverage with a new price, and then the price went down again, the queue just increased. That's the way it is. That means that we have full coverage today with a price of NOK 2 330. If we get free kindergarten, there might be more suddenly if it were to be the policy. – Now we have promised nothing more than to freeze the price of NOK 2 330. And so in order for the misunderstanding of Right Economic Policy and Distribution Policy not to stand for eternity, I just have to say, it's not like the Right State Budget increases the burden on the middle class in order to strengthen the response to those who are suffering from poverty. What is the truth about the babysitting budget to the Right is that they increase the parental payment for those who have children in kindergarten, and then they spend half a billion dollars on the income to lubricate their own tax system. The distribution profile in the Right tax line is that those who have income of more than 3 million. kr, gets more than 70000 kroner in tax bills from the Right. So you take from kindergarten children and their parents and distribute to millionaires. That way, it is true that a few million dollars are also distributed to more graduated payments in kindergartens, but that is not exactly a net gain for young children's parents. Moreover – to the debate that has taken place earlier: the Municipality of Oslo had full freedom to keep low rates for those who had low revenues in connection with the Barnehage reform. Many municipalities did.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2252	Well, state councils can take the word as many times as they like, but we are many who care about this! This is important. [[Laughter]] So we can keep going for a while at least. The case is the following – to the State Council of Halvorsen: In fact, the right has a poverty rate of 500 million. kr more than the Government. Otherwise, I guess it's not that we know exactly what we're spending on one of these heads in relation to what we're spending on the other of these heads. Now it was really to the Council Lighthouse I would like to make some comments. He wanted a debate on the private children's protection providers. The government parties and the Right can argue so that we become green in the face about whether we should have private commercial players or not. We can do that for a long time. I think it's a little unreasonable that those who are going to suffer for this are the children who actually don't get space and stand in line. That's the way it is. If it is that the government parties will definitely phase out the private actors, then do so, but make sure that there is a public offer there instead, so it does not go beyond anyone. It has not been provided by the Government in the years this has been a theme. On the contrary, there have been major problems in organising an entire establishment and using the funds in a useful way. One has developed a system called Multifunk, and it is quite a long way to say that it is a system that meets the needs of the cuts in terms of capacity or method compared to the private actors. So to this with dividends. Honestly! The State is the only buyer of this service. The state has enormous competence. It's in a difficult place. And then shouldn't the government be able to make agreements that keep track of how much you spend in the private institutions? This is not exactly an area where someone has become rich. This is an area where there are many private actors – often in the context of public institutions. They have a method, and they have a desire to do something for these children. They are stopped because you don't want these kinds of institutions. It is a minimum professionalism of the state's child protection system that you have to be able to handle this. There is full transparency in all investments and full transparency in all accounts. Then it's hard to talk about not being able to control, that this is money that goes straight into the pantyhose of speculators.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2269	The President would point out that the word 'deaf' is not very parliamentary. The President makes it clear that the time for the morning meeting is immediately over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2274	I'm not going to take a long time. I'll just give a brief comment to the representative Thommess. There is no one who has talked about ‘stepping out the private actors’ in child protection, but we have talked about doing something about the balance between public and private providers, which is a completely different sector than in the other sectors where we usually discuss this issue. Then we've talked about making better use of state capacity. It's very difficult for me to understand that the right is not concerned with us taking full advantage of the public institutions we have, and prioritizing them first. It is also difficult for me to understand that the Right, which is very often concerned with the contribution of NPISHs to the welfare state, is going to have problems with the policy of the Government by giving the ideal actors precedence over the pure commercial actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2283	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2286	The government parties used the term ‘phase-out’ about the private actors, at least for two to three years, until one was found together with the Christian People's Party and agreed that the so-called ideal actors should perhaps be found another place. A system has been set up that systematically prioritises private operators at the lowest level. When they're at all included, it's because the public system and the system of the ideal actors do not have enough capacity. That's what this is all about. It is not about the fact that there is an unused public offer there and waiting, it is about the fact that the public is not enough to solve the problems you are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2294	Several have not asked for the word to appear in Box 2 of case No. 1 and case No. Two and three. Case No. 1-4 has thus been debated. We have a long meeting in front of us tonight, so the president goes on to the next case. [[Votation, see pages 1347, 1367 and 1368]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2314	No one has asked for the floor. The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. [[Fotation, see page 1369]] The budget is now interrupting its negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2348	During the financial crisis, as we have experienced a number of times, strong measures have been put in place in this country to secure us against high unemployment and loss of skills and competitiveness. The measures have worked, and although the uncertainty is still there, Norway is on its way out of the financial crisis. The matter we are dealing with today includes, among other things: schemes that have had and are of major importance for industry and other export-oriented business, taking into account how they have dealt with the financial crisis. We also deal with instruments to help secure value creation and development in future Norway. I want to mention some of the tools. This applies in particular to areas where the opposition has submitted comments. The Export Credit Guarantee Institute, GIEK, has had a large increase in activity in 2008 and 2009. This is one of the most central measures of the Government’s policy to counteract the impact of the financial crisis on export-oriented business. It is therefore positive that it is proposed to continue the extended guarantee framework under the scheme. There is still considerable uncertainty about the shipbuilding industry and the offshore and supply industries, and this still calls for a high level of preparedness. Within the scope of the GIEK, a guarantee scheme has been proposed for long-term power contracts for power-intensive industries. This mechanism enables GIEK to provide guarantees, within the framework of the EEA Agreement, under commercial conditions, for the purchase by power-intensive industries of power. This is to replace the jurisdictional agreements we no longer have the opportunity to apply. The work on this scheme has been going on for a long time and has been complicated to achieve. Now a system has been put in place with which both industry and trade unions are satisfied. It includes activities in wood, timber and wood processing, chemical products and metals and will help ensure that the powerful industry continues its development in Norway. In parts of the country, this industry represents almost the whole of the export-oriented industry. That is why I am satisfied with the guarantee system that is now in place, and I must say that I read the comments from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left with some wonder on the occasion of the case. Another area I want to mention is the Research and Innovation Fund. When we talk about development in business and society, research and development are one of the most central elements. We've been putting a lot of effort into this area in the last few years. In our discussion, we discussed the Research Communication, Climate for Research, which gave leadership to the priorities of the research field. Next year, the fund's capital increases by DKK 5 billion, and the fund is now NOK 77 billion. This means that the Fund can contribute to increased research and development efforts. In the research community, the lack of new and updated scientific equipment has been called for. To ensure this, two thirds of the increased return is earmarked for the purpose. That's good. Research and development will be central to the development of Norway as a knowledge nation, and there is no doubt that this will continue to be a field of activity for us. I am pleased that we have established regional research funds. Unlike the Progress Party, I do not believe that the creation of these funds will lead to further fragmentation of research efforts in Norway. On the contrary, I think it is absolutely necessary that research and development also become more central throughout the country. We depend on developments in both business and society wherever we live, not least because we do not have more practical research in key areas such as health, care, kindergarten and school. Getting more research also regionally could contribute to the development of our welfare services. Regionally-initiated research projects may also enable participation in national and international research projects in the next round. The regional level — whether it be the county municipality, regional colleges or other research and development environments — has a greater overview of what is happening in local and regional industries than a central research environment will have. In this way, I believe that the regional research funds can help ensure that the industry in the districts is also more involved in research and development. It's necessary if we're to achieve the long-term objective of 3 pst. research and development shall be undertaken by GDP. That's something that the opposition also points out as important. Government parties agree with the proposals in the proposal and believe that next year's efforts will help to support the development of business and society. We are pleased that there is still a strong focus on the financial crisis and its follow-up, so that we avoid increasing unemployment and loss of skills and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2369	The Ministry of Finance's own budget chapter is quite interesting. It might as well be interesting to be here and experience this debate and hear what topics are being mentioned here in the Chamber today, because experience can often be a little shaky. I don't intend to go through all the issues in the budget setting, but I want to mention someone. First of all, I would like to make it clear that earlier in its alternative budget proposal for 2010, the Progress Party has proposed a number of budget cuts for the operation and administration of the Ministry of Finance. As these framework proposals did not receive a majority, therefore, we do not now promote proposals for appropriations under the framework area 21. As in previous years, the Progress Party recalls that expenditure related to public administration continues to increase only in recent decades. This also applies in the field of the Ministry of Finance. Particularly thoughtful is the fact that, despite the fact that the Government – and former governments, for that matter – implements a number of reorganisations, efficiency measures, and not least more and more smarter ICT solutions, we do not see that expenditure goes down or that it leads to fewer employees. Now that we've been in the last year, and still in, a global financial crisis, the vast majority of private companies go through their business, the whole organization, and think creatively to see if there are things you can do smarter to rationalize and streamline. But to what extent is this done successfully in the area of the Ministry of Finance? New computer systems are being introduced and even newer computer systems are planned for 2010. But is it being budgeted with more efficiency? Do you believe that this will lead to less work and possibly less need for more employees? Yesterday, the Control and Constitutional Committee held a debate here in the main hall where they, among other things, debated the criticisms of the National Audit Office. I would also like to draw attention to the Riksrevisions and criticisms in the Ministry of Finance, in particular that the Riksrevision has repeatedly addressed the lack of electronic reporting of excise duties. The National Audit Office already addressed this in a letter to the Directorate of Customs and Fees on 11 May 2004. The Directorate then informed them that it was aimed at implementing electronic reporting during the 2004–08 strategy period and that this would be a priority task. Nevertheless, for several years, electronic reporting has been mentioned in the company’s letter of allocation as a tool for reducing the reporting burden on business. The Riksrevisen therefore points out again that the customs and charging seat continues to register manually the submitted charging tasks in the charging system, AFS. I have now correctly registered that the Ministry of Finance states that the AFS changes during this year, so that the system can receive electronic excise duties. And maybe it's already introduced? In that case, I would assume that this means less work the next financial year. As of 1 March of this year, the tariff and levy rate had a total of 1 763 annual works. In the event of a change in customs and levy policy, as well as an improvement in the efficiency of the establishment, inter alia: with more use of modern computer systems and software, this number should not increase any more. Only by increasing the use of multiple cameras at border crossings should this lead to a simpler job for customs and more effective control over borders. More cooperation with the police and the military border guards and more police authorities at customs would also provide more efficiency. Altered fiscal, fiscal and customs policies would also have led to a smaller need for increased resources. For example, the cost of administering the inheritance tax next year is estimated to be around 70–80 million. kr. The removal of the inheritance tax, which the Progress Party and other parties want, would also result in cutting red tape. The same applies to a number of other tax rules. For example, the removal of document taxes, property taxes and property taxes — and not least a flat tax system — would undoubtedly have led to a smaller need for a large bureaucracy — just think of Equation ABC, a thick book with a small font size of over 1,400 pages on the tax system in Norway. And then we have the customs tariff. There we find a lot strange. For example, it's a 6.4 pst rate. on woven gloves, while knitted gloves have a customs duty of 7 pst. Gloves made of artificial textile fibres have a duty rate of 10,7 p.m., but gloves made of cotton and leather gloves are exempt from customs duty. The question is why we should have customs duty on gloves at all. In the course of the last few days’ debate on zero-tax contributors, those working in international organisations, etc., both the Chair of the Financial Committee and the Minister of Finance announce a thorough review of this whole field, because it is old-fashioned laws and regulations. I hope that in 2010 the Government will also be able to review the customs tariff – here there are very many old and outdated customs rules – and other tax rules that create unnecessary additional work. In conclusion, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2392	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2395	Unfortunately, the right has had its alternative state budget reduced. We don't intend to have any rematches on the other things, but we want to re-examine the suggestions mentioned in the setting on page 45, which goes largely on funds. One is that the Right believes that the Government has spent too little money on higher education over a long time, including on fund provisions. We've been involved in increasing the appropriations in the past. The President has forgotten to take the time – there are still 5 minutes left on me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2402	No speaking time has been set, so the representative can speak as long as he likes. But he shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2405	How nice, President! What we have always done is to increase the allocation of the general research fund. What we're doing this year is we're taking the signals that have come from universities and colleges, seriously, that there's a frightening shortage in updating scientific equipment. Therefore, the Right wishes to establish a new scientific equipment fund. We're adding NOK 10 billion to that fund, which is then going to contribute to a good annual return to address the screaming deficiency. So in addition, we want to strengthen the Norwegian cultural memory fund by 100 million. kr. Many local politicians from all parties and not least from outsiders, i.e. people who want to take care of the cultural heritage in Norway, both in terms of buying, owning and caring for old buildings and properties, which they are required to make by different state agencies – also county municipalities and municipalities – feel that it is the state that decides, while the owners themselves are responsible for paying everything. That is why the Right has said that we want a contribution of 100 million. kr to a fund that can assist landowners who will do something positive for the whole nation when they are required by the State to do so. I record that the representative Kristoffersen did not entirely have the sense of right-wing comment regarding long-term power agreements. I can tell the representative Kristoffersen that the right is very pleased with that remark, for some of the things that the Workers' Party went to election the previous time were to get an industrial power regime. The whole point of an industrial power regime, as representatives of the red-green parties said during the election campaign, was to obtain stable, cheap power and energy. The guarantee provided by the Government supports the Right. But the right point in its comments to a whole bunch of measures before supporting it. Among other things, the Right would not have returned home. When it was down, we would postpone the fall back, so that the power industry would get through the crisis years that are coming in view of future investments. And then it also fell, we said that we would also have a lease agreement with the state and its actors – for an unlimited duration. And then it fell, we said it should at least be 40 years. Then came the state's option by 20 years. So when we know that some of these investments to be made by the power companies or other large power producers – aluminium producers or whatever they do – are investments of more than DKK 1 billion, it is investment that has to be taken over more than the 20 years that the Government spends. That's why we have a sharp remark that says that the government has not only run away from its promises, they have now actually carried out their election vow in a completely different form than what many were led to believe. So it's like we also have a note that we follow up from our budget, where we strengthen the credit supervision in these bad times. We have said that the free market must be regulated. The free market depends on the fact that the State has a credit supervision that works. In this way, there is fair competition and good conditions for users of financial services. Then, too, climate quotas are discussed not only in Copenhagen but also in comments and alternative government budgets. So one environmental effect of environmental allowances is to buy environmental allowances and then don't use them. These include: the right makes sense in its proposal to the state budget, where we say that 1.5 million. tonnes of CO2 shall not be resold in the market. In other words, it won't release. It is a major contribution from the Right to a more environmentally friendly Norway and a contribution to everything. So it's like the government is tearing down in the first place in terms of the follow-up to the national transport plan. That's why the Right has tried to take an extra DKK 1 billion in our usual state budget, and then we have set up a maintenance fund of NOK 50 billion, which is estimated to provide an annual return of NOK 2 billion for the maintenance of our roads, with which we are struggling. That's the kind of thing we've taken. In addition, we have the CLIMIT fund of 1 billion kroner, which is going on CO2 capture. We also have a reduced use of oil money. But I want to repeat it and take up again Right-wing proposals on research funds, infrastructure funds, environmentally friendly technology funds, cultural memory funds and CLIMIT funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2428	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President is obliged to draw attention to this and will stress that it is the committee that is proposing a debate. For this debate it has been proposed so-called free debate. That usually means there won't be very many long posts. But for the sake of order, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the Storting apply, with a limit of 30 minutes at the first post and 10 minutes at the second post. But this is a free debate. The next post comes from the representative Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2435	I hope I can keep an article that will raise the President's attention. We are not taking a new debate on our alternative budget. I just want to point out some elements from the Christian People's Party budgetary options that affect the Ministry of Finance. Firstly, we have a black economic package to strengthen our work towards the black economy. There, I think there's a lot to pick up still, through a collaboration between both the Tax Agency, the Ecokrim and the Customs Authority. We also have a proposal to strengthen the ethical work of the State pension fund and the work of the Ministry of Finance in this context, by 2 million. kr. Not least in view of the fact that the share now increases from 40 p.m. And soon it's 60 p.m., we think it's a timely proposal. The Christian People's Party also strengthens the Energy Fund and the Research Fund and adds EUR 4 billion to Statnet's equity. We also believe that this is a good proposal in these environmental times. These are the most important proposals from the Christian People's Party in this field, and I take that up with our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2446	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2449	The case today concerns the issues directly under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. First, a few comments on the priority areas of the Ministry of Finance. The first is the State pension fund — Foreign. The risk of loss is now significantly greater than it has been in the past. The financial crisis is continuing to enter into new eras, including: large government debt is a theme that needs to be given greater attention. Both the United States and a number of EU countries now have so significant sovereign debt that it leads to a very demanding economic situation, both through a reduction in public demand and, if necessary, increased taxation of the population — both will lead to a reduction in demand, with similar consequences for industry. We also see in a number of other countries that the financial crisis is such that the values associated with the country are so low that political solutions are emerging towards the nationalisation of companies – a question that the management of the State pension fund – has addressed abroad as a major challenge. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance says that one will work on the financial crisis and questions in that context, and I expect the Financial Crisis Commission to come up with some of the investigations that the Ministry of Finance will look into. There are great expectations of that work — on a thing of establishing a common sense of reality as to why a person got into the crisis and how one could get out of it, thus providing the basis for a new financial regulation legislation, both internationally and nationally. The main reason for the financial crisis was that the financial sector itself evolved into being the construction itself, which it can never be. The financial sector must constantly be settled around the real economy. So it's to hope that the financial crisis leads to a greater focus on real economic solutions. The third theme highlighted by the Ministry of Finance is the work on sustainable development and climate issues. Here we have both national climate action and the purchase and sale of climate allowances internationally. As you know, the purchase of allowances is cheaper than reducing own emissions, and that leads to strong forces wanting to put even greater emphasis on the purchase and sale of allowances. However, we know that the climate quota market is functioning poorly, and in the low economic climate, as we now have, the price of climate quotas is low. As a result, the instruments put in place have little effect on the improvement of the environment. I would also like to draw attention to a chronicle in today's version of the Class struggle, where a professor of industrial ecology at Norway's Technical-Scientific University of Trondheim and member of the UN Resource Panel comment on the public investigation, 2009:16: «Global Environmental Challenges – Norwegian Policy», conducted by the Ministry of Finance. The hearing freshness is December 18th. It is strong to read the end of that chronicle, which is like this: ‘The Ministry of Finance builds up complex theories based on unrealistic assumptions and logical misconceptions. In order to obtain the policy that nearly all parties have promised, the population should protest against a NOW that goes against what the voters want.’ It is a strong statement from the Academy of Trondheim – that is, from a professor who is also a member of the UN Resource Panel. I think it's a citizen that we should go into these issues more thoroughly, so that we get a much more common sense of reality in the relationship between the use of allowances and national climate action. In this context, I would also like to say that, in the context of climate issues, the Ministry of Finance must be something far more than a department run by cashiers and auditors – to put it a little challenging. There must be a department run by a community management, where a user spends money on long-term business transitions, and not least on the culture of working life, with the old culture: Do your duty – demand your right. I think it's going to be a very crucial relationship in the situation we're now going into, where you're going to have to household with the state's money in a completely different way. It requires a common sense of reality, where the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance has a project that can ensure that a person is brought to an end about the change in policy that needs to be made. It is also clear that the reductions in distance costs and smaller transport that this has to bring lead to quite large investments, and this becomes very demanding. The shift in private business from a largely oil and gas-based economy to a renewable carbon economy, for example: from wood processing, will be a very demanding and important question. Norway is a small country in the world, but we can afford to be a small example. In this respect, I would like to refer to the latest statistics on gross domestic product per person. population — then for the year 2007. There we are now in the situation that Norway is in third place in the world. Only Luxembourg and Bermuda are in front of us, and Norway has a gross domestic product of $82,480 per year in 2007. the population. The United States – which many of us consider to be far advanced in gross domestic product – has a gross domestic product of only about half, i.e. 45,590 dollars per year. the population. So there's a heavenly difference between the United States and gross domestic product. If our democracy cannot reduce carbon dioxide emissions, what nations can take a modest burden to reduce it from oil, gas and coal to renewable energy? But it's very demanding to get it done. In this respect, I would also like to point out that in this transformation of business, we need to ensure that we have some advantage – the advantage of renewable energy. A great deal of it is related to technological solutions, which in the short term require significant investment. The current involvement of the business park in Kongsberg, for example: in relation to geothermal technology, which uses part of oil drilling technology as a basis, is an important challenge, but which requires investments primarily to yield returns later. It is important that the country participates in the co-financing of private business, so that it is economically viable to do so in the first place. As others have pointed out, the issue we are now discussing is the long-term guarantee scheme for power-intensive industries. It is a scheme to apply to enterprises or consortia with a minimum consumption of 10 GWh. Wood, wood products, wood processing, chemical products and metals come into it. It's good that you've got it done. It has a framework of DKK 20 billion, and its purpose is to increase liquidity in the market for power agreements of a duration of at least seven years. This is the system that the Government believes is best when we have to align ourselves with the EEA Agreement. Without the EEA Agreement, we would have had the opportunity to use more targeted measures towards the powerful industry, an industry Norway absolutely needs to develop further – and I would like to emphasise this – with increasingly better environmental technology solutions. It has also emerged in the debate that the fall-backs were the result. I have to say I am proud that we have got a government that is willing to secure a fall-back for privately owned power plants. The conclusion of it was also fundamental, and it was very little criticism from the Right, which is contrary to the fall-back, the time it took. The reason for this is natural: the conclusion of a fall-back was close to 90 p.m. in the population. Finally, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, there are a number of very important social institutions, including: The central government collection centre, which requires almost NOK 1.7 billion a year. It's a well-functioning establishment. It's a good crew, and it's located in Mo in Rana with 340 employees. And that's important -- it's easy access to highly qualified employees. It's not like the Oslo elite chooses to tease, that theoretically good young people choose urban struts. I would like to conclude by saying that, as a model for the Minister of Finance, he can use the good example of the central government collection centre as something to build on to spread public jobs across the country. The management is very pleased with their location and the employees they get when they are looking for new people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2487	I would like to briefly explain the Left’s proposal in the vote – which is mainly related to the 90-items of the State budget. In line with the pledges made by the Left in the election campaign, we propose to strengthen the research fund's reserves by SEK 73 billion in addition to the government's proposals. The fund will then amount to SEK 150 billion, and an increase of SEK 73 billion will – given an interest rate of 3.5 pst. – generate an additional return for research purposes of approximately DKK 2.55 billion in 2011 in addition to the Government’s proposals. For the Left, a solid research fund is the best guarantee of stability and predictability in public research appropriations. Instead of cutting breaks, we need to create a space for strategic efforts on the way into the knowledge and low-carbon society. The preservation of our cultural heritage is an important task. Cultural memories — both intangible and tangible — are the traces of the lives and activities of our ancestors that can still be seen and experienced in today's society. We have an obligation to pass on knowledge of our past. The state is a large owner of cultural memories and has a special responsibility to take care of them. The left therefore proposes to add 200 million to the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund. kr. The main priority of the left in energy policy is to transform Norway into a climate-friendly society, while maintaining a well-functioning and secure energy supply. To address the international climate challenges, rich countries such as Norway are required to take a leading role in showing poor countries that it is possible to combine low emissions with a high level of wealth and well-being. Norway has great opportunities to convert energy use, to use new environmental technologies in energy supply and industry, while contributing to the creation of new businesses and jobs. Unfortunately, the government's work on new renewable energy production has gone too slowly, including in particular: the result that the objective of 3 TWh wind power in 2010 will not be achieved. The Left therefore proposes to increase the capital of the Renewable Energy Base Fund and energy efficiency improvement by DKK 5 billion in addition to the Government’s proposal in a broad commitment to renewable energy, energy conversion and energy saving. The Left also proposes the creation of a new state investment company, Climate Change, which aims to invest in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly conversion of existing businesses. The company is based on the same guidelines as national seed funds under Innovation Norway, i.e. to add up to an investment capital of DKK 1 billion, of which EUR 500 million is contributed by the State. SEK and private investors with 500 million. kr. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2504	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2507	I would just like to make a few comments on the statements made by the representative, Mr Kambe, relating to the Guarantee Institute and the industrial power regime. He started from Kristoffersen's posts earlier, where she was a little surprised at the comment that is in the setting we're dealing with now. The reason why Kristoffersen was a little surprised by that remark was that we simply did not understand everything in it. It says here that the Right does not think that the Government’s ‘matches well with the instruments when giving too short a time limit on the guarantee contracts according to. the wishes of the industry»; We don't understand that, because what we're dealing with now has nothing to do with any time limit on warranty agreements at all. It is such that industry can conclude long-term agreements. It may conclude power agreements of 100 years if it so wishes. The guarantee institute that we are now adding SEK 20 billion is just one element of an industrial power regime. The industrial power regime contains many, at least five–six, elements, where this is an important element. That the Right and also the other opposition parties don't think this is that good, I don't care. But what I am very happy about is that the Norwegian industry and the employees' organisations in industry and energy went out and said that when this guarantee scheme came into place, they called it a happy day, and then they said that the framework was now in place for a good industrial power regime. I can support that much more than the concerns of the Right and the other opposition parties in relation to an industrial power regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2514	It was not meant to start a debate, but it was a point for the Right to answer the criticism that came from Kristoffersen. With regard to what the representative Opheim refers to in relation to the industrial power regime: I think it is a good day for the Stortinget. Tonight, the industrial power regime of the red-greens is likely to be finally buried and transformed into a guarantee scheme. So it's true, as the representative Opheim says, that Elkem Sauda, as he knows well, and Eramet Sauda has some completely different needs than, for example, Hydro Carmine and K6. When they were satisfied with the Houses and satisfied in Sauda, they were dissatisfied with Karmøy. This is where the large investment is to be made, namely in relation to K6, where the modern aluminium industry in Norway is actually going to face major challenges in the future. Then Norsk Hydro said they don't need state guarantees or a state guarantee to get tenure. They have quite a solid economy, and they're so solid themselves that they don't need it. What they asked for was to keep the power they own today, a little longer – at least for 30-40 years, if that's possible. There is some of the essence of the overall opposition in a note – that for Hydro Karmøy this helps little.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2519	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1369]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2535	Nor has any discussion been proposed for this matter. I remind you that the post has to be limited to 30 minutes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2538	I'll put this regulatory speaking time on my heart and see if I can stay inside. The reason why I take the floor in this case is that I want to add some comments in general to the agreements that are now being made with the tax havens. This is one of many, and it's part of an international operation in which the OECD has been the machine. I think it's great that this has been done in an international collaboration. I also find it interesting to notice the joint Nordic grip that is also part of this picture. However, it is important not to leave these issues in place, even though this has now been put in place. Out there in the practical world, it's pretty far ahead of us to deal with the economy that we're looking into here. If the exchange of information in tax matters is to be of some value, one must also have a starting point to know what to ask for, and one must also have a starting point to find out the matters that might be relevant. The states we're talking about are mini-states. The cities that manage billions and billions of dollars are cities of the size of a Norwegian small town, where all the institutions are next to each other across a street, something like the Storgata on Lillehammer. It goes without saying that here's the close networks and the close relationships between so to speak all the parts involved. I also believe that if you look into the things we have had, for example. Anders Jahr, you can see that these have been systems that need to protect each other, and to protect a system as such, simply because these countries don't have much else to live on, and the people who are specifically involved in this industry, to call it that, have a pretty strong common interest in continuing these systems. What I think is that we should continue this work and perhaps also take initiatives through the OECD and the International Monetary Fund to also make demands on the various financial systems of these countries. It may concern supervisory authorities. It may concern registration authorities and registration systems and may concern the role of the prosecution authority. I think we have examples of prosecution authorities in some of these countries taking on tasks that we find unusual for prosecution authorities, for example. to represent unknown interests. There may also be questions about how the judiciary actually works. An example of lack of transparency in these contexts may be that part of the tax havens operate for ideal purposes for their foundations or trusts. It makes these trusts look very dependable to the outside. In reality, this is just a shell. They have a very cumbersome experience of informing at all the ideal purposes which appear to have been favoured. In reality, these cover operations are for a well-placed and rather cleverly designed black economy. It's also a fact that it's not like people who invest their money in these countries, do it too, I would almost say, name and number. Here, there are systems of companies, within what we would call foundations, but that under other legal systems is not at all according to our concepts, which are cunning and long. By «long» I mean chains of companies and institutions, which are precisely designed to make transparency difficult. This applies both to the public interest that might want to see into it, for example: the tax authorities – as in today’s case – and the private actors who want to see into these systems. And precisely those cases can be the starting point for public knowledge of hidden assets. The inheritance situation is the typical example. I have now talked about a number of things that are in themselves the internal affairs of these countries, and where Norwegian jurisdiction has its clear demarcation. It's not that we can just move in and decide in some way, nor is it the international forum that governs these relationships. But I think it's important that we bring some knowledge about how these systems work. I believe it is important that the Ministry of Finance acquires good competence in this, which I have every reason to believe the Ministry of Finance has. And I also think it is important that we in international forums, for example. those who have now started the work that is the reason we have these cases today are following up on at least putting pressure on countries to vent the worst crops, because it is easy to see that there are both administrative and legal procedures in the judiciary that have no intention but to cover up economic conditions that should not be covered in an international society. So this is a call for the Minister of Finance to follow up on this work further and to make sure that as much as possible we are able to mobilize around in an international community to get movement in this. And maybe the Nordic cooperation is a good place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2564	I do not disagree with the representative, Olemic Thommessen. This is probably not the end — perhaps the top of the beginning at the end — in terms of finding ways of tax evasion through tax havens. He is right that it was an OECD initiative, which was quickly followed up when Kristin Halvorsen became Minister of Finance, and on which we now have a number of agreements, and I agree with the call of the current Minister of Finance to follow these matters further up. The reason I asked for the word was that for a west fold it might be said to be a little bit special to be involved in adopting this tax deal with the Cayman Islands. This applies to me, and it might also apply to the President, because the Cayman Islands is part of the greatest treasure hunt of all time, namely the hunt for Sandefjord shipowner Anders Jahr's secret foreign assets. Years were one of the richest in the country. He had a large, secret foreign fortune. The authorities knew it quite early, and they started hunting it already in the 1950s. But years always denied that there was some such wealth. The ownership was, of course, hidden through strawmen and straw companies, and when he threatened to fly out, the Department of Commerce gave itself. But then it happened that years were killed by their own chastity. In 1975, when Sandfjord opened its new town hall, a donation was made from the Panama Continental Trust Company. History suggests that politicians would like to set up a bust of years outside the city hall, but the anonymous donor in Panama was told that they had now thought of a full character! So that years did not own the company, Norwegian authorities could not even pretend to believe in. As a result, the tax authorities began to hunt for foreign property. Bookkeeping was carried out, which revealed a number of documents, sailing if faithful employees had burned a lot in the fire. The secret property, located in the limited company CTC in Panama, was moved to the Continental Foundation on Cayman Islands by one of the faithful employees of the Year, Thorleif Monsen from Tønsberg. Then went 30 years, and Sunday November 2nd last year the Evening Post could report in a brief note that now was the hunt for Anders Jahr wealth over. Over 30 years of hunting, it was taken home about 700 million. kr. Finally, a settlement was made with the Monsen sphere on Cayman Islands to pay $70 million. kr to year of death. Years was a hard-boiled capitalist who not only wiped out the whale, but who also used the methods he could find to avoid money from taxation, sail if it should be said that he liked to donate money for good purposes sail. But the tax authorities were almost helpless and spent 30 years hunting for a fortune that probably amounted to several billion dollars. To avoid this is the political content of the tax agreement with Cayman Islands. It is a long way from the Ministry of Trade looking through the fingertips that years passed away values abroad and into today's tax agreement, which is a significant contribution to the disclosure of hidden funds and tax evasions. It shall no longer be possible to put away money — money created by the work of many hands — and hide it in tax havens to avoid contributing to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2583	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2599	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2615	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2624	With this I present the position of the nutrition committee regarding St.meld. 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture as part of the solution. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in its work on the communication. The Committee organised an open hearing on 12 November, in which positive feedback and comments were given mainly on the notification. However, opinions that are critical to the message’s focus on wood have also been provided as a climate-friendly design and building material, objections that must not be ignored. But there is no doubt that the feedback is a tribute to the government that has prepared the message. However, in many areas more knowledge is needed. We have taken the goal of Norway as a leading country in research and innovation for climate-friendly agriculture. So to the content. Agriculture is clearly part of the problem. Agricultural production generates environmental emissions, produces CO2, but fortunately agriculture is also part of the solution. The forest binds more than half of the man-made greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Photosynthesis uses the energy from sunlight to convert carbon dioxide and water into glucose and oxygen. Norwegian forests have a formidable capacity in this process – more process in fresh, growing forests than in old, outgrown forests. The Committee points out that increased crop rotation, more forest culture and plant processing will significantly increase the carbon capture of the forest. However, measures to address species diversity and other environmental concerns need to be balanced. The majority of the Committee emphasises the need to strengthen forest policy instruments if the role of forests in climate change is to be exploited even better than today. In a note, the majority refers to the link between climate challenges and the need for increased food production and asks the Government to work to ensure food security becomes an integral part of the climate negotiations ahead. It is also gratifying that forests are on the agenda during these debates. The Government fraction further refers to the need to strengthen monitoring and preparedness for plant and animal diseases and points out that good regulation, effective supervision and up-to-date knowledge are essential for meeting the challenges climate change can pose for plant and animal health. This stands in stark contrast to the relaxed attitude of the Advance Party that every farmer is free to manage the earth according to his own head. Government parties are prepared to pursue offensive environmental policies requiring industry. There is a recognition in the notification that agriculture is one of the sectors most affected by climate change and which itself generates greenhouse gas emissions. Then agriculture is the only sector where it has developed its own climate communication, a message that provides many answers to how these major challenges can be properly addressed. It is a pleasure for me to present this setting to a big message focusing on how agriculture can contribute to climate policy in order to meet its part of the climate agreement and reduce its own climate emissions. The Progress Party and the Right have their own proposals, but this is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2651	In this case, we have addressed many issues relating to the emission challenges of agriculture. Some of the measures discussed make it reasonable to go further, regardless of CO2 savings, because it is about better resource use and better profitability in the agricultural industry. A commitment to bioenergy makes sense in an energy policy light. Such things need to be put into practice almost independently of climate policy. However, other measures have legitimacy primarily as measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions. These measures should be considered in a context of greater rationality than this debate. In these days, a work called Climate Action is being carried out, where professionals in the SSB, SFT and other public bodies assess potential climate action in all parts of society. The aim is to identify the potential for cuts, costs and realism, so that authorities can prioritise actions and research projects in the most rational way possible. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the work in the Climate Action Programme is much longer and should have been carried out before the Climate Action Communication was presented in 2007. Nevertheless, action in agriculture must be seen in the context of the work on Climate Change, so as to avoid imposing costly and symbolic measures in agriculture rather than using resources for more social measures elsewhere. I suppose the Government agrees with this view, all the time when the Government itself often refers to the work on Climate Change. Forests bind over half of the man-made greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and an active forest policy over many decades of planting and caring for forests means that they currently absorb twice as much CO2 as 100 years ago. Increased harvesting, more forest culture and plant processing will significantly increase the carbon capture of forests. The government’s proposal in the 2010 government budget to tax environmentally friendly biodiesel would put investments in 2nd generation Norwegian forestry biodiesel at risk, as the increase in fees could result in the cessation of biodiesel use in Norway as soon as the inclusion requirement has been met. The Progress Party would stress that such developments could reduce the potential for using forest resources to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as this Communication has a strong focus on. The Communication emphasises the fact that forests in Norway have a central place in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and that forestry industry and forest owners have done a good job for many years. The Progress Party agrees that it is therefore important to facilitate sustainable, active forestry so that good development can continue. One part of this is the increased use of wood as construction material. In this context, the Progress Party would stress that Norwegian industry and Norwegian companies are making considerable efforts for more climate-friendly construction solutions within more than three types of materials both in Norway and on the world market. We would stress that it is therefore important that the positive focus on forests and the use of wood in the environmental context does not contribute to distortions of competition in relation to the use of building materials and the development of technologies in different types of materials. The nuanced manufacturing of the various construction materials is important, with the emphasis on elements such as the length of the life cycle of construction materials and their contribution to the reduction of total energy use. It is also important to point out that a strong focus on the use of wood materials in construction should not lead, for example, to discrimination in the use of research and innovation on the different building materials. The Progress Party will stress that the municipalities have, and must continue to have, responsibility for their own land management. There are already a number of environmental requirements that municipalities need to take into account in their land management, and regional and central authorities already have a significant influence on local government. This makes us skeptical about further tightening this law, nor can we see that further weakening local decision-making will be a crucial contribution to addressing the climate challenges in agriculture. The Progress Party believes that greater local self-determination should be provided in terms of planning and area issues. It is important to facilitate the establishment and further development of agricultural co-operation. Several restrictions are in place that affect cooperatives and their ability to produce efficiently. It is necessary to remove the restrictions on the number of participants, the distance limit and the maximum quota for dairy co-operatives. It is very important to facilitate efficient production, but we are somewhat surprised that the government only now sees the importance of enabling food producers to facilitate efficient production. A key prerequisite for this is that food producers are given greater freedom to control their own production. It needs to be done by removing and simplifying current bureaucratic food legislation, which will give food producers greater opportunities. In the case of forest planting, the Progress Party considers that it is important to facilitate forest production in Norway and that it can best be done through increased freedom of nutrition for forestry and lower taxes and taxes. Then I would like to inform you that the Progress Party wants to support proposal No. Four, from the left. Finally, I address the proposals we are promoting with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2688	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2691	The Communication describes the role of agriculture, and not least forestry, in relation to challenges and opportunities to contribute to climate action. The Communication also mentions strategies for international work and national climate objectives as well as climate action in agriculture and forestry in Norway. There are no significant new strategies in the notification that are not previously known through the Stortinges treatment of St.meld. No 34 for 2006-2007, Norwegian climate policy, and the January 2008 climate agreement. However, the notification details a number of objectives in international work, the climate accounts of agriculture, land policy, forestry, agriculture, food and consumer policies. Few of the points of view are disputed. On the right, however, a more nuanced view of land policy and soil protection, where the Government is alerting tightening. The right is also more balanced than the Government and the strongly unilateral use of wood as construction material. In addition, we will promote criticism of the charging of environmentally friendly biodiesel in this year’s budget – a proposal that is in stark contrast to the key focus of the Communication on forestry contributing to emission reduction. The right is strongly skeptical of the notification of a more restrictive soil protection policy and the increased emphasis on regional plan clarifications and strategies in the press areas. Municipalities are currently subject to a strict environmental regime which is taken into account in municipal land management. The right is sceptical about the theory that a further weakening of local decision-making rights will make constructive contributions to addressing agricultural climate challenges. That is why we are promoting proposals to facilitate greater local autonomy in planning and land issues. We see that wood and wood material have beneficial properties for storing CO2 and that climate policies can lead to changed material choices. However, the right will point out that climate accounting needs to be seen in a long time horizon and that it is important to take into account that such mechanisms could lead to distortions of competition between materials. Ignoring such considerations may slow down the pace of the development of climate-friendly building materials and methods. With the budget debate of the harvest fresh in memory, parts of the notification are given a cross of self-contradictment. The rapid and unexpected shift in tax policy on eco-friendly biodiesel gives a strange signal set against the prose of government parties in this Communication. The right considers that this could reduce the possibility of using forest resources to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in stark contrast to what this Communication focuses on. Finally, I will focus on the last of our proposals. In order to stimulate increased efforts towards the objective of effective forest and agricultural emission reductions, we are asking for an investigation into a forest-oriented quota trading scheme for CO2 allowances. Why can Norway not be in the forefront of an international development process which, in our opinion, will promote such a regime once in the future? Our prediction must be seen in the light of the Government's international commitment to saving the rainforest. The study should consider how such a system can facilitate and stimulate increased development, research and production of renewable energy from Norwegian forests and wood. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Right supports proposal No. Three, four and five from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2716	As I said in the budget debate, there is a close link between industrial policy and climate policy. This applies not least to agricultural policy. It is therefore both natural and positive that agriculture is the first industry to produce its own climate notification. Forestry is a central point of the message. The focus here is that the forest binds CO2 and that it is important to run sustainable forestry in order to exploit this potential. A Joint Committee clarifies that forest management must be carried out in a manner consistent with the objectives of preserving natural diversity. There are different views of carbon capture in forests and how it is to be managed in climate accounting. But independently of this, it is important to manage the forest so that it provides the best possible CO2 capture without conflicting with other considerations, such as natural disasters, outdoors and travel. Bioenergy is an important element of climate policy. Biofuels and biogas replacing oil and electricity for heating are an important area. Here we're talking about known technology. There are questions about finding the right tools to increase the use of biofuels. Local heating centres may be such a measure. 2nd generation bioenergy, such as biodiesel and ethanol, which does not affect the food situation, is also an important field of activity. Research, development and piloting are needed here. Agriculture has some climate challenges, such as: methane, liquefaction and waste. The message indicates that it is important to collect methane and use waste for bioenergy. It is also important to avoid over-fertilisation. Fertilizers with nitrogen fertilisers were also discussed in the hearing that was arranged in connection with the message. It is important to develop methods to reduce the problem of overfertilisation of nitrogen. The message indicates that organic farming is a positive measure in climate action, and it must facilitate the further development of such forms of farming. Carbon binding in soil is discussed in the message. In this and several other areas related to the climate impact of agriculture, there is a need for more research, and we need to contact strong international research environments to make sure that we put ourselves on the same premises as others who work at the same time. The message emphasises the link between the climate crisis and the global food crisis. In this context, there is reason to focus on the good use of grazing and on the cultivation of feed for domestic animals in order to reduce the need for imports of feed. Imports of cereals for meat production are of little benefit both for the climate and for the global food situation. The message discusses the climate labelling of food without proposing such measures at the current time. Here it will be relevant to follow developments forward. Agriculture is an industry that is, and will be, strongly affected by climate change. It is important to acquire knowledge of climate change and the impact they will have on agriculture. It is also important to put in place the necessary remedial measures in good time. The climate message we've been given here, which is the first industry-oriented climate communication, is a good tool for further work, but we don't have to deal with the implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2751	Agriculture has more roles than just being a food producer. Agriculture is, among many good purposes, an important energy source, the producer of building materials, raw materials for textile production, travel experiences and not least an important climate factor. Large amounts of carbon have been stored in agricultural soils. The role of agriculture in climate change is significantly related to whether the agricultural activity contributes to a net storage or a net loss of agricultural carbon. Agriculture also emits greenhouse gases when livestock convert carbon into methane and from nitrogen use that gives the greenhouse gas light. In addition, the use of fossil energy by agriculture comes. It is central that a new climate agreement in Copenhagen provides room for wide-ranging climate work where food security is discussed together with other important issues. The government will work to ensure food security is an integral part of the follow-up to the Copenhagen climate summit. The notification also shows that there is a significant potential for agricultural emission reductions. This is a responsibility that the industry wants to take. Then we have to facilitate this by ensuring the industry's sound framework. By 2050 there will probably be 9 billion people on Earth. Food production is likely to have to double by 2050 in order to meet the world’s food needs. This is a major challenge, which is reinforced by climate change. Climate change has contributed to increasing instability in the global food market in recent years. In addition, international financial turmoil contributes to increasing uncertainty in the food market. Today, only 3 pst. of the area of Norway used for food production. This is such a small part of the area in Norway that we have to be able to take care of it for our descendants. Cultivated and arable land is a basic but limited resource to ensure food production and is an important part of the cultural landscape. Soil conservation is also very important in the context of climate change due to the high carbon content of the soil. These are important foundations for a more restrictive soil protection policy, as underlined by the Government and the Stortinget. Soil protection needs to be at the heart of both municipal planning and major transport projects. When 1 billion people starve every day, we are obliged to be as self-sufficient in food as possible. The climate benefit is due both to the binding of CO2 in forests and to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions when wood is used instead of alternative products. Active forestry involving increased production, harvesting and use of wood yields the greatest climate benefit. The forest in Norway contributes to a significant reduction in the net emissions of CO2. This is because: growing forest takes up CO2 through photosynthesis forest and wood products binds CO2 for a long time using wood reduces the need for fossil fuel use Annually, the forest in Norway binds nearly 30 million. tonnes of CO2. In addition, today’s extraction and use of wood from Norwegian forests reduces CO2 emissions by approximately 10 million. tonnes. Current forest management in Norway thus reduces the annual net emissions of CO2 by about 40 million. tonnes. This corresponds to more than 70 pst. of the total greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. To strengthen the role of the forest in terms of carbon absorption and increased use of bioenergy, further strengthening of its use is needed in relation to today. Based on the potential of forestry, a target to double the maximum can be an important step on the road. Norwegian agriculture must be a forward-looking industry, which must be made robust in the face of the global food and climate crisis. Then the answer is not to reduce Norwegian agricultural output and then have to import even more of our consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2810	Agriculture is one of the sectors that will be most affected by climate change, while agriculture, through its production, generates greenhouse gas emissions that need to be limited. The communication we are discussing today provides more answers to how these challenges can be properly addressed, without jeopardising the possibilities of increasing Norwegian food production. It is important that agriculture adapts to new climate conditions in order to ensure the widest possible global production of food and agricultural products. Forests bind, as we have heard earlier today, over half of the man-made greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and active forest policy over many decades, with the planting and care of the forest, makes it take up today twice as much CO2 as 100 years ago. Increased harvesting, more forest culture and plant processing will significantly increase the carbon capture of the forest. However, this must be done in a manner compatible with the objectives of preserving natural diversity. It is also necessary to take into account that dark forested areas in northern latitudes attract more sunlight and create higher temperatures than bright snow-covered areas, thus helping to increase temperature rises in climate change. It is also important to stress that the focus on forest and the use of wood in the environmental context does not contribute to distortions of competition in relation to the use of building materials and the development of technologies in different types of materials. The nuanced manufacture of the various construction materials is important, with emphasis also being placed on elements such as the length of the life cycle of construction materials and their contribution to the reduction of total energy use. The government proposed to the State budget for 2010 to charge biodiesel. This proposal may jeopardise investments in 2nd generation Norwegian forestry biodiesel because the increase in fees may lead to a halt in the use of biodiesel in Norway as soon as the inclusion requirement has been met. Such developments may reduce the potential for making use of forest resources to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as the focus of this Communication is on. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to facilitate the establishment and further development of joint farms in agriculture. Several restrictions are in place that affect cooperatives and their ability to produce efficiently. The Christian People’s Party therefore considers that restrictions on the number of participants, distance limit and maximum quota for dairy co-operatives need to be lifted. In line with the climate agreement, the left will promote three proposals on waste and agriculture. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2831	First of all, I think it is positive that the government is coming to the Stortinget with issues of climate policy in more areas than we have been used to. In the Communication, the Government makes good progress on the effects of climate change and opportunities to reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions in the agriculture and waste sectors. Reference is made to the need for reductions and reference is made to the United Nations recommendations on climate change settlement, but it is not concluded. This is pointed out, for example. on the possibilities of reducing emissions from the production of livestock, manure and manure, but the measures are not taken. I had hoped that when you got to Stortinget right for the drive up to the Copenhagen climate summit, there was a wide range of effective measures in the sleeve. It is also interesting to read how the Government in the Communication argues for biodiesel bet, a measure the same government has strongly argued against, and ended up charging. Attention is drawn to the potential for ethanol and biogas production. These are areas where the Government has created considerable uncertainty through its new charging policy. The Left has called for a strengthening of the follow-up to the objectives of the climate agreement. Norway shall contribute to a reduction of 30 pst. by 2020, and two thirds of this reduction shall be taken nationally. If we're going to achieve this, we don't have time to lose. The left wants to implement the charging policy to reduce emissions from the agricultural and waste sectors and wants to set a target for reductions of 1.5 million tonnes by 2020. As we proposed in our alternative state budget for 2010, the Left also wants to remove the final treatment charge on the incineration of waste, which will be important for district heating investment. Furthermore, we want an agricultural energy fund for agricultural production, which could be an important contribution to the realisation of many projects in the field of methane gas collection and increased efforts in renewable energy. I take this up with me the proposals that the Left makes when dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2844	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2848	Global leaders are now gathered in Copenhagen to try to agree on new binding emission reductions. We do not yet know whether there will be a political consensus in Copenhagen, nor what such agreement will specifically include. While we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the world's population is increasing. We need to produce more food — much more food — both globally and in Norway. More effective climate action and enhanced food security — at the same time — it is extremely demanding. In Copenhagen, the Norwegian negotiating delegation is now working to provide references to food security in the consensus that may be reached. I think it is absolutely necessary that food security be an integral part of the further climate negotiations that we will see ahead of us in the future. As I see it, the presentation of St.meld was. No 39 for 2008-2009 in May this year a milestone for further work on agriculture and climate. Through this message we have a solid summary of knowledge. It contains a thorough discussion of possible measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture, to increase the positive climate contribution from both agriculture and forestry and to adapt agriculture to a changing climate. As the Committee has noted, agriculture is the only sector that has carried out such a review of climate responsibility and possible climate action. I also record that there seems to be a broad gap in the knowledge base of the notification and the proposals for action. I am pleased that, in its position, the Committee endorses the main features of the Communication and that, with the support of the Stortinge, we can now continue to work on climate action in agriculture. I am glad that the majority have the understanding that we have little cultivated land, and that we need to reduce the re-disposal of cultivated land for other purposes. This is a prerequisite for maintaining or increasing food production while at the same time having sustainable agriculture. I can assure you that I will do what is possible to get the necessary emission reductions in agriculture. The objective is to reduce emissions by at least 1,1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. I note that a majority of the Committee believes that today's use of energy does not seem to trigger the necessary realization of increased biogas production. We now need to put in place a comprehensive tool package for development in this area. In this context, I note that a majority of committee members highlight the challenges of food waste and food waste. Quality good and safe food should not end up as waste. Where food waste occurs, however, we need to make it part of an integrated biogas production process. The Committee’s position refers to several aspects of the importance of forests in the context of climate change. I assume that I have the support of Stortinget regarding the further development of the positive climate contributions from the forest. Good care, cutting, planting and active forestry provide good and proper climate impact. In my view, the estimates in the Communication on the climate effects of forest measures are cautious. There is good reason to believe that a better data base will allow us to adjust the potential climate impacts of the forest. Many of the forest measures may also have a higher cost-effectiveness than the one envisaged in the Communication. I assume that SFT’s new climate change 2020 action analysis will shed more light on this. I also note that a majority in the Committee asks the Government to consider strengthening the use of instruments for increasing carbon uptake in forests and increasing the supply of energy to bioenergy, and that the Storting in this context sees favourably the further development of the scheme for support for the production of forest chips. One of the key climate measures we can take to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions is to exploit the significant potential of replacing fossil fuels with bioenergy. The framework conditions in this area must be good and predictable. I will follow up on this in the further work. The majority of the Committee sees it as important that agriculture adapt to new climate conditions. I believe that an important part of this adaptation work is to streamline and strengthen plant processing, and I will focus on this in the future. I am otherwise pleased that a majority in the Committee have noticed that the Government will strengthen the monitoring and preparedness for plant pests, animal diseases and zoonoses. I will follow this up to ensure that we have a good apparatus to meet the challenges of climate change. Otherwise, it is gratifying that the majority share the Government's ambition that Norway should be among the leading countries in knowledge production for climate-adapted agriculture. As Stortinget is familiar with through the budgetary procedure, I have arranged for a significant stepping up of research related to agriculture and climate. In the course of two years, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has supported renewable energy research and carbon management increased by 50 million. kr. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough examination of the notification. I look forward to further working on issues related to agriculture and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2886	In the big news, the Council of State says that they will increase the efficiency of milk production, beef production and sheep farming. It is very important to facilitate efficient production. A key prerequisite for this is that food producers are given greater freedom to control their own production. It has to be done by removing or simplifying current bureaucratic food legislation, which will give food producers greater opportunities. The Progress Party is pleased that the Council of State will now facilitate efficient production. My question to the Council of State will be: Why do the Council of State now focus on agricultural efficiency? Could it be because of the great disintegration among Norwegian farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2895	There is a close link between the measures proposed in the Communication and the impact on climate emissions. The point is – unless the representative has brought it along – to increase the efficiency of production and thus reduce the relative share of climate emissions in different productions. Of course, there is work to be done independently of structural measures, regardless of the discussion of large and small, regardless of ideological differences between the various parties. I am very concerned that we should improve the overall efficiency of Norwegian agriculture. In this way, we are helping to reduce climate change emissions relative to production, and that is an important objective of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2902	Born and raised on the Finnmark coast, I will not claim to be an expert on forestry. I think I feel more like a fish on land. But I'm now curious. Today I read today's business, where there is an article about a Stig Myrseth. He's got a hotel in Norefjell. He has invested in biofuels and district heating to get this hotel the eco-label. Then it turns out that when he's finished and really wants the nice gold mark on the door, someone comes in with some kind of eco-label that shows that he can only get Eco-label D at his hotel. If he had inserted the heat pump – air to air – he would have got B, and if he had installed the panel ovens, he would have got C. In the light of the debate we have had in the Chamber today, this seems a little strange. My question to the Council of State is: what can be the result of these crackdowns in the field of eco-labelling and the debate on biofuels, and does this take a little of the air out of the above-mentioned bio-fuel investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2909	I know little about the matter that is referred to in today's Business today. But it has been told to me that it is a hearing case regarding the marking of the house. Such a mark shall accompany the sale of houses. I just have to admit that I am asking myself some of the same questions that the representative Bakke Jensen does in this connection. It's an investigation done by professionals, and it's quite incomprehensible to me to see that, for example. use of wood shall not give rise to positive climate effects. It shall be demonstrated in a building. I look forward to the further work on this matter and expect the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which is responsible for following it up, to follow up properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2918	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2923	The United Nations Panel on Climate Change states that agricultural action will play an important role in climate change by increasing carbon capture, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and delivering biomass to energy use. Active forestry and good management of soil resources are among the most efficient ways of absorbing CO2 and storing carbon. In addition to the climate crisis, the world is facing a food crisis. For us to have enough food in 40 years, global food production needs to be doubled. We then need to strengthen Norwegian food production and agriculture in international development policy. Furthermore, matrimonial security can no longer be a forgotten chapter of climate policy. The measure that has the greatest potential in agriculture is to exploit manure for energy production by establishing biogas plants. This gives a double positive climate effect – we reduce manure emissions, while producing climate-friendly energy. By making better use of nitrogen in manure, we reduce the need for fertilizers. This is an area in which agriculture can cooperate with the waste sector, which can accept household waste in biogas production. Every year we throw a million tons of usable food to the North. At the same time, there's almost a billion people who lie down each day. The earth is a large carbon bank. About 200 million tons of carbon are stored in the soil in Norway. This is 13 times the total Norwegian climate change emissions. The most important thing is to manage the earth so that this carbon does not escape. Soil protection policy is a key word here, and also reducing the cultivation of ants. This government has lifted the forest into climate policy in a completely different way than we have seen before. In the main message, the ability of the forest is described as carbon vacuum cleaners in the growth phase and CO2 bank. The Norwegian forests bind over half of the greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Other important measures include more use of wood in constructions and constructions instead of more energy-intensive materials — and the use of tops and branches and other waste for energy purposes, thus replacing more fossil fuels. Although it is in primary production that agriculture has its largest emissions, it is not certain that it is here that it is easiest and best to cut emissions. Animal and soil emissions are inevitable in many contexts. This is not the case with emissions from the car that carry the raw materials from the processing companies and the oil boiler. We also need to get out of the drug industry, because we need to see the whole chain from earth to table. Agriculture lives with and from the climate and is among the sectors most vulnerable to climate change and temperature rises. Agriculture can deliver several of the climate solutions world needs, and then we need a living agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2953	Today I'm going to talk about what's called the big food caste. All food production produces greenhouse gas emissions. The message we are discussing today reads that it is a goal that these emissions should be as low as possible within the framework of reasonable and sustainable use of earth's resources to provide the earth's population with food. Is it not then a paradox that on a global basis half of the food that is produced is estimated to be food waste and one third of the food that people buy is wasted? And not least, if consumers halve the amount of food they throw, it could satisfy the sixth of the Earth's population that is now starving. Food waste is the type of waste that has grown fastest in Norway in the last five years. In addition, throwing useful food is an ethical problem in a global situation, where food shortages are on the agenda and malnutrition is increasing. In addition, the climate problems with food waste related to the unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions occurring through production, processing, transport and placing on the market will arise if useful food is not exploited as a human food. British researchers have calculated that if waste of useful food ends, it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 20 pst. of car traffic. There's something to think about. Why are we throwing food? Do we misunderstand the date marking? Have we forgotten to smell up to what's moldy and yummy? Smelling is also important knowledge that might go into the memory book of our modern affluent society. Maybe the food is too cheap? But for many years we have heard that food is too expensive. When we hear how much food is going to be in the garbage, we might understand that the food is too cheap. Finally, my call is for everyone to do everything in their power to reduce food waste from the entire food chain, that is, from primary producers to food industries, trade and consumers. The aim must be that all food produced should initially be consumed and not end up as food waste – not least in view of the climate challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2968	This big message is important. It addresses local challenges with a local responsibility for a global challenge. The challenges are many, and they will affect everyone in the future. The more we are done to prevent greenhouse gas emissions, the better we will do in the future. But the situation is also such that with the climate change we face, with the challenges of drought, floods and natural disasters, our challenges in agriculture and food production will increase. Unfortunately, the food crisis and the climate crisis go hand in hand. When we look at it in this perspective, where the world's population is likely to grow to about 8 billion people by 2030 and to about 9 billion people by 2050, it shows that we need a huge increase in agricultural production. So this is about climate action to combat poverty and food shortages. Climate change is, as we see it, a direct threat to food security in some parts of the world, because agricultural productivity will fall in some areas of the world. Norway must help to find solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time working to find new sustainable solutions for increasing agricultural production. But Norway cannot do this job alone. There must be a systematic exchange, transfer of knowledge and binding agreements between countries and between parts of the world. Our ambition is to maintain and increase food production in Norway. The government believes it is possible to increase the production of agricultural food in Norway in order to follow developments in the population. In this context, the country also plays an important role in contributing to the maintenance of agriculture, as we see it. That is why I am surprised that yesterday, during the discussion of the food budget, the agricultural policy of the Progress Party was frontlined by Mr. Tåldal, who is being asked to stay far away from the farmers so that they can operate their own AS. Today, the same representative goes to the pulpit and says that we need a more effective solution to food production, and that we find the solution by removing today's bureaucracy. I always thought it was the farmer who produced food, not the bureaucrat. The party, which claims that it exists for most people, doesn't seem to have come to realize that the most farmers don't want to cut off the state grant schemes. The farmers will have an agricultural agreement, and they will have negotiations to help raise incomes, not cut them. Realism in the policy of the Progress Party is a furor of agriculture and district Norway, and the opposite of the policy needed to meet the major and serious challenges we are now facing, which the Government is reaching out to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2977	I would like to say to the representative, "When there are more bureaucrats than there are farmers soon, the bureaucrats are going to produce the food." It is not every day that I can agree with the Minister of Agriculture – and then I had to take the floor and say so. Then I also want a little bit of paint in the beggar. I think the message places – as the representative Heggø has also said – the forest in a climate perspective that is extremely important. It's the well-run and the actively driven forest that does a good job in climate-related terms. Here I very much agree with the Minister of Agriculture. This is a significant step forward in relation to the debate we have had up to – I would say – quite recently. It's the active driven forest that does a good job. So we've got a new moment in this with protection, because it's clear that a protected forest is a climax, and it's a zero-sum game compared to climate change. That's something you might be able to bring with you. So a little bit ground. Tile and waste of forest products are largely mentioned in the context of bioenergy and district heating systems, and this is important enough. We see the challenges facing Norway as well — and in a row reference is made to DN’s article today — but it is not mentioned as a potential export article. Tile from Norwegian forestry — and there is a significant potential in Norwegian forestry for increased production — can replace a lot of coal down in Europe. Norway is facing one major challenge in developing renewable energy in Norway, and it is that we have far too low energy prices. We like to boast in many ways, and we like to think of it as a huge advantage, but in terms of developing bioenergy and district heating, and therefore also a market for tiles, that's something we're going to have to struggle with. In fact, exporting tiles to Europe could give a good impetus to much of District Norway and forestry as an industry. Then you need to focus on the whole chain to get it done – you need berths, and you need transport capacity and that kind of thing. I miss that one has a little focus in the message, and I just want to give it as input to the Minister of Agriculture, that one can also focus on that kind of market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2989	It is a great pleasure to experience that, for once, the representative Gundersen gives praise to the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. That's not what we're used to, so I was a little excited when he went to the pulpit today. But I feel that there is a great deal of political consensus about the moments Gundersen mentions, about the importance of the forest, and not least that we're going to have an active care and an active forestry that involves cutting, planting and staggering the forest. I know that there are more people in this room who have a lot more experience from active forestry – including the president – than myself, so I think it has a lot of excitement. I would also like to stress that today’s debate – or perhaps a lack of debate – tells me that there is a broad and broad consensus on the proposals put forward in the communication and that there is a strong support for the analyses on which it is based. I am very pleased, too, because this means that there is great support for agriculture, which has challenges on the climate side, also being part of the solution – through traditional agricultural production, but also through the resources it has on the forest side. I would also like to stress that the message is internationally requested. There are no other national Parliaments — I am aware — who have seen this kind of message or paper — in the past. We use it actively when we have contact with other countries. Then came a couple of articles in the debate on the competitiveness of the tree in relation to other building materials. I just want to stress that the conclusions expressed in the communication on the tree’s benefits in relation to other building materials are clear from research results, both in Norway and internationally. I refer to the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and I refer to the EU's own positions in relation to climate negotiations. There is no doubt that the tree has benefits in relation to climate efficiency, and it is a clear ambition that we need to increase the use of wood in construction materials. And here it's not about the use of wood replacing other construction materials – here it's about the fact that we're going to use the tree more actively, in order to increase the climate effect in construction that consists of both steel and concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e2998	Only a small comment to the discussion about the current forestry activity. There is quite a consensus that active, sustainable forestry is important, but there were some comments here that could almost be interpreted in the sense that all the protection of forests is a evil. I just want to point out that the majority have clearly said that the active forestry must take proper care of bio-diversity and biodiversity, and that in that image it is still protecting forests in the area where it is natural, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3003	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3019	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3028	Finally, Stortinget is able to deal with the paper on Avinor’s activities in 2008–2010. This is a matter that remained over from the spring session – it came too late from the Government. It's about remembering what Avinor's doing. Avinor is responsible for planning, developing and operating an overall airport network in Norway. Avinor operates 46 airports. Activities include control towers, control centres and air navigation technical infrastructure. Avinor is responsible for maintaining a proper level of safety at all aerodromes. The company is self-financing, it is important to underline. Avinor was established as a limited liability company, wholly owned by the State on 1 January 2003, and its ownership is managed by the Ministry of Transport. The Transport Committee has had two hearings on the matter – one with the Minister of Transport. Following the governance structure established at the time of the establishment of Avinor, the Ministry of Transport shall provide a comprehensive report on the activities of Avinor every two years. This is now changing: The Ministry of Transport says in the Communication that the Government is now planning to submit a four-yearly report of ownership, i.e. once per day. the ageing period, however, more often if necessary. The Committee agrees on some important points. There are also proposals from the minority. I will deal with the proposals that the Progress Party has itself, and those that we have with others. Aviation is important for Norway. People in Norway fly a lot domestically. There are good reasons for that. Norway is a long-distance country with scattered settlements. Norway has a poor road and rail network and is difficult to compare with other densely populated countries and with millions of cities in Europe. Foreign traffic by aircraft — from and to Norway — is also high. Both domestic air transport and air transport abroad have experienced steady growth for many years, which, however, stopped when the financial crisis came. Like many others, air traffic is now picking up again, and there are good reasons to believe that the need for air transport – the use of public transport by air – will continue to increase. There is also reason to stress that Avinor, which manages most of the airport network in Norway, is self-financed. Through fees from airlines, paid by passengers, and through commercial revenues – renting out the area and profits of the restaurant, tax-free and retail activities – Avinor collects its necessary revenues to finance the operation of aerodromes, investment in renewal and expansion, and the new and strengthened safety and security regulatory measures. So-called security costs amount to well over 900 million in 2009. kr. In 2008, there was a positive operating surplus at four airports: Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. Except for less plus by Kristiansand and Ålesund, all the other airports went in minus, which were covered with plus from the four largest. All collective travelers by plane over Gardermoen, Flesland, Sola and Værnes pay to operate the other airports in Norway. When the parties that defend cross-subsidies of Norwegian airports at the same time are climate comrades and would prefer to reduce public transport by aircraft – especially in South Norway – it sounds hollow. I would like to point out in particular that the Committee is concerned about the situation of lack of air traffic controllers, which seems to be able to continue until 2014. The Committee has noted that: ‘The Ministry of Transport notes that there will still be a shortage of air traffic controllers for several years to come. The Ministry is concerned about the consequences for users, especially when it comes to the cost of using services. The Committee shares this concern and assumes that the company extends its package of measures to meet the needs of air traffic controllers, to ensure safety and to avoid delays for travellers. The Committee has noted that it is by letter from the Ministry of Transport, in response to questions from the Committee, that information is provided that, with regard to the delay, it takes longer to obtain enough air traffic controllers than has previously been notified. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of speeding up the full coverage of required air traffic controllers and the need to be closely monitored by the Ministry. And I'm adding – it's also important that the Storting is kept informed about this work. The Committee also points out that both the Government and Avinor should work on measures to improve safety and reduce costs and delays in time. – Now my time lag occurs, so I ask for an article later to explain more about the Progress Party’s view on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3061	The submitted Storing Message About the Avinor AS enterprise gives a good picture of the development of the company since the previous notification. The majority of Avinor’s strategies have been fixed since the company was launched in 2003, and the message is not designed to change them either. Avinor's societal mission is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of Airports and air navigation services. Avinor is responsible for 46 State Airports. It is a major and comprehensive task for Avinor, and the exercise of this important social mission must be seen in the light of the overriding objective of transport policy, as formulated in the national transport plan, simply to provide an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport system with good access for all. In addition, the transport system shall meet society’s transport needs and promote regional development. The general rule must be that the operation and development of aerodromes must be managed within the Avinor system. The solidarity scheme, where the excess from the business-economically profitable airports is helping to keep up the non-profitable airports, is very important for regional development, and many places in our country are the airports and the grid deciding for construction and employment. Avinor has major investment and financing challenges. Safety requirements for the design of aerodromes are strengthened by the following major investments. In addition, the international financial crisis has reinforced the challenges. Reduced air traffic has resulted in reduced revenues over the same period. From this point of view, there has been a complete right and need for a package of Avinor’s own measures with exceptional contributions to security investments, not the payment of exchange and repayment exemptions for loans. It is also set up a new exchange model that will provide lower exchange rates and will be more reliable for the company. The Ministry of Transport, as its owner and board of directors, has a continuous follow-up to fees, operating levels and investment plans in Avinor. The Ministry must guarantee the company the necessary future revenues as a tax administration. This will be decisive for Avinor's ability to carry out all types of investments, not only those security related to which this is shown. In the event of changes in the tariff regime, the districts must be particularly vulnerable. There is every reason to have a strong searchlight on the capacity of air navigation services. It seems that there will still be a shortage of air traffic controllers for several years. Measures must be taken here to ensure that the consequences for users are not excessive and that costs are not excessive. Avinor has clear objectives when it comes to the environment and climate. Not least, this is evident in the ambitions of the company when it comes to increasing the collective share of housing permits, where one of the Gardermoen’s objectives is to increase from today’s 60 pst. to 70 pst. For Flesland and Sola, the goal is 30 pst. This is an important objective of a comprehensive environmental and climate context, but it will also increase visibility and reduce investment pressure on parking and residential roads. For this reason, it is also important that Avinor establish concrete action plans and progress in order to achieve these objectives, and preferably at the next stage to set even more bold targets within the field. It is also important that aviation infrastructure is designed and organised in such a way as to ensure the best possible mobility in line with the vision of a universally designed society. Gang bridges must be the preferred boarding solution for all passengers, where possible. The Transport and Communications Committee, through its message and its hearings, has gained broad and transparent access to a field that is very important for linking the country and our people together. Avinor has challenges that are exciting to follow in the future. I have good faith that Avinor will do his social mission, with good support from the Government and from us here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3078	Avinor is a married child of the last bourgeois government, and we in the Right are therefore very interested in following developments in the company. The overall strategy for the company has been in place since its establishment in 2003, and the communication on the activities presented every two years intends to inform the Stortning on the development of the company. It is a well-known case that Avinor has been through turbulent times when it comes to manning parts of the company. We are therefore pleased that the management has now grasped this, and that the air traffic controller lack seems to resolve within a reasonable time. Aviation is a very important part of communication in Norway. It has been developing rapidly in recent years, and the need for the development of Avinor’s installations has been great. In addition to the increase in traffic, there has been a formidable increase in the requirement for safety controls on passengers. These are not just national requirements, but international rules that we have to deal with. Still, we're worried about the costs here. Until now, the company has been doing fairly well and has managed most of the development costs through the increased revenue received by the company during the increase in traffic we have had in the last ten years. Then came the financial crisis, and we had a strong drop in traffic and thus also in revenue. It has therefore recently been necessary to refrain from dividends from the company and to contribute part-financing in the development of security measures at some of the smaller airports. The forecasts now suggest that we will have a good increase in air traffic. In order to deal with this, large investments are needed in the coming years. This will be demanding for the company, and it will be important for the Ministry of Transport to follow these developments closely. The level of charges for airlines, both the en route charge and the landing charge, is already high in Norway. It is important that it does not increase significantly. Therefore, the right, together with the majority of the Committee, agrees with the Ministry when expressing concerns about the development of costs in the company and supports the implementation of a separate project to compare the cost-effectiveness of Avinor with other suppliers. There are two areas I want to underline the importance of. One is that the infrastructure must be designed in such a way that passengers must be guaranteed accessibility in line with the vision of a universally designed society. It may be appropriate to make improvements to existing installations and, in particular, to ensure that major improvements are carried out. The second concern is related to the braking power of the runway under winter conditions. We therefore assume that Avinor pays a lot of attention to this problem in the next few years. The message we are discussing now concerns only Avinor’s activities and not the entire spectrum of aviation issues in Norway. Such issues also receive little attention in the national transport plan. That's why the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, believes that it would be useful to get your own big message, not just about Avinor's business, but about aviation in general, and therefore suggests it. The right is also concerned that Avinor’s own aerodromes should not be a driving force for competition in aerodrome operations in Norway and thus for the development of an aerodrome network that best meets the need for air transport. We would like to stress here that especially Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge carry out important societal tasks through their activities, and it is important that these get good and predictable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3104	As a member of the former Transport Committee, I thank Mr Arne Sortevik for the case leadership. I know this is an area he fights to get a message in the old committee. Now he's finally reached that goal and got to present the cause. Then we may be dissenting political, but thank you for the case-speakership. I think the new Transport Committee should welcome the old Minister for Transport, who is now back in his old field. She is probably sorry that she has changed to another subject! There is a lot about Copenhagen at the moment. It's about climate, it's about giving people the opportunity to choose climate-friendly. Yesterday I went to open the double-track Stavanger-Sandnes, which allows more people to park their car and take the train. That means we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We don't have that same possibility at any distance. It is not possible for people to choose an environment-friendly option. Hanne Bjurstrøm, our chief negotiator in Copenhagen, said she wanted to pick up flights and take the train to Copenhagen and Europe and connect to the European high-speed network. It seemed to me to be a good starting point when we talk about air traffic, that we also have to think about the alternatives that actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions – just to have said that. There is a part that goes to Copenhagen, I have registered, with more private solutions. But if one takes a scheduled flight to Copenhagen from Oslo, there is an equal amount of greenhouse gas emissions on the one trip that two inhabitants of Bangladesh have on an entire year. Then it is understandable that the responsibility lies more here at home with us when it comes to doing something about it. This has the potential to connect to the high-speed network in Norway through the arrangements to be made. We can start with it and connect to Europe when we build Oslo-Ski. To have told Sverre Quale and others who are present here from Avinor, I would like to have the flight to Stavanger – not via Gardermoen – in the long term. That being said, it is not that I get my will as quickly as I want. That means that I have to be part of and defend some of the arrangements that exist today. Cross-subsidy concerns. For we all see that we need some airports where there are no options, and where the plane is the collective offer one has. Of course, this applies in the north, but also to some places in the west. Then we must have a system of funding that is solidarity. There are probably today four airports with excess, and Gardermoen is the driving force in this. By tearing away the foundation for it, we will frame the district airports. Someone has as usual cheap solutions, and they pay off with the state's money when they come up with new suggestions on how to solve things. I think it's very important that we do what's in Soria Moria II – make sure that we don't weaken the airports we have that make money, and make sure we have good district airports. That's simply what's a danger to the two private airports that are now private and public airports, which we have at Torp and Rygge. Soria Moria II insists that we should not do this. Finally, a couple of critical comments to Avinor and Avinor. Over the last few years, we have changed a lot about the framework. We don't have any dividends, we've given you borrowing opportunities, and we even have our way to Avinor a short time ago. Then I thought it was strange that at my own airport – the Sun – it was not built universally, and that one also set up a new hotel, which, in my opinion, is gambling with what is happening in the world today associated with the financial crisis. I think that Avinor can go through the plans they have, given that they have an important social function to perform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3128	Now we have a big message about Avinor's business. I think that is very good, and I think that the message creates a good picture of the development of the company since the previous message. There's a lot that's happened in the ten years, and there's no doubt that there's a lot that's on a very positive track. I'm very happy about that. I also think it is important that we now have a firm commitment that we should have new messages every four years – I think it is wise – to discuss what developments are like in the company, and in the light of other developments in society on the transport side. For many of us living in District Norway, flights and airports are an important part of public transport. It would almost be impossible to imagine that you could commute between North Norway and Oslo without planes. It's important that it can be like this in the future as well. Although I'm a member of a high-speed train, I see that it will be almost impossible, at least in the first run of the high-speed rail future, to imagine that we'll get it as far north as we can. Then it's important to have a structure at the airports that makes it possible to travel in the future, and to secure a financial solution, a financing, that's robust in the future as well. The cross-subsidy that we have today is a solidarity system that is going to finance those airports that are not profitable, and it's important that it can be such a system in the future as well. Airports and local airports are involved in developing a region and can create new jobs, new opportunities. It is important to have the opportunity to make the investments needed to implement new solutions and links between aircraft and public transport and between aircraft and other transport. It is important because, as a general rule, Avinor is going to finance it itself, but at the same time I think it was timely that we, together with Avinor, were presented with a package of measures for 2009, when air traffic went down as part of the financial crisis. Security is important, and the possibility of developing a functional offer means that more investment is needed in the future if we are to have efficient traffic management. Then you have to do some grip in the future. I fully agree with previous speakers who have pointed out that there is a need to have a press on the personnel side as well to ensure a wise and good traffic management. I am pleased with what we have got so far, and I hope that we will also have a strong and robust Avinor in the future, which ensures that we have an air service throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3143	Let me begin by stressing the very basic starting point of this context, that Avinor's overarching objective is to facilitate safe, environmentally friendly and efficient aviation throughout the country, and that security should always be a priority. Aviation plays a very important role in Norway. Because of the large distances and the challenging topography, we depend on aviation to keep the scattered construction, which we want to have throughout the country. The Christian People's Party wants us to see aviation policy as a cure. We therefore have proposals that we have to get an air navigation message of our own. It's not enough to focus on state ownership policy and Avinor's business alone. As the majority also emphasises, aviation policy receives relatively little attention during the treatment of the national transport plan. An example of this is now when you, for example: discusses a new concession at Torp Airport, where I also record that the Prime Minister has signaled that Torp should be independent and be allowed to control itself, while the Air Safety Authority gives a signal that they want to control both scheduled times and prices. I'm not going to go into this, but it shows that we need to see aviation policy as a whole. Overarching strategies for Avinor is firm. Major investments have been and will be made due to safety and new requirements for the design of aerodromes. Reduced air traffic has also had a negative impact on Avinor's revenue. The Christian People's Party has registered that the Department is concerned about the development of costs in Avinor. This turbulence shares the Christian People's Party with the plurality of the Committee. Clear efficiency targets should be established. The development of large increases in costs and reduced revenues is not resilient. It is not a solution that taxpayers should take all of this account on their own. I also want to stress that Avinor will work well. The number of cancellations and delays seems to decrease from 2008 to 2009. It is also gratifying that the internal cooperation climate in Avinor has improved. Avinor also has a responsibility to facilitate people with disabilities. It's a responsibility that it's important that Avinor continues to focus on. All must be guaranteed good availability and conditions both at aerodromes and on the flight itself. I am therefore pleased that the plurality, which consists of the Right Party, the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, points to this. An example is, as the representative Langeland, Sola Airport. There have been development plans that have been changed without user organisations being involved. The majority therefore ask the Government to ensure the procedures for such participation in all matters involving passenger handling. The Christian People's Party has also stated in the past that Norway has to change the security control procedures for travellers coming from abroad and going on domestic flights. At Arlanda Airport, such a security check must not be performed during such voyages. One by the Gardermo. Governments have previously signalled that this is something they are looking at. There are now climate negotiations in Copenhagen. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that we stop and reflect on what kind of developments we want. The Christian People's Party wants a development that is resilient. We have therefore stated that we want a climate tax to be levied on all air travel, and that the money from it goes to climate action in poor countries. We want the railway network to be built up and upgraded to provide a real alternative to the transport of both passengers and goods by air, in terms of price, travel time and frequency of departure. And we think the expansion of the high-speed rail may be necessary to put in place a real alternative to air traffic. I take up the Christian People's Party proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3169	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3172	On behalf of the State Council, Meltveit Kleppa, I am happy to be here in Stortinget to discuss aviation. I also thank the representative of Langeland for the nice words in that context. I have a certain speed in this sector. In a piggy country such as Norway, aviation is important for sustaining the construction and employment of the entire country. For me, the state ownership of Avinor is a central political tool for the whole country to have a decent aviation offer. The social mission of Avinor is to secure a nationwide network of airports for civil aviation. Similarly, the company must provide a nationwide air navigation service, both for civil and military aviation. This is the reason why the state owns the company. Avinor is based on a joint financing principle. This means that the excess from the Business Surplus Airports shall cover the base of the Business Undershooting Airports. This is the best way we can secure a nationwide network of Airports. Continuously, there is a high standard at airports in Norway, and Avinor is at the top of Europe in terms of safety and punctuality. However, the company is facing major investments in the next few years. This is due to increased traffic and new safety requirements from the Air Safety Authority. At the same time, aviation has been the victim of the international financial crisis. In order to help Avinor in a difficult situation, the Stortinget has adopted package of measures for the company for both 2009 and 2010. In total, the packages have a value of over DKK 1.6 billion. In the message, the Ministry of Transport has also provided a more flexible dividend policy for Avinor over the next few years. In the interests of the airlines, I have not increased the tariff level beyond the price rise in 2010. We now see an improvement in the situation of aviation. It is therefore a goal that Avinor should be able to carry out its investments without the support of the government over the next few years. In order for this to be possible, Avinor must contribute with a more efficient operation of the company. The costs in Avinor have grown monthly over the last few years, and I will make strict demands on cost-effectiveness in the future. Nevertheless, developments in aviation and the Avinor economy are uncertain. So I want to follow the situation closely. If further action is needed, I will return to the Storting in later budget proposals. Avinor is still missing air traffic controllers. The reason for this is misassessments that were made before we took over the government’s power of red-green in 2005. Avinor now has notice that it will take a little longer to get a full crew in place than what was announced in the message. I want to make sure that Avinor does what is possible to fix the defect as quickly as possible. However, Avinor is able to sustain the production of air navigation services by the air traffic controllers working much overtime. This is expensive for Avinor and has helped to raise the costs of air navigation services. The lack of air traffic control is thus a cost problem. In addition, it is unfortunate that production is based on overtime. When it comes to aviation security, I would like to point out that the European air navigation organisation Eurocontrol has recently stated that the safety culture of the Avinor air navigation service is a European leader. Avinor shall be a driver and an facilitator to mitigate the negative climate and environmental impacts of aviation. I am satisfied that the company is working to reduce the growth of greenhouse gas emissions from all over the industry and has concrete objectives for the collective part of the housing services. Universal layout shall ensure that there are fewer special arrangements available to make the most of the regular offer. It follows from the new laws of discrimination and futures that Avinor should facilitate universal design. I am in a process to ensure consistency between the aviation sector legislation and the laws of discrimination and the future. The Government has developed a policy that will provide the basis for a good development in Avinor over the next few years. I am sure that this policy will help Avinor to take care of its important social mission also in the time to come, and thus help us to continue to have economic activity in society or to build it all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3204	Also, I have to be allowed to express that it is nice to meet the Council of State again in this field, even if it is just a guest appearance. The examination of the case has revealed that it will take another five years before we have satisfactory coverage with regard to air traffic controllers. It becomes – in my mind – easy to blame those who had government responsibility for the period before 2005-2009. It is also clear that those with ownership responsibility in the previous period must take their share of responsibility for a delay. And of course, it's not a good solution to base this on overtime and high costs for five years. My question is concrete: In addition to additional overtime use, with high costs, what will be done to provide enough air traffic controllers faster than by the end of 2014, and how will the Stortinge get feedback on this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3213	Avinor is a company with a self-management – a board of directors and a day-to-day management. It is the Board of Directors and the day-to-day rental of Avinor that, within the framework set, is responsible for ensuring safety, ensuring that we have a satisfactory flight offer, and ensuring that we have the air traffic controllers needed. That I pointed to the inheritance from the Bondevik administration was not a cause, but an explanation of why one has had a big problem when this government took over four years ago, but as one has calmed down, one can say, and one has had effective operation. There is a lack of leak capacity that is a bottleneck. In addition, those trained should also be trained to seize the other air traffic controllers. We don't have enough capacity to explain this more than what the board of Avinor and the board of directors find defensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3220	If the representative wants a follow-up replica, he can have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3223	Yes, but about a slightly different theme. I was in the security-costs of my main post. Over the course of five years, they've risen from just over 500 million. NOK 1 billion this year. Other countries finance part of these costs with government contributions. Will the Council of State consider partial State funding, or does the Council of State consider that security measures at Norwegian airports, in order to protect passengers from possible terrorist attacks, continue to be paid in full by passengers themselves or through revenues from newspapers and spirits?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3230	I am asking for the reason that I went to the smiling band of the clarification of the representative of Sortevik, but I believe that regardless of how the income is obtained, the income that is legally obtained to Avinor, a broad funding, both through commercial operations and through the fees that are collected. The security charge will remain unchanged from 2009 to 2010, which is a positive news. It is clear that the new requirements of the EU have led to a strong increase. I am pleased that the EU is now discussing how to simplify security procedures and thus also reduce the level of costs, but from the Government and the Department, it is well done how to finance this in the future, and there are no new plans in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3237	The functioning state council has a competence in this field, so I also choose to ask a question that goes a little bit into the field here. We now have the climate negotiations in Copenhagen, and we have major environmental challenges. When we look at the tax regime in Norway and Scandinavia, it's not asking what planes are landing. If we look at other parts of Europe, for example, we have to do this. they fly there with larger emissions, pay more in charge when they land at airports in Europe. So it's not the case in Norway, here we have the same fee regardless of which plane it is. Does the Council of State see that one can go against a development where one has to pay for the output of one, so that one gets a principle in which the person who is responsible for the environmental impact has to pay, and that Avinor also has to impose an environmental regime for its taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3244	In the light of the current climate debate in Copenhagen, and not least in the light of the situation we have in the global community, it is quite clear that aviation too is taking its share of responsibility, and that one also in aviation is based on the principle of forureins paying, as we do in that sector. Whether or not to deal with such a system – we are now working to get aviation into the allowance system – which will in some way address a part of that problem, it is too early to give a concrete answer now. But it is quite clear that it is important from the Ministry's point of view to discuss these issues in the future, so that in this sector, too, we can guarantee the fundamental principle of impure payment. The fee level may also be differentiated from that, but I can't say anything more about it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3249	It is nice that the Council of State is on the guest appearance in Stortinget today. I want to challenge the Council of State on what she said earlier about her being in favour of the cross-subsidy system, and that it is a solidarity system. And I also want to challenge the Council of State on what she says about her being very busy getting a high-speed train in Norway. How will this solidarity system be able to finance all regional airports if a high-speed train is to be installed? Is it, then, that there are other solidarity systems you want to look at, in order to be able to finance the airports out in the districts that you want to be there still, or are you going to put down the airports when you get a high-speed train in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3256	It is quite right, as the representative Hoksrud says, that both myself and today's Minister of Transport have the same view when it comes to the solidarity co-financing system that we have in Norway, and will be busy in being able to continue into the future. How it will turn out, given the construction of a high-speed train, it may be a little early to give up the phase today, but it will be so that it will be up to the bulk of the congestion at any time and the willingness of the sitting government to finance the regional aviation network, which will decide whether it will exist in the future, either by co-financing or by other means of financing, read: most likely the state budget. So it's a question that has to be included in the overall discussions when it comes to how the future transport system in Norway should be designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3261	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3267	The last answer was a little bit more uplifting. Aviation has been developing rapidly in the last ten years, but aviation issues are receiving little attention in the roll-out of the national transport plan. I've said that from this pulpit many times. Therefore, for a long time, the Progress Party has considered it useful and important to present its own forecast – not just about Avinor’s operations, but about aviation in general. We have proposed this many times, and it has been voted down by all the other parties. We are pleased that at least the Right Party and the Christian Party now share our view of this. It is also the case that a strategy note was actually made under the authority of the Government of Aviation. Then it becomes even more strange and incomprehensible that you cannot pass it on in the form of a message to Stortinget. The Progress Party believes that in such an aviation notification we need to be informed of Avinor’s future financial position, so that we get clear, long-term and predictable funding, where lower profits – not just on a single year or on a more random basis, but in a predictable system – are included, and that greater State contributions to infrastructure and all types of security measures are also included. The Progress Party also believes that alternative funding models for today’s cross-subsidies need to be considered, not least the purchase of transport services by the State, as we know from aviation itself and also from other transport sectors. Let me also say that the period 2005-2007 — this communication also looks backwards — is characterised by a poor cooperation climate in the company, which has caused great delays for travellers, lack of air traffic controllers and significant cost increases. It has been a difficult period, not least for the travellers. The Progress Party notes that the Department is also «disturbed by the development of costs in Avinor». That unrest also shares the party of progress. We are committed to the Government establishing clear efficiency targets for the company. I mentioned in my first post that the security costs have grown. I mentioned in the line here that they have grown from 1⁄2 million. NOK 1 million. kr from 2005 to 2009. In the view of the Progress Party, there should be limits to the amount of these costs to be borne by users if aviation is to have good framework conditions. We know that in the United Kingdom, in the United States and in Canada, the authorities finance some of these costs. We know that in Germany, governments finance the majority of security costs. We want more government involvement. We are asking for such costs to be covered already in the revised 2010 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3284	In this debate, too, several articles have been made where climate has been an important focus area. Then it's interesting to record what's in today's VG that the Prime Minister doesn't have time to use the air's public transport, which is aircraft, to Copenhagen, but has to rent a private plane to go to the Copenhagen climate negotiations. I had hoped that they would have used the public transport that is in the air, which would have gone regardless of whether the Prime Minister or others are in or out. At least it would have reduced CO2 emissions by using the public transport of air instead of using private aircraft. It is very good that we finally get this Avinor message for treatment in Stortinget. It's been here a long time. It was relatively late, and a hectic period according to the national transport plan is probably due to the fact that it has also been lying for a while. So I think it's exciting to hear that the representatives are so fascinated by the cross-subsidisation system, that it's so nice and so solidarity. I thought it was that when you spend the money of the state and the community, it's also about solidarity that you should spend the money for the benefit of people who have paid them in. Then you want to be sure that you actually get the services, regardless of whether the alcohol sale in the tax-free shop goes up or down, or whether other unforeseen things happen that affect whether Gardermoen, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger can contribute or not, or whether other airports can contribute or not. I had hoped that a more predictable system would actually be put in place, as the Progress Party has called for, and that this would also be given over the state budget to ensure that you get a proper flight offer in the districts and that you want to maintain a good flight offer. I would also like to say that when we deal with this message, it is a little sad that we cannot also have a comprehensive treatment of the entire aviation industry in Norway. There are five airports that are not part of the Avinor system, and we should also have included in this discussion: Stord, Skien, Notodden, Torp and Rygge, which is also an important part of Norwegian aviation. They should also be here. I know that there's a lot of turmoil especially on Torp and Back out of what the government said – and that I've put into a red perm, it should probably be red and green. Many people are very uncertain about what the government really thinks when it says that in the case of the two airports in particular, you have to limit them because they are in competition with Avinor's system. When the state sits as a regulator, owner, and in many ways can control all the conditions, it becomes competitive for these two airports, so I really hope you find a good solution that allows the airports to compete on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3302	It's important to see Avinor's role in a slightly more international context. One may sometimes feel that Norway is an island, but it is now actually such that we are completely dependent on things being linked. This means that domestic traffic is coupled with foreign traffic. When talking about small places having alternative solutions by bus, train, etc., one must also see this in the context of flights to abroad which are also dependent on domestic traffic. The reason I took the floor was the Council of Ministers of Navarsete's rejection of the fact that the red-green government has something to do with the number of air traffic controllers who have been trained. In fact, proposals were made in 2005 and 2007 to establish an aviation training programme focusing on air traffic controllers at the University of Kristiansand. There was also a signing of an agreement of intent that had secured approx. 25 places to train air traffic controllers. If the red-green government had been willing to look at what was then proposed, we would not have had the problem with too few air traffic controllers today. This was true, as I said, not only of air traffic controllers, but also of traffic pilots. There was enough prestige in that matter in relation to the University of Tromsø. We now see in retrospect that nothing has happened. Neither traffic pilot training, air traffic controller training nor logistical training in the aeronautical field has become any of these. I have to say again: had one said yes at the time to this, had an environment that had ensured Norway's food competence in this area. It had been in collaboration with Lund University in Sweden and also Denmark's Technical University in Copenhagen. So today we had a fantastic environment with a focus on aviation training in Norway. So instead of looking at other countries, you sometimes buy some space if it's in the United States or where it is. Norway will be reset. The red-green government had all the possibilities to get this up and up, but they tuned this down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3309	I think it is quite interesting to listen to the rhetoric of the Progress Party about this with cross-subsidy and what the state is going to pay. Avinor is no longer part of the administration. But anyway, the Progress Party believes that they prefer to pay in full with respect to security, and they have to pay in full for those non-profit airports. I am surprised that the Progress Party does not simply propose to take the entire Avinor back to the administration, because at least they had full control of the whole package. Then you could also have clean state transfers everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3316	To the previous speaker: to suggest that we might as well take Avinor back to the administration must at best be a short cut. So the state is the sole owner of the company, and ownership can be actively exercised. Obviously, this has not been done in the previous period when we have extended the problems of getting enough air traffic controllers. But it is also true that from the transport sector we know well about state purchases of services. It is fully feasible to implement, but to a greater extent than what is being done today. That's the one. This also gives me an opportunity to comment on the air traffic controller situation. It's worrying that we're going into a new five-year period with too few air traffic controllers. We may run the risk that we will again face difficult situations with delays and problems in traffic. I'm questioning the answer that was given, when we know that one of the measures taken by the company to get enough air traffic controllers is to buy educational capacity in the United States. You've rehearsed the good connection that Avinor's previously cut. The question is whether there is a lack of capacity, or whether there are cost limitations that make Avinor perhaps not buying enough capacity. Or it is that there are not enough current applicants from Norway who want that type of education. But as long as you can buy top-quality international air traffic controller training in the United States, you should put all the cloths on to at least use the card maximum to cut down on the five years as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3325	Arne Sortevik is the rapporteur on the matter and therefore received more than a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3343	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each group and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3352	Let me first point out that there has been a small error in the setting. Many have been up here and said that they are satisfied with the work of the committee. It probably went a little fast when the transport committee dealt with this matter. On page 2, which reads ‘the majority of the committee, the members from’, etc., it says that the Progress Party is part of the majority. So that's not true. We were not in that committee comment. I hope this can eventually be corrected in. The section thus begins with the ‘majority of the Committee’ and ends with the ‘establishment of a broader political alliance’ at the bottom of the page. So to the matter itself. The background of the proposition is that it is necessary to administer Oslopackak 3 approximately DKK 1 billion due to reduced traffic through the bombing process, as well as exceedances on Rv. 150 Ulven–Sinsen, E18 Bjørvika and Kolsåsbanen. In the proposal, the Government proposes that this billion be provided through a loan to the toll company Mountain Line, which the drivers have to pay down through tolls. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal, while the Progress Party wants state full funding. As the rapporteur-general for this matter, I am very pleased that the Committee across the party borders is in agreement on the importance of the Oslo area for Norway. An overall committee agrees that competitive Norwegian cities are also very important for Norway’s competitiveness internationally and that the Oslo region plays a central role in the new knowledge-based economy. An overall committee agrees that Oslo is in direct competition with the metropolitan regions of Copenhagen, Malmö, Stockholm and Helsinki. If Oslo loses in this competition to attract international businesses and knowledge environments, this is also a loss for Norway. An overall committee has realised that the population of the Oslo area is increasing, and population projections show that the population of Oslo will increase by 39 pst. by 2030, while the population of Akershus will increase by 34 pst. during the same period. An overall committee stresses that this must also have implications for the policy on transport in the Oslo area in the years to come, and that the Oslo area in this context includes all the municipalities that are part of the cooperation alliance for the Oslo region. Despite the agreement of the Committee on the strategic importance of the Oslo area for Norway and Norwegian business, the Committee is not in agreement on its impact on transport policy. While the Progress Party believes that the State should finance the development of roads in the Oslo area and Norway as a whole, the majority of the Committee would like to give the entire bill to the drivers in the Oslo region. Every year, the state collects around 60 billion kroner in car and fuel taxes, but uses only approx. NOK 20 billion for operation, maintenance and investment in the road network. It is unreasonable for the drivers to pay tolls in addition to this. With the proposal proposed by the majority in this position, the drivers will be charged with approximately an additional charge. 750 million. kr in addition to what was at stake when Oslopackak 3 was adopted last year – if you have to hold on for 25 years before this is paid off. In addition, there may also be significant additional collection costs if the time for collection has to be extended beyond the 25 years on which it is already based. The Progress Party, on the other hand, wants the Oslo drivers to release tolls in the future, and I would like to remind you that the Advance Party Urban Steering Group actually made proposals for referendums on the matter in 2006. Today’s Business Today it says that the state has ‘assessed NOK 3.8 billion less in motor vehicle charges than at the same time last year’. The head of the financial committee at Stortinget, Torgeir Micaelsen, says to the business community today that the proceeds of the car charges should be maintained and that it should be made through higher new car charges on normal family cars. This is frightening, but unfortunately not surprising, given what the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre write in the State budget, that ‘the one-off fee is primarily intended to provide the State with income’. Finally, let me make it clear that the Advance Party does not agree with this. I would like to make a point of what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has proposed in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3371	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3374	It is said that the urgency is loading work, and the setting may bear the mark of it. I promise the representative Hoksrud that I will not use it against him that they are in a comment on an incurrency. With the decision that we have here been invited to take, we are ensuring progress for planned projects in Oslopackakt 3 for 2010. Oslopackak 3 is a huge package for road, rail and public transport investments in Oslo and Akershus. The package is not unknown to Stortinget, and this is hardly the last time we deal with matters that deal with it. It is transport solutions for the most populous region in the country that will face several challenges in the field of transport in the years to come, challenges that will and will have to be met. That decision, minus the Progress Party, will probably take place later this evening, gives the Mountain Line as a toll company the opportunity to raise a loan of approximately DKK 1 billion to cover expenditure for 2010. The decision will be in line with the proposed Oslopackak 3 Steering Group, which has received broad support in both Oslo City Council and Akershus County Council. I record that the Progress Party gives its support in Oslo, while the trade agency Kallmyr communicates negatively in the media around this. Kalldmyr is also one of two politicians who sit in the steering group. I'm not going to go into what local politicians of the Progress Party think, but I'm a little difficult to relate to the double communication with the Progress Party, who first asks for something, and then really don't want it anyway. They're going to vote against here in the hall, they're too local, but at the same time they're saying they're against. It's going to be a pretty confusing picture. I'm glad that the other parties are united on this and take care of the consensus we also find locally, a consensus that has been crucial to getting the package in place. I also believe that one of the architects behind the package, former travel agency in Oslo, the current big-time representative of the Progress Party, Peter N. Myhre, is very pleased – I see that he has also signed up on the list of speakers – even though his party group will vote against it. The representative Myhre is cordially welcome to vote for what he has been working on locally, which was a good suggestion. The package has constantly involved tolls, with the blessing of the Progress Party locally in Oslo. One of the strengths of Oslopackak 3, as I see it, is the local unity that has been, and that remains. This helps to ensure the progress of the package and maintain the pressure. The management board, consisting of only two politicians, has not been broadly composed. It has been decided locally to set up a policy reference group with broader representation. The majority of the Committee considers this to be positive and believes that this can contribute to ensuring the local unity that has been and continues to exist. Oslopackak 3 is one of the largest transportation projects – if not the largest – we have had in the country, over 50 billion kroner. With the state's contribution to rail development in the area, we get a good interaction between local and central authorities. I am pleased that today we are involved in ensuring the progress of the projects, but at the same time will point to the importance of finding out locally how to ensure further progress. Here, the broad reference group will play an important role, and it is only to wish happiness for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3389	The representative, Kjernli, has done well for what is the view of the plural in this matter. Let me still go a little bit further on a couple of points. When it comes to the Progress Party, it's consistent that when good architects get results and actions locally, and then comes to the Storting, it's the end of the action force. Then it's over in a role where it's just to prove that you have money for everything through government promises, but where you – not least the representative Myhre – know that it doesn't happen without local action. We have also seen it illustrated when the Progress Party was in position here on the Stortinget: how important is it to remove the tolls when negotiating a budget? It's not important at all. Not once have they taken 5 cents away from the tolls, because they have prioritised other things – and not managed to get through to it. But then it comes to spokesmen for the Storting who want better roads, infrastructure and public transport, etc. for the inhabitants, as Myhre has joined Oslo, that one can also use tolls for public transport – very good! Then one as a politician shows the power of action. But then they come here to the house and they're made and bound by the Progress Party to be on things that don't lead the world one centimeter forward. If they had seen the power behind the demands when they were in position under Bondevik II, I would say something else, but something more pinglets than the Progress Party when they got in position, I have never seen. So it's like there's challenges in Oslo anyway. There is a great responsibility for the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. They must now prove that the climate agreement that they boast of having negotiated here on the Storting, almost deficient in the Government's will, is now being followed up locally. I have heard that Oslopack 3 will increase pollution, increase CO2 emissions by 18 pst. It will be contrary to what the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party are going through in the Storting, as they say themselves, in relation to the responsibility that a new one is going to take in Copenhagen. Now I really hope that the representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Left – if they show up, because they have enough to do as two representatives – and the Right, do their best to follow up with their comrades in Oslo with a view to bringing down greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring that the climate agreement is respected. I see that there are complicated elements in Oslo as long as the Progress Party is not involved in the climate agreement. But whatever happens now in Oslo when it comes to the decision we make today – where we give the Mountain Line the opportunity to borrow money – will be a proof of, a litmus test of, if those who, from this pulpit, are constantly boasting of the climate agreement, boasting of how good they have been to drive it through, follow this up. It gets exciting for my party and for the government to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3407	This is an important issue to ensure that the metropolitan region is well developed. Oslo Package 3 provides good investment both for good collective solutions and for ways to meet today's and future challenges in terms of population growth in this region. This is today a region, Oslo and Aksershus, which has more than 1 million inhabitants. By 2030 there will be 1.5 million inhabitants in this region, and by 2055-2060 there will be over 2 million in this region. That is why we need good action, and that is what we are doing today. It is important that the Storting says yes to the borrowing. This means that a rational progress is being made in implementing measures. If these funds hadn't come, one would have risked a stop in e.g. the construction of Kolsåsbanen, a track that will contribute to a greater proportion of the public passenger. I would also like to remind you that there is not enough cost to make this decision, but there are income cuts that mean that we have to get on the road. I am actually pleased with the decline in car traffic, but I also note that it is a part of providing less revenue for good action. I'm also very happy to see the political unity that characterizes Oslopackak 3 regionally and locally. So here's a wide collection of Akershus-Oslo who supports Oslopackak 3. In fact, I feel that this region has now learned from other regions in the country, that it is important to stand together in order to bring forward great national emphasis. This is an important matter that I wholeheartedly support. I also hope - this is in a way only part of Oslopackage 3 for the coming years - that we will see revised Oslopackages 3 which contain new items. There are challenges along the E18, I can imagine. In a debate before the week before, there was also mention of footpaths. To the representative of Langeland, I would like to say that this agreement that Oslopak 3 builds is precisely in line with the climate agreement. When it comes to the text to which several speakers referred during the budgetary negotiations of the previous weeks, it is precisely that there should be a local decision attached to some of the instruments. Yes, there should be car-reducing measures, but what measures should be there, so it should be the local authorities that decide. But first of all, I'm glad that we are now getting a case that will mean a lot to the capital region, and that will mean that in the future we will get even better collective solutions, which will make the part of collective travellers even bigger in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3418	The government has submitted a proposal asking the Storting to consent to a loan of up to SEK 1.1 billion for Oslopackak 3 in 2010. I am pleased that the Committee has joined this proposal. The Oslopacket 3 Steering Group has, as is well known, presented a proposal for an action programme on road and rail actions for the period 2010–2013. Both the municipality of Oslo and Akershu County have joined this action programme. A rolling action program has been launched from a local source every year. Basic portfolio management for Oslopackakt 3 has been added and implementation shall take place through targeted governance. The revision of the package and portfolio shall be carried out by rolling out the national transport plan, the action programme and the annual budgets. I will come back to the Storting in the new year when it concerns the main device of the Oslopacket 3 action programme for the first four-year period. The activity of Oslopackakt 3 in 2010 will mainly be linked to actions and projects already under way. The proposal in Prop. 53 S debt borrowings for Oslopackak 3 in 2010 for financing projects under construction. There is a net funding contribution from the 2010 bombing of approximately DKK 1.8 billion, while the need for other funding to implement Oslopackak 3 projects within the areas of responsibility of Akershus County, Oslo Municipality and Statens vägvesen for 2010 is approximately DKK 2.8 billion. Thus, the 2010 bombardment revenue base is slightly lower than expected. This, together with bindings, relate to road and collective projects that have already started, such as Rv. 150 Ulven–Sinsen, E18 Bjørvika and Kolsåsbana and Stortinget are leading to at least 25 pst. of the annual toll revenue shall be earmarked for the financing of operations and for less maintenance investments before public transport, the Oslopack 3 Steering Group has proposed a borrowing for approximately DKK 1 billion in 2010. It is necessary with the consent of the Storting that Mountain Line AS may take up such a loan in 2010. I am pleased that both the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County have joined the proposal on a broad political basis. Future interest costs on a larger borrowing in 2010 must be covered by real re-priorities from other measures in Oslopackak 3. This is also the basis for work on the action programme for the period 2010–2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3438	I want to challenge the Council of State: When it turns out that revenue goes down, and some of the costs have gone up, and the majority of the majority, with the government parties at the head, in the context of the treatment of Oslopackak 3 chose to impose demands in view of the collective burden of the Oslopackak, shouldn't it also be a perfectly reasonable requirement that the State contribute in the same way, in order to cover up the share for which the State should take responsibility? Or does the Council of State think it's entirely right that it's the drivers who, over and over again, are going to get the extra bill that the majority here in the Grand Council just imposes on them, and that the money goes to things other than actually building a road, which was what the drivers were supposed to pay for?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3445	The majority in Stortinget have agreed on a development in which we are moving towards a stronger commitment to public transport in this nationalized area. It is absolutely necessary for us to solve the challenges associated with the fact that, over the years to come, there will be population growth in the Oslo area. It's important that people can get to and from work and from other activities in a good way. We don't solve those challenges by building more and more roads. It solves us through a collective effort. The fact that Oslopak 3 has received such a device with a strong collective effort is very gratifying. This will help us to have a forward-looking, environmentally friendly and sensible development of the traffic pattern in the Oslo region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3451	Oslopackak 3 is, as you know, a total project portfolio with a final price of NOK 53 billion. It contains a project list, and there are quite careful cost estimates for each project in the package. So now there are a number of projects that were started before Oslopackak 3 was adopted, which are swallowing more and more fresh Oslopackak 3 drugs. My question is then: is the Council of State concerned, as is the case in the political environment in Oslo, that these constant exceedances of ongoing road projects are in the process of distorting projects that may not even be included in Oslo-Packet 3 at the end?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3458	There is no doubt that Oslopackak 3, with the large volume of the package, is a portfolio package that is composed of projects that will eventually come into being. It is also true that it is the Oslopack 3 Steering Group that is constantly making proposals for the local policy environment adopted by Oslo and Akershus, which is the basis for the priorities taken up in Oslopack 3. It has also been so in this case. I mean, it's the right way to organize Oslopackakt3. But when it comes to overshooting by multiple projects coming in, there is always cause for concern about the possible consequences. But with the growth we see in the traffic pattern here, which I also hope it will be more of in the collective field, it is enough that revenue will increase in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3467	Everyone agrees with the Council of State that it is important to bet on public transport in large cities. That is why the Progress Party has put forward a proposal to spend DKK 100 billion in the four largest cities over a period of several years. But the Council of State would not answer my question. Therefore, I should like to repeat the question, which is quite simple and straightforward: is it not reasonable for the State to help cover its share of the increased costs and reduced revenues associated with the toll collection? We also know that the state has imposed quite a number of heavy projects – with large exceedances. Should not the State be involved and contribute its share when there are exceedances of that magnitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3474	Governments have no answer to anything other than what has been given through the guided tours of Oslopackak 3 that have been presented to Stortinget. There will also be a new year's notice on the supplementary device of Oslopackak 3. There, the entries in the national transport plan will also be linked to the package and to what has been submitted before the size of the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3479	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3484	Since I have already been visited in this debate, I would like to say that the Progress Party has a different view of financing Oslopackak 3, which differs somewhat from what was proposed by Oslo City Council and Akershu County, is a matter for itself. But the strongest attack on the Oslopack 3 deal has come a long time ago – just after its adoption. It came from the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport who wanted to replace the toll system with a rush-time charge, or a road pricing system, which is far from what was the compromise between the parties in Oslo and Akershus. So I want to say that I think this proposition is a little bit strange. Initially, these are projects such as Rv. 150 Wolves–Sinsen, referred to as E18 Bjørvika, and referred to as Kolsåsbanen. It is also estimated that next year's toll revenue will be DKK 1.8 billion – it may be a little early to start with estimates of it already now, but it is now there. Then it's recommended that Mountain Line AS take up a loan of SEK 1.1 billion, and it's specified in a strange way – in an obscure way. It says "Large Project Oslo" 900 million. kr, it says ‘Stretching measures’ of EUR 113 million. kr, «Larger public transport measures» 412 million. SEK and «Stretching measures» in Akershus 196 million. kr, but there is no reference to the nature of these distance measures or major projects. Together with some others, it is rounded off with a budget of 2,844 million. NOK, and then there are some of us getting a little bit scared. Is it that the Council of State knows something the Storting doesn't know? Is it the case that there is now another cost explosion for the Bjørvika project and another cost explosion for the Ulven-Sinsen project? I remind you that at the time Stortinget was invited to decide on the two projects – in St.prp. No 37 for 1996-1997 – thus, the Bjørvika project was estimated at SEK 1.3 billion, while the Wolf–Sinsen project was estimated at SEK 310 million. kr. I think that this proposition should contain an up-to-date information, as the Storting is invited to grant an authorisation to the extent that it is stated in this case. Simply put, can we get new cost figures? I challenge the Council of State: Can we get a final price tag for the Bjørvika project and the Ulven-Sinsen project from the Council of State here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3495	Let me first say that it's rarely the Storting's settings are longer than the propositions made by the Government. It is clear that when the proposition and the setting together are less than five pages, the Storting cannot be responsible for the difficulty of getting involved in the matter. The matter is quite well available. Oslopacket 3 is important for meeting the traffic challenges in the metropolitan region. In fact, the Stortinget should pay tribute to the local politicians in Oslo and Akershus, both for the work done in the 1980s with Oslopakka – which eventually became Oslopakka 1 – what was done in the 1990s with Oslopakka 2 and what has been done with Oslopakka 3 in recent years. In particular, it is appropriate to pay tribute to former transport agency Peter N. Myhre in Oslo, who was the driving force and the prime engine in this way to think about, and in this way to present packages that led to broad political consensus in Oslo and Akershus. Now we have challenges at the entrance to Oslopakka. In 2010, there are challenges because we need to finance projects under way. That is why one of them has come up with the solution that has now been proposed, namely that the Mountain Line is allowed to borrow. But we must stress that this is not a solution for all the coming years in the existence of Oslopackak 3. Let me also give tribute to the Government for having so clearly understood the Storting's decision that 25 pst. toll revenue shall be used for the operation of public transport and that proportion shall not be touched. In order to meet the traffic challenges, we are totally dependent on maintaining the share of public transport. I'll finally mention a couple more points. Firstly, it is important, as well as the functioning Minister of Transport – former Minister of Transport, even – that in the new year, the Stortinget will be presented with a case on the Oslopacket 3 action programme for 2010–2013, and the Stortinget may then have an overall review of the entire project. The last point I want to mention is that Oslopackak 3 is a large and comprehensive transport package. During the 20-year period, there will be changes that make it important for one to have broad political processes in Oslo and Akershus. That is why there is a need for even better and more thorough political processes. In this context, it is important to establish the policy reference group outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3510	Well, I guess when you're bragging at political opponents, you have to listen, because that's what you're meant to be. But I really took the floor because the council would not answer my question. I have also registered that the Council of State has signed up on the list of speakers, so now I hope she will respond. So the point is that the wolf split – Sinsen, rv. 150 – a project that at the time it was first submitted to Stortinget was costing 310 million. NOK – now has a cost of NOK 3.6 billion. It's pretty many times more than it really was that time. Even with the growth of prices, you are far from where you should have been. So now there's a political majority in favour of this package. Next year you will spend $1 billion on the project rv. 150 Wolf split – Sinsen, which was never part of either Oslo pack 1, 2 or 3. Here you're going to spend $1 billion, and it's the drivers that are going to have to pay this billion. In fact, the bulk of the population here should have grown and made sure that government funds were given to finance something that the state really wanted, which has not been part of the Oslo package. Obviously it's not like that. But I hope the Council of State will answer why it's so simple and easy just to send the bill to someone else, instead of actually taking the responsibility you have. When you impose things yourself, you should make sure to fund them too. Then I have to go back to the head of the committee. He says this has nothing to do with increased costs, but at least you have to be able to prove that this is far from the costs you calculated when you started at the Wolf–Sinsen, until you are today. So here it's been a big cost increase. And then I also think this is getting pretty funny, because what's happening is actually what the majority is so concerned about, that we're going to reduce car use. But then the toll revenue goes down. And then what is the solution? Well, we just borrow the money, so that the drivers can pay for even longer time, instead of taking the state responsibility under Section 20 of the Road Traffic Act on the state responsibility for the road network. This will to a large extent continue to be state roads — at least the Wolf–Sinsen will continue to be a state road. In the name of propriety: when the cost is as it is, and this is not part of the local Oslo packages from the beginning, at least the state should set up and take that cost. Then they had not had to take up a loan and charge the drivers with several hundred million dollars in extra billing in addition to what was provided for in Oslopackak 1, 2 or 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3521	It is exciting to be back, even though I am currently the seat of the Council of State in a social dialogue. There is not already a new item in this window, although there is a selection. Some debates are recognizable and have taken place before, and will certainly be taken many times in the future as well. What is recognizable is, of course, the Progress Party's inexhaustible funds box, their lack of experience in prioritizing resources and the eternal threat that the State will put in absolute all contexts. We've also heard that in a previous case today. I took the word to clarify that the need for borrowing is partly due to the commitment of the projects started, not overruns. That's right, our overruns on Rv. 150 Wolves–Sinsen, but not for E18 Bjørvika. The road is still within the cost frame. It's important that we stick to reality in a way. When it comes to Colsåsbana, the path is not a final set of costs, so what's there for funds is attached to an estimate. There have also been questions from the Committee on this, which have been answered by the Ministry. Then it is important to point out that tolls and loans for actions and projects in Oslopackak 3 in 2010 are only a partial financing of the package. The state, the county and the municipality also authorise funds for Oslopakak 3 in 2010, and overall, the action programme foresees that approximately SEK 4.3 billion will be spent on projects on national roads and local actions in Oslo and Akershus in the coming year. In addition, investments will be made for railway projects and several municipal projects in Oslo. So it's not like the state and the public system don't set up here, but one is also taking its share of the total cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3530	It's probably true, as the Council of State says, that in the state budget there are appropriations for Oslo linked to the Oslo package. We'll probably get a better overview of it when we get this mentioned action programme. But what's in this case is a borrowing that has an expense associated with it. There it is quite obvious that the government at all does not reflect on covering any of those costs. Depending on the length of the loan, the bill is also variable. But given that this loan stays standing for ten years, we're talking about an extra bill of 300 million. kr that the Government then smoothly serves to the drivers. Then the state councils realized that there was little new in some areas. In the eyes of the Progress Party, it is little new that the state's box is actually quite well filled. Actually, we're not alone in having that perception. I'm going to remember that Sigbjørn Johnsen, when he was in the state, shared this perception. It was as late as 2008, when new traces of transport policy were called for. A government loan scheme was requested to link state funds to investment in Norwegian infrastructure in Norway. Instead of spending money speculatively, many people believe that it is more appropriate and important to invest in Norwegian infrastructure at home after each part of the Progress Party. I record that County Governor Sigbjørn Johnsen has now become Minister of Finance and is no longer so concerned with the new tracks, so that it runs in old tracks. But at least a thought has been shown, and it is a thought The Progress Party has had a long time, namely that it is possible to link state wealth – an oil fund of SEK 2 600 billion – to a strong and growing need for an investment in Norwegian infrastructure, especially in the largest cities, of which Oslo is one. In fact, good transport solutions in the four largest Norwegian cities are a national project, should at least be. It is such that the State in the eyes of the Progress Party has an additional responsibility to ensure funding for the development of the good transport solutions in the four largest cities. Population growth alone should be a good, extra argument for that. Instead, it becomes tolls like a punishment for living in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3539	It was Hoksrud's last post that made me draw again. When he claims that the Wolf-Sinsen road project is not part of Oslopackak 3, I simply believe that it does not result in correctness. In fact, the proposal was launched in its time before Oslopackak 3 saw the light of day, but I am quite sure that when we go back to the local political treatment of Oslopackak 3 in Oslo and Akershus, Ulven–Sinsen was part of the Oslopackak 3 compromise in its time. I get it when Hoksrud says you should listen to praise political opponents. Martin Tranmæl must have said once again: the evening post writes nicely about me. What wrong have I done? So I kind of understand Hoksrud's concern. But what I said about the former travel agency, the current giant representative Peter N. Myhre, was serious and well meant. Myhre did a solid and good job to get the important thing in place and scrape the compromise that Oslopack 3 is. I am therefore somewhat excited about Myhr's vote-giving here in the Chamber afterwards, because we need to be aware that the proposal we have before us today is not a proposal which comes initially from the Ministry of Transport or from the Government. It is a proposal that comes from the Oslopack 3 Steering Group and in that steering group sits the Transport Agency of the Progress Party in Oslo, the successor of Peter N. Myhres. So I'm excited about Peter N. Myhre here afterwards following up his successor as a transport agency in Oslo and what he's asked the state and the Stortinge to do, or whether he's voting the way his parties in the Transport Committee agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3547	Then the president has the pleasure of giving the floor to the former travel agency in Oslo, Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3550	I'm going to admit that it's kind of a déjà vu feeling when, as a former travel agency in Oslo, I'm in an Oslopackack 3 debate in Stortinget and I'm dealing with former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete. That's really nice, I'd say. So to Ulven–Sinsen: It's true that Ulven–Sinsen is in Oslopackak 3 with a budget line, but it's too far exceeded. So everything that's now packing itself with extra costs for the Wolf-Sinsen is far beyond what was in the compromise between the parties and between the two states. I end up asking two questions. An initiative is now being taken to use DKK 1.1 billion of tolls for actions for which the tolls were not intended to be used during the period 2008–2028, and there is still an unanswered question. What, then, is going out of Oslopackak 3 according to the Government? I want to ask again about the 310 million. kr for which the Ulven-Sinsen project was originally intended: What is the price tag now? Or to put it another way: how huge are the exceedances of the state road project Ulven-Sinsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3559	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The following cases are the second reading of previous legal proceedings. [[Footing, see page 1380]] So those who sit in the hall can imagine that they're in the old Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3577	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3593	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3609	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3625	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3642	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3658	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3674	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3690	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3706	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3722	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3738	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3754	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3770	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3778	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1-24.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3786	During the debate, 37 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1, 6-14, 21-29 and 37, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 2-4, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 30, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 15-20, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 31-36, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–30, is included on pages 94 to 106 of the vote, while the proposals No. 31–37 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party, during the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: «It is recommended that the Government provide an overview of all official consumer-oriented labelling schemes and the financial support at all stages of these labelling schemes and return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3833	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storing on other and more time-consuming ways of financing a public broadcaster than today’s licence.’ The right has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3851	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32, 33, 35 and 36, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3886	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–17, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3916	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3941	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case concerning the establishment of a Dance Alliance according to Swedish model, at the latest in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2010, with a view to the establishment of the scheme during 2011.’» The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e3959	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 6, 7, 11–14 and 21–29, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e8039	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 to 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e8071	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e8090	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case in the context of the Revised National Budget 2010 whereby responsibility for single, minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age is transferred from the foreign authorities to the protection of children from 1 January 2011.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e8109	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e8141	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. The President refers to two corrections in what we're going to vote for: On page 109 under the hood. 865 item 79 the amount shall be 4,384 000 and not 384 000, as it stands in the cancellation. On page 116 of V, point 3, a change has been made and the point is replaced by the following: ‘The ordinary operating grant to the other node institutions shall be allocated between the grant parties by 60 per cent to the State and 40 per cent to the region, as specified. cap. 323 Musical purposes, Item 72 Knutepoint institutions, cap. 326 Language, literary and library purposes; post 72 Knute point institutions and chapters. 328 Museum and other cultural protection purposes, entry 70 National Museum Network.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e13410	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Rytman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 4, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e13603	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: Expenditure286Research Fund95Fundamental capital - Research and Innovation Fund30 000 000 0001825Reconversion of energy use and energy production95Capital deposits20 000 000 0002491Statnet SF96Capital deposits4 000 000 000 000 000Incomes5999State loans90Loans88 388 378 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e13756	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure1432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fund capital200 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e13848	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: Expenditure286Research Fund97Found for scientific equipment10 000 000 0001333Infrastructure Fund95Fundamental capital50 000 000 0001427Directorate for Nature Management90Found for Environmental Technology - Fund capital5 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural heritage fund90Fundamental capital100 000 0001833CO2management95Fond CLIMIT1 000 000 000 000 000 000Incomes5999State loan resources90Loans110 288 378 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e14047	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: Expenditure286Research Fund95Fundamental capital - Research and Innovation Fund10 000 0001825Reproduction of energy and energy production95Capital contributions10 000 0000001830Research95Research fund10 000 000 000 000 000Incomes3286Research fund96Decommissioning of regional research funds and repayment of fund capital6 000 000 0004533Completed90Decommissioning of Same people's fund80 000 000 0004540National minorities90Decommissioning of Roman people's fund88 000 0005999State loan resources90Loans 58 020 378 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e16924	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Törgeir Tåldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3-5, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included on page 24 of the setting, while No. 3 to 5 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 5, from the left:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e16964	As regards proposal No: 4, from the Left, the President will under some doubt, let the proposal come to voting, although it may have an impact on the budget for next year. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17000	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 5, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17030	There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17053	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit during 2010 a comprehensive notification on Norwegian aviation in order to ensure good, stable and long-term framework conditions for aviation in Norway. In particular, the size requests that alternative financing models for the operation of Avinor and for the purchase of air transport by the State are also addressed in the notification.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17068	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to notify the work on cost reduction measures in Avinor in the context of the Revised National Budget 2010 and to provide sufficient air traffic controllers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17096	The President makes it clear that we are now going back to voting on case No. 9, and as regards the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the front and right parts, which were not weighed over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17127	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of a separate case for the full state financing of the entire Oslopacket 3 so that the projects can be implemented within the period 2009-2027 without the use of tolls.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17153	The size then goes to voting in the case no. 12-24. All of these matters are the second time the law is handled, so it's the "Laving" we're now in – or at least you can imagine that this is the Creation. In order to save time, if the Storting does not have strong objections to it, the President will now conduct an overall examination of these matters. So we're going to vote on these things together. There are no proposals for comment on any of the legislative acts, from Act 21 to Act 33. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading, and all of them will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-15.ana.ud2005e17173	There is no record.
