ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e128	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 16 until the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e157	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes. Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties, parliamentary leaders and other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e166	A few days ago, DN.no announced that the financial crisis could be phased out. The comment came from Kristian Falnes in the SKY Funds. Now it is not unusual for portfolio managers to be optimistic, but there are signs that the financial market situation is better than a few months ago. The mark-up in money market interest rates has decreased, and Oslo Børs has increased by over 50 pst. since the first part of March of this year. Housing prices are increasing, and it's easier for households to get a loan. However, the stock exchange has fallen again in the last week. The crisis started as a financial crisis and spread to the real economy. Financial markets may now appear to be above the worst, but it will take time for the real economy to be freshly notified. It's still uncertain when the bottom is reached, and how deep it gets. Although there are some positive signs, it is far too early to vent the economic crisis. Investment in industry is declining, while the decline in goods consumption seems to have stopped. Industrial production is still decreasing. However, the fall has been somewhat lower since February, and the decline in Norwegian industry is more damp than in other European countries. At the same time, the unemployment rate continued to rise. The registered unemployment rate has shown rise since last summer. 2.6 pst. by the labour force is now available. Unemployment increases within all occupational groups, but the increase is highest in construction. Unemployment is expected to continue to rise in 2010. This is the biggest challenge we have in economic policy. In the last year, the government has led a very expansive fiscal policy. Monetary policy, too, has been very expansive. This has helped to stabilise the economy. In the 2009 original draft budget, there was an impulse of 0.7 percentage points. After dealing with the package of measures in February this year, this incentive was earmarked for 2.4 percentage points. When we adopt the revised national budget later today, the impulse will be 3.0 percentage points. This is a very strong stimulus to the economy, both historically and internationally. When looking at the path of unemployment, it is important to have a special focus on the development of long-term unemployment. The government's party wants to counteract the fact that increasing the availability of the job leads to people becoming out of work for a long time. Experience shows that it is harder to get back to work. In the context of the action package, the level of labour market measures increased by 6,000 places on average for 2009. Now the Government proposes that the level of action for jobseekers with a moderate level of assistance be increased by an average of 1 000 places. This provides the basis for an increase of about 5,000 action places up to the end of the year. In difficult times in the labour market, people are often the ones who throw down, who spend the most time getting a job. A majority in the Committee therefore argues that the instigation of new unemployed people should not lead to a reduction in the follow-up and action efforts of people who need more extensive help to get into work or social follow-up. The decline in demand, especially from abroad, has a framework for Norwegian business. There are few authorities in this country that can do with the weak developments internationally. The signal we get is that the most important thing for our business is that the credit and capital markets work. The Government and Norway Bank have taken a number of measures that contribute to this, while interest rates have fallen sharply. The recession has resulted in an increase in demand for loans from Innovation Norway. In order to enable companies to meet the necessary changes and to stimulate innovation and innovation, the lending framework for Innovation Norway will be increased. The low-risk loan frame will grow by DKK 1 billion, to DKK 3.5 billion, and the innovation loan framework will have an increase of DKK 0.5 billion, to DKK 1.4 billion. A commitment to knowledge, education and skills is always important, but perhaps especially in times of economic downturn. In crisis, the basis for new growth and development is laid. The government is therefore proposing to increase the basic rights of universities and universities by 80 million. kr and to set up 3000 new higher education places of study. In addition, it is proposed to increase the number of licences so that 800 new places of study can be created for decentralised education and 450 new places of study in different disciplines. Several study and student places are a central response to the expected increase in unemployment. Revised national budget contains a structural oil-corrected deficit in 2009 of nearly NOK 130 billion. That's $55 billion more than in 2008. The rule of action says we should use 4 pst. of the fund's capital over time. This year we use 5.7 pst. There is, however, no breach of the rule. In order to remain credible, however, it is important that we return to the 4 pst. path relatively quickly when economic times improve. I would like to underline the importance of this. Of course, it would have been much easier and more popular in the short term to use oil money freely, but such irresponsible policies would have major negative consequences. It may be useful to study what has happened in other countries that are rich in natural resources and that have followed such a line. There is one party that consistently disregards the rule of action – yes, which characterises it as irrelevant. The Progress Party in its alternative budget spends nearly 15 billion dollars more than the government party. This is an image, even if the source is empty ‘made adjustments rather than making comprehensive proposals inherent in the ordinary budgetary procedure’. What is unusual in this budget round is that the Right also spends much more oil money than the Government finds defensive, and thus approaches the Progress Party. Right-wing scheme means that 6,2 billion dollars are spent more than the government of booked numbers. Taking into account that many of the discovery proposals did not appear to be in line with defensive and realistic budgeting, the amount is even greater. The Christian People's Party is budgeting for an oil money use that increases the structural deficit by about DKK 3 billion in addition to the government proposal. The left lies on the same oil money usage as the government party. The right in its comments expresses concern for private enterprises. What will really affect export-oriented business is a strengthened dollar price at the top of lower demand from the rest of the world. This concern must be balanced against the need to stimulate domestic demand for financial policy. Although parts of the Norwegian economy are struggling and unemployment is on the way up, other sectors are experiencing labour shortages. A too strong stimulus can lead to a two-way economy, with pressure in some industries. This may result in a higher interest rate and a higher exchange rate than otherwise. It is surprising that the Right does not see – or choose to ignore – this context. Right, I want to give you $8 billion in tax bills. Of these, 5.8 billion is a temporary reduction in the employer’s fee. The total impact of the proposal is NOK 17.5 billion. The principle of periodicity on which the national accounts are based leads to an accounting of 11.7 billion in 2010. A reduction in the employer’s fee is a highly targeted measure that costs a lot. It will mean a tax relief for all businesses, including those who are profitable and who are left with surplus. It is also doubtful whether it works if the intention is to prevent an increase in unemployment. The costs are not the main problem for Norwegian companies today. It's the lack of demand that makes companies have to permit or cancel people. It is therefore not only a little accurate, it is also not very effective. The right has become more populistic — including in the use of money. It captures the leader of the Left. According to NTB he adds: ‘Right lowers the requirement for its own propriety when it chooses to move into the section of the Progress Party’.» There is probably not only an idyll on the civil side, less than three months before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e213	This is probably the last chance I have to take a line on Reidar Sandal. Of course, I can't let such an opportunity go away. I registered that the case rapporteur in his post spent a lot of time commenting on the proposals that the opposition has made in the setting. He had quite clear characteristics of those suggestions. However, I registered that he spent quite little time commenting on what the Government itself is doing very specifically in the draft revised budget – the proposal under consideration today. Because that's a little bit of the problem, as I see it. There is, of course, an opportunity for revision to take the necessary measures to combat unemployment, while the Government, almost not at all, makes use of the opportunity to do so. The Chairman of the Financial Committee does not see the need for any new measures per year. the current date beyond what will be included in the revision? Is he deeply satisfied with the state of things and what has been included in the position he is presenting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e220	I am very pleased with the work done by the Government to counteract the very unfavourable situation that our country is also facing, namely that unemployment is growing. We don't settle down. I would like to remind the representative, Mr Leirstein, that even in the revised budget, more action is being taken to counter the rise in unemployment. We are strongly committed to giving Innovation Norway better opportunities. We are significantly increasing the number of student and study places, just to counteract unemployment. We're strengthening the local economy. All of this is a new example of an offensive policy. With the many comprehensive measures already adopted and implemented, we believe that it will be useful. We are in spite of all that country in the world, when taking into account the unemployment rate, which is spending most of its time on measures to keep people at work. I'm actually proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e225	I understand that the chairman of the committee follows closely with Oslo Børs to see how the crisis is going. Right for its part is talking to the companies and visiting them, and hearing what's really the problem where we lose jobs. That is why, in the revised budget, we have proposed a reduction in the employer’s fee – the proposal that the committee’s chairman has just drawn from the pulpit. I would like to ask the committee chairman: does he maintain that this is not targeted? Does he want to say to Norwegian SMEs that this is a measure that does not help when they think so, and when there are estimates that this could have a net impact on the unemployment rate of 8 000 to 10000 jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e230	That's how I try to follow up on Oslo Børs's development. I'm also trying to listen to the views of people who are added to other people who have ownership interests in Norwegian business. Orientating in those circles I don't think right should try to monopolize. When it concerns the view of employers' fees as a response to the crisis we are in, it is my view and the government's view that there is not exactly enough action. The fee has not been targeted enough, for example: Because, as I pointed out in my post, it provides considerable help to companies that have large surpluses, which then suss, but are not accurate enough to distinguish between those who have problems, and those who do not. What is most important now is that we make the financial market work with the actions taken. We didn't get into goals there, but that's what's the main problem for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e237	It'll be almost historical, this. I guess it'll be, sir. Sandal's last line. It's not against me having it. The former Minister of Education was responsible for research and higher education in his speech. That's not weird. There has been a four-year period with great opportunities to really bet in that area. Nevertheless, the headline over these four years is in that field: Rest cut. My question is, how was it possible for a red-green government, which has had so much money at its disposal, to ask itself so that the heading over this period of higher education and research, is that it was a rest cutting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e244	I have been and am busy with education and research policy in our country. I'm not the least – and it's also the government party – because having a progressive education policy is a very targeted measure to counteract the social bias in our society. That is why education policy is important both ideologically and practically politically. I do not accept the representative Syversen, who is normally a nuanced man, saying that what is the heading of education and research policy for the last four years we have behind us is suffocated. There is an image the opposition has tried to draw. I'm not saying we've achieved enough in this area. But we've done a lot. The direction has been good. I would like to say that the Minister who is in charge of right-wing education now has our offensive at the time she has been in the department. We have bold targets. We're not going to the end. But we're in good shape. We're not going to have any slicing. We need to achieve new, bold objectives of education and research policy in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e255	Today’s treatment of the revised state budget should have been an important stage in combating the rapidly growing unemployment rate in this country. I think a lot of people believed in the government when it said in January that all the tools were needed. A package of measures came on 26 January. As we all know, it was dealt with and got unanimous support in Stortinget. But since then it has been quite quiet when we think about the action front. Most people believed that the government should use the opportunity to provide the measures requested in the revision. But then you can take it wrong. We had a debate in Odelstingen a few days ago about changes in tax law. The tax changes were, mostly, technical and zero policies. The fiscal measures we are dealing with here today are also largely technical. Unfortunately, in many areas there is also little policy. I note that the Red-Green Government has presented a revised budget which is almost chemically free of politics. Expenditure that would in any case have come to the state budget is covered under the pretext that this is a bet. At the same time, it is ignored that there are areas of society that lack resources. The government shows clear signs that it only a few months before the election has largely resigned, as I see it. This might be the government's way of saying that you want redemption – what do I know? This is the last opportunity for today's government to put forward concrete measures against the financial crisis. You choose not to use that option. But the Progress Party chooses to use this option. That is why we are promoting proposals in the revision that correspond to a package of approx. NOK 15 billion, half of which are tax reliefs and tax reliefs. The second half relates to concrete proposals to strengthen areas where this is most necessary and to measures to combat increased unemployment. While the Government is totally allergic to using fiscal instruments to help counter the financial crisis, the Progress Party wants to use the entire toolbox. The fight against growing unemployment must have priority. That should not prevent ideological skyscrapers from promoting sensible measures. The party chooses to provide employees and pensioners with a tax relief of NOK 5 billion. This will help to improve the purchasing power of citizens, and this in turn will be positive for retail, commercial and service industries, Norwegian travel and a number of other sectors. Furthermore, the Progress Party promotes proposals for a separate tax deduction for domestic refurbishment andincreased measures. This will help to provide more people with the necessary support for refurbishment. Small craft companies in particular would probably have noticed the positive effects of such a measure. We propose that the employer’s pay for seniors be cut and that the same fee be abolished for apprentices. This will help to secure jobs for these groups, which may otherwise experience the loss of a job in times of recession. Then we also use the depreciation rules to benefit business – and we are making proposals in this area. Our actions will be very positive for the small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, which have approx. 1 million workers. The proposal of the Progress Party in the revision is not limited to tax reductions. In some areas, we choose to strengthen the budget. In the current situation, it would be wise to use a little more funds for investment in areas where capacity is available, for example: in the construction industry. The Progress Party therefore proposes DKK 2.5 billion more for the development of county roads and national and tribal roads. In addition, sensible investment in the road sector will provide more efficiency for business and for citizens — and reduce the extent of damage. This will be very positive. The government's own proposals in this area as revised are no bet – transport priorities are absent. There is no reason to expect good action to be taken in the national transport plan. If you had followed the proposals of the Progress Party here today, you would immediately have started an important development on the transport side. Many people waiting for treatment in Norwegian hospitals deserve action now. Today's government has been responsible for four years. Health cows are growing. The economic challenges facing our health businesses are only exacerbating – and are in no way solved. The Advance Party is committed to ensuring that regional health businesses are adequately resourced, so that we get a strengthening of patient provision – rather than the deterioration we see today. We are disappointed with the government's failure to act in this area. We are listening to the signals that are now coming, whether continuous cuts, cuts, increased waiting times and longer waiting lists. The victims are the patients. The Progress Party's proposal is therefore based on the fact that we allocate SEK 1.6 billion more to health businesses in the revised budget. The Progress Party also believes that there is an urgent need to improve the quality and scale of care services in the country. The Progress Party will therefore propose that care for the elderly be strengthened by DKK 1 billion in the second half of the year. In order to ensure that these funds are used to improve care for the elderly within the current system, we propose that these funds be earmarked to increase staffing in the care sector. Today, we have a justice sector characterised by too little visibility of police, too low an investigative and clarification share, too long a response time, too many unoccupied police positions, and a lack of budgets for investment within the police. The result of this is that we get a public space of increasing insecurity – due to organised recriminalism, blind violence, rapes, outright illegal activity, such as drug abuse. drug trafficking, and visible maturity, such as tagging and infesting. People experience growing insecurity in everyday life when the police do not go to, as such an important social institution should. The Oslo police have a particularly demanding crime scene to deal with. As the situation is now, we see a trend that goes in the opposite direction of building a safer society and a more visible and present police force. That is why the Progress Party wants the police to be further strengthened. We are promoting concrete proposals on this in a revised way, in order to remedy the acute situation. In a situation of strong growth in unemployment and economic decline, increased investment in education needs to be sensible. Our universities and higher education institutions have the opportunity to make an expanded offer — if the financial resources are put in place. This will help to restore Norway, in view of the future. Investment in education is just an investment, and even if the Government does something in this area, it does – in our opinion – far from enough. The Progress Party promotes a concrete proposal for more money for several places of study, and we also strengthen the municipalities with earmarked funds for primary school education. Let me also make a heart attack now – I have done it during the treatment of the state budget and of revised over the last three years. Once again, we find that the government parties in the vote do not really change the Government’s proposal – it may not be surprising. But the problem is that good input from organisations and businesses, among other things. at the hearings of the Financial Committee. For the Progress Party, it is at least important to make a serious contribution, and we have done just that with our proposal revised. In conclusion, this is the last debate of this Financial Committee during this period. Despite many debates in which we have had a great deal of political disagreement in the specific issues – it will probably also show today’s debate – I would nevertheless like to thank the members of the Committee for four great years in the Committee. I would like to thank everyone for their good discussions and work, and in particular I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the chairman of the committee, who has managed the Committee's negotiations in an excellent way. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Finance, which has repeatedly had to answer very good questions from the representatives of the Progress Party. I don't know how many annual works that agree to answer our questions, but I extend a great deal of thanks to those who also contribute to that part of the democratic game and the job that is being done. I would like to bring this up with the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the vote, and those that are distributed in the Chamber, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e291	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e296	I allowed myself to take a line on the representative, Leirstein, in spite of the conclusion he had on his post. The Progress Party claims in the setting that there is a weak commitment to the revised national budget. In spite of the fact that the use of oil money is historically high, healthy DKK 9.5 billion is proposed. Mr Tybring-Gjedde spoke to the NRK on 15 May, some hours before the revised national budget was published. He claimed: ‘There is a risk of spending too much money if all the measures that have been implemented in the last six months are beginning to work at the same time. In this way, high inflation is at risk in the future and a shock in the economy». The party of progress has thus had two views on the same subject: First, the claim that the use of money was too large. After publicising the revised national budget, the debt is that the use of money is too small. It would be nice if the representative Leirstein could be involved in a clean-up. What really is the Progress Party's economic policy plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e310	Let me first say that with regard to the interview that was referred to, probably not the entire interview was used in the broadcast, and things were taken out of context. What was the point of the representative Tybring-Gjedde was that if all the banking packages – all the money – got into circulation in a relatively short time, you might get some challenges. Now the challenge is that a lot of the money that is put at the disposal is actually not being used. In the framework of the bank package 1, about 70 billion kroner out of 350 billion kroner have been used. What the Progress Party is concerned with in the situation we are currently in is that we can use some of the muscles that the state actually has to make in the revised budget some concrete proposals to combat the rapidly growing unemployment. I don't think it's just me. I think there are a lot of people who expected more measures from the government to come into the revised budget. This was the government's last opportunity to take action before the government budget for the autumn, which will only work from next year. It'll probably disappoint a lot. The Progress Party uses the economic muscles we have to make more concrete proposals, as indicated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e317	Over the last few weeks, we have seen headlines in some of the country's newspapers saying that the richest in Norway are inflating relatively large amounts of money to the Progress Party. That is quite understandable, because, for example, with the tax policy of the Progress Party. Stein Erik Hagen makes $13 million. kr. On the basis of that, it may not be so strange that both he and his friends are poking out. For these, it is almost a cost for the acquisition of income. Some of us believe that in Norwegian society there are relatively small differences. We see that all the proposals of the Progress Party, both in the revised budget, the State budget and also in the Progress Party programme, will lead to greater differences in Norwegian society. Does the representative, Leirstein, think that big differences between people are good, or is that not good?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e324	I note that the representative, Mr Bergo, claims that in a society with the policies of the Progress Party, there will be greater differences. This is an entirely undocumented claim by the representative of Bergo. That Progress Party is busy is just – among other things. through the proposals we are making, including on the tax side – to raise those who have little in the past. Today, even those with relatively small incomes pay a relatively large proportion of taxes. We also know that very many people in Norway are struggling. The Progress Party is involved in lifting these, including: through our proposals in the field of poverty reduction and proposals that will ensure that many of the country's minimum pensioners get a much better everyday life than they have today. So the Progress Party is just, through our policy, helping to make sure that those who have little today will get more. So to our tax relief: it's of course that many of those who contribute a lot will probably notice some of these tax reliefs. If we think in particular about the taxes on wealth, these tax concessions would mean that you don't take money out of the company to pay the tax, so that the money can be left in the company and secure jobs. Especially in the time we live in now, securing jobs will be incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e331	The Progress Party is based on Anders Lange's Party. I was allowed to experience Anders Lange, and it was an experience that I don't forget. That is why I remember very well the slogan: the party for a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and public expenditure. The Progress Party says little about its belief in maritime-regulating markets in economic policy. But it is a fact that such policies create many losers. However, the party says a lot about increased appropriations to help some of the many who lose, some of the many who are in a situation where they have very low incomes. This is also how I experience the debate here today and what the Progress Party is presenting. My question is related to tax relief. What has happened to Anders Lange’s old party – the party for a strong reduction in taxes and taxes? Now it's going to be turned off by the right!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e340	I just need to correct the representative Lundteg. Anders Langes Parti for a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public «intervention». That was the point. But now leave that debate. What has happened to Andre's Lange's old party? I believe that for many, many years, the Progress Party has just shown that we are the party that makes the most proposals on the tax side. The fact that the right now in the revised budget has actually made proposals for a very large number of tax reduction measures, we seem very happy. However, we have observed exactly the same thing as the rapporteur, that the Right has approached the Advance Party in this area. It is very gratifying in view of the election campaign we are going to be in – to be able to stand on the feet of a new and manageable government to replace the one who is sitting today. We are very pleased with what we have presented, but the Progress Party will, of course, go much further in its fiscal policy. The main approaches we take in fiscal policy are included in the State budget, which is presented every harvest. There we take up the discussion of the big grips in the area of tax and tax, while we have now, in revised primarily, focused on what can be entirely concrete measures to combat the rapidly growing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e349	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e352	This week I visited the family business Lerum in Sogndal in Sogn and Fjordane. It is a family business that further processes Norwegian agricultural products, fruits and berries, and they produce juice and jams. For more than four generations, over 100 years, Lerum, together with its employees, has created values, created activity and secured jobs. It means a lot to the fruit and berries producers in the district that they have a holding that further processes their agricultural products. It means a lot to the population of Sogndal and Sogn and Fjordane that they have a company of 130 employees, a company that creates values, secures jobs, and creates activity. There are many such businesses around our long-term country, companies that keep our well-being up, create activity, and secure jobs. These are companies that we as politicians should be cheering for, for which we should facilitate. But what have these businesses experienced in the last four years? Yes, they have experienced a government that has had a very passive industrial policy, but a very active tax policy. To take the family business of Lerum concretely, what did they experience when they were going to make their generation change from the third generation to the fourth? Well, then they got a huge increase in the inheritance fee, because that was what the red-green government did for 2009; the inheritance fee was increased by a generation shift in family-owned farms. Just in the phase where a company might need to make some new investments, some new investments, they turn red-green and see that here we have a tax item, here there are some that we can tax harder. What else have they experienced? Well, they have experienced a government that has increased ownership taxes for four years — or the strange wealth tax. The Lerum family – there are five family members who run the company – makes normal wages, they have ordinary income, but they have to pay NOK 350 000 in total in property taxes. This means that the family has to take dividends from the company, drain the company for capital, and make sure that the money goes to our rich state. But it does not stop there, because within four years, the family business Lerum has received a product fee to further process Norwegian agricultural products equivalent to 60 million in 2009. kr. That means NOK 440,000 per person. employment. NOK 440,000 per year. employment is an additional charge that has come during this four-year period. Why do I use this example? Well, because it's about how we facilitate jobs, how we facilitate activity, how we secure our districts. These are funds that could have remained in the company, which could have been reinvested in jobs, which could have contributed to more activity, but instead increase the tax, and the money goes into the large state fund. We in the Right are responding to these challenges in our approach. We're removing the inheritance tax, we're reducing the extraordinary wealth tax and ownership tax, we're halving the product fee for the family business Lerum, and we're reducing the employer's fee, which would mean a lot to them, and a lot to the many small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. I fear that the red-green parties are now in the process of minimizing the economic crisis that affects many of our communities. VG could tell on Sunday that 51,000 companies are on the edge of the dump — over 50,000 businesses. Bankruptcy can take 92,000 jobs this year, small businesses are hit hard, and many owners are ashamed. As one of them says, I feel like a personal defeat when I have been running the company with my employees for many years, and I have to look them in the eye and say that now we no longer have a job for you. This is what we need to address, and it is precisely to help secure jobs and to create more optimism that the Right promotes a number of proposals. I note that the red-green side today comforts me that it may only be 120 000 – instead of 130 000 – unemployed until next year. It's a poor consolation. I hope, of course, that they are right, but I fear that they are wrong. And I practice at least privately that I experience an uncertainty, I assure myself of that uncertainty in order to get a greater degree of security. The right-hand proposal in the revised national budget to make it cheaper to employ people, to reduce the cost of hiring more, is a good insurance against any bad times. This is why Right-wing calls for a reduction in the employer’s tax and also for a reduction in the special-purpose owner’s tax. I hear the representative, Mr Sandal, reject the Right’s proposal that this proposal is not accurate. No, according to Sandal, it can even hit businesses that are doing well. Then my answer is: So fine! Isn't it nice that companies that are doing well can reduce their costs by employing people, in the situation we're in now, and that they might be able to hire someone more, create some more ringing effects? Because it's the ring-fence we rely on when we're going to get Norway out of the crisis, create more optimism and secure more jobs. This is why the Right also promotes proposals for a high level of knowledge and research, and corporate training. That's what we have to do in a situation where we've had a government that has practiced the cutting-off of higher education and research, when we're going to make sure that we get out stronger, and that we also get the companies that are going to carry our welfare in the future. Yes, then we have to invest in knowledge and research, then we have to invest in the employees. That's why the right-hand side spends 200 million. kr on intra-corporate training. Because, in addition to a reduced employer’s fee, the small and medium-sized enterprises – and also the large ones – tell me that one of the most important things we can do is to make sure that we invest in employees, so that employees get more competence and will be strengthened when we are gradually out of the economic crisis. The right is also proposing a commitment to the environment. I think it is important that we in the crisis management we are now concerned with, namely the financial crisis, ensure that we secure jobs and create more optimism, but we also need to address the climate crisis. We have to see this in context. That is why, together with several of the other civil parties, we are promoting proposals that investing in new renewable energy should be more favourable. It has also been said by former government councils in the Red-Green Government that there are obviously forces within the Government that have countered a huge effort on new renewable energy. There, we want to provide the forces that are in place to invest in more renewable energy, dragon help in this revised national budget. Therefore, we propose better depreciation rules for investments in new renewable energy. We also propose that Norway delete climate quotas in 2010 instead of selling them to the EU, so that European industry can increase its emissions. Alternatively, we can use the sales revenues from climate allowances to invest in emission reduction measures in Norway. I don't want to call it double morals, but I think that at least there's something that's not the way it should be, when Norway makes a lot of money selling allowances to the EU, which means that they can increase their emissions, instead of doing something that could satisfy and delete any of these climate quotas. There we are today inviting the red-green parties in a concrete proposal, to look forward to 2010 and to a discussion on how to deal with the surplus quotas that Norway has. I have registered that I have had a little extra speaking time, as this came a little late. I thank you for that, and take up the proposals that the Right either promotes alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e388	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e394	In a number of contexts, the Right, and not least the representative Jan Tore Sanner, have emphasised in clear order that it is not appropriate to follow the Party's policy of surrender. It's interesting to see in the revision that the Right far on the road has been hooked on the High Oil Money Use of the Advance Party, at least they're in the backseat, especially when we see at the same time that a very large part of the containment is not real and does not meet the requirements for realistic budgeting. It would be interesting if the representative Jan Tore Sanner could explain the reasons for the strong increase in oil money. Could it be a signal that the Right so earnestly wants to go into the real bed of the Advance Party, and that the party has started this glide flight that also increases the distance to the Christian People's Party, but not least to the Left? Is this done because these parties are less active as government partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e401	It surprises me that the party that had as election slogans, at least a few years ago, that work for everyone is job number one, is more concerned with the political game than with solving the challenges that small and large businesses face in 2009, when many lose their jobs, and many communities face uncertainties. The right’s proposal in the revised national budget is an answer to the challenges we face. It's true that we spend something more oil money than the government, but it's to secure jobs. At the same time, there is a significant difference in the structure of the Right Party and the Advance Party. That's what I thought the representative had brought. As we reduce public spending, the Progress Party increases public spending by $8 billion – we reduce them, the Advance Party increases them. The Progress Party reduces taxes on individuals, we reduce taxes on businesses and jobs, to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e408	It's not everywhere in the revised right-hand side increases the cost. We see that they have proposed cutting operational funds to the Child Protection Centre for Liaison Minor Asylum Seekers by 17 million. kr. In the entry for special operating expenditure, knowledge development, integration and diversity, they want to remove almost the entire item and reduce it from 19 million. NOK 4 million. kr. The entry for training in Norwegian and social sciences is proposed to be cut by 25 million. kr, and we have an adjustment to the integration grant, where the Right wants to cut by 40 million. kr. The table on the right is attached in a note, which is proposed to be cut under the label ‘Restricted asylum policy’, including interpreting services and host municipality grants. There's a pattern in this, and as the previous replicator was inside, this looks like someone who's heading towards other states of the harvest. It doesn't seem like these are posts aimed at the Christian People's Party and the Left. Is this what we now see adornment of the Right-Bride, in view of possible marriage with the Advance Party of the Fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e417	I have never felt ashamed that the Right is with other bourgeois parties. Whether it is with the Advance Party, or whether it is with the Christian People's Party and the Left, I believe it is a strength. And you'll see in the setting that all four of the bourgeois parties have a lot to do with each other. The right is with the Advance Party about something, and with the Christian People's Party about something. The pattern that Lund Bergo can see is that we follow the line that we followed when we were in government from 2001 to 2005, when municipal minister Erna Solberg tightened up on asylum policy and reduced the number of asylum seekers by very many thousands. After the government change, we see that the number of asylum seekers to Norway has increased sharply. We are now tightening up something again, and it will also reduce some public expenditure, as a result of a somewhat tighter asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e422	The employer’s fee is one of the main sources of funding for the welfare society. The right is now in favour of a reduction, with an annual impact of nearly DKK 25 billion, and surpasses the Progress Party. That's an offer. It is a party with major identity problems that makes such proposals. The right is talking about inheritance and wealth taxes. They don't tell the whole truth. They're talking about a weird egg tax. No Western European right-wing countries are without taxation on savings. The most common thing is property taxes. But my question is related to juice and Lerum. The representative spoke with an experience about Lerum in Sogndal. I was there for the first time over 20 years ago, and I can agree that it is a great company. They produce juice on pure raw materials, in competition with artificial substance - yes, addictive substances. Is it so that the love of Sogndal is so hot in the Right that they want to differentiate the fee, with lower rates of juice versus noise?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e431	The answer is yes. That is what the Right proposes in this position. If the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party agree, I hope that the Central Party will support that proposal. We propose that juice produced from raw materials on fruit and berries – further processing of Norwegian agricultural products – should be half-taxed in relation to the charge on shower. I think that's right, and that's the way we should go. Lundtigen has often read to me about the value of further processing of Norwegian raw materials. I believe that the representative Lundtigen has a point. He has a good point in terms of the value of further processing of Norwegian raw materials. We want to make that right. I hope that the representative Lundtigen today will therefore vote in favour of the Right's proposal, which we are promoting together with some other parties, so that we can do something about this. It means a lot to the family business Lerum that we're going to do something about it now from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e438	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e441	The financial crisis is a consequence of right-wing policy, and we need the policies of the left-hand side to get out of the financial crisis. When we look at Norway today, we see the grotesque effects of the financial crisis, which overwhelm us as a river wave. But when we look at what the opposition is promoting by proposal, and who it is they think it's most important to do something for, it's the richest here to land. When it comes to giving tax relief to the parties on the right, they give priority to those who have the most – the owners and shareholders in Norway, not those who work. My main concern is for those who are now becoming unemployed, because I think we will see that unemployment is going to pass 100,000 and go up to either 130 000 or 140 000 unemployed – numbers that are not going to live with, and that we have to work to get down. That is what we believe we are doing with the budgetary policy we are putting up, both through the budget we proposed last year, through the package of measures and in the revised national budget. I believe that we take the right steps, both when it comes to getting people to work, and when it comes to making sure that people who get unemployed actually get the skills and stuff they need. When the rise times come back, when we turn the negative spiral that we're now in, we're going to have to make sure that people are better educated and have better skills than before. And then we take action to combat unemployment. We take effective action, such as: to bet that the municipalities get enough money, so that they don't quit the people in the time we're in now. Revised this year is in many ways a summary of the four years we have been in government. We have given priority to strengthening public services, instead of investing in tax incentives. Where the right-hand side in previous years gave tax relief and led low-interest policies for people to clean up the kitchen and buy new cars, we have thought that it is more important to build homes for people who are homeless, to rust up the railway, to invest in environmental change. In the revised version, we see that the Right and Advance Party are moving closer to our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, in terms of how they want to fight the crisis. They want to combat it through extensive tax relief. We don't believe that. In connection with the reduction in interest rates two days ago, the Bank of Norway said that the labour market measures taken by the Government are likely to have a good effect. This is a good example of the policy we are pursuing. Where the largest tax payable on the right went to shareholders, we have prioritised increasing the minimum pension, at the latest in the settlement we are presenting now, and raising the housing allowance, which will enter into force on 1 July this year. But most importantly, we've taken the biggest steps to create smaller differences in the long term, by ensuring that all children get the right to babysitting at 2,330 kroner a month. We all know what both the Right and the Left have suggested over the years in terms of increasing nursery prices. I would never have thought that I would have to give Right Education in what it is that makes companies look after people. So when you stop buying aluminium from our aluminium industry, it's not a reduction in the employer's fee that makes people out there start buying more aluminium. When tourists from Germany do not come to Norway because there are times of crisis in Germany, and the crown is strong, it is not a reduction in the employer’s fee that will lead hotel directors to hire more people to work for the hotel’s guests. The main problem is not that there are too few employees and that it is too expensive to hire people. The problem is that there are too few guests. Then the price of the crown is more important than the employer's fee. Then it's more important to make sure that the crown stays low instead of doing what the Right wants. We see the same line in front of the next choice. We see that the Right and Advance Party will give the bluff into the environment and initiate dangerous oil drilling outside of the purest, most beautiful and eternal resource we have, the fish in the sea outside of Lofoten and the Western Sea. They'll give billions of tax relief to well-appointed men instead of raising women's wages, and they'll make sure to bet on the privatization of the entire school system instead of our kids getting free kindergarten, and bet in school. For me, it is easy to choose solidarity, community and environment over one-sided egoism, and I hope that people in this country choose the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e465	There were many funny claims from the representative Holmås, but I'm going to go in one of his dear areas. In the 2005 election campaign, it was to introduce a school meal for primary school students. He has not fulfilled this. He got government, he got majority government, he could do exactly what he wanted, but he didn't choose to fulfill this election promise. It became a fruit and green system that applies to half of primary school students. The Progress Party has also revised, and many times before, a proposal to have a school meal in primary school. So my question to the representative Holmås is, what is the alternative use of this money? It's $80 million. kr. It is to transfer them to the State pension fund – abroad, which has estimated to go with NOK 430 billion, transferred for 2009 – it is now reduced in the context of revision. I believe Holmås it is more important to buy for 80 million. kr in shares and debt securities abroad than securing a school meal for primary school students? That's exactly what he chooses: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e474	So in the Soria Moria statement, we didn't get an idea that we were going to introduce a free meal in school. We run by the Soria Moria Declaration, because we think it's a good and proper policy. We're going to elections this year again on that we want to introduce a free school meal instead of spending money on investment in nuclear weapons, which is what Christian Tybring-Gjedde wants to do. We want to provide for the strengthening of bets at primary school instead of opening up commercial schools that will drain the public common school for a lot of money that could have been spent on good students, or to make sure that the school is better for all students. We want to spend money on free core time in kindergarten, on homework at school and on the maximum price in the school leisure system. We're going to make a choice on this, and we want to do that in the next big time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e482	I will not congratulate the representative Holmås on his vote in the environmental policy last night in favour of the development of Goliath and against the Left's proposal to reject the development of Goliath. I am not going to take the big debate on the reality description of the last four years. I just want to make it clear that we've had a private-economy bonanza in the cleaning up of houses, investment in cars and cabins like this country has never seen before, in the four years of red-green government. My question is private, Norwegian ownership. Yesterday, I was in a debate with the Swedish State Council, Solhjell, who was run by a former SV, Paul Chaffey, who obviously knew SV's policy too well to that Mr. Soljell liked it a little bit. He was at least very unclear in his view as to whether SV was really for private ideas, Norwegian businesses. And then I ask, can the representative Holmås, after four years of good insight into red-green economic policy, give us a guide on what has been done in the last four years to stimulate private, Norwegian ownership of the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e489	I think it's a very funny question from Lars Sponheim. If one sees what has happened in terms of strengthening and re-establishing business start-ups, if one sees what has happened in terms of employment in Norwegian enterprises, and if one sees what has happened in terms of profits in Norwegian enterprises, one will see that in the first years and up to the top of the high economic cycle we were in, it has never been better profit, better profitability, better start-up or better business start-ups in Norwegian enterprises than we have. But then came the financial crisis – threatened and pressured as just Christmas – and made sure that we got the downturn that we are now in, but a new, good red-green policy will make sure to build up under what we need. We need a transition to an environmentally friendly society, we need a more environmentally friendly business, and then we need a commitment to competence. What we do both in strengthening the kindergarten sector, in strengthening schools, in strengthening higher education and research and in increasing the number of places to study in this revised national budget are all things that will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e498	Throughout this period, the right has put forward proposals for a variety of measures in the field of poverty policy. Yes, in its alternative budgets, the Right has proposed a total of 877 million. kr more than the Government has granted. There can be no stanchion for the representative Holmås to look back on four years in government when the poverty bet has failed then to those degrees. Kristin Halvorsen's political will to end poverty is perhaps the foremost Soria Moria break over some. The foremost example was seen in the Evening Post on March 18, this year. Then Johanna Engen, a board member of the Fattighuset, said, "We're doing the job of the Government." Is it so that the Socialist Left Party has jumped from its promises? Is it the case that the Socialist Left has not been able to make an impact on the poverty campaign because the centremates have not agreed to it? In this case, why does SV not show willingness at the last reading of the budget, when they had now really had the opportunity to show that they meant anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e507	In the entire previous period, when the Right sat by the power, the differences increased. The first thing that the Right did when they came to power was to spend 1.5 billion kroner on tax havens for the richest. Right goes to the election to provide $12 billion in tax bills, of which $6 billion is going to go to the 2.5 pst. The richest in this country. I mean, that's great. The right pursues targeted redistribution policies from the people most to the richest. It's a policy that I just have to say I won't stand for at all, and that policy I intend to fight with all my heart and all my strength. During this period, we've provided a huge boost in housing support, we've made sure to increase all the smallest social security up to twice the basic amount, which is more than 140,000 kroner and becomes more to the next year. We have provided an increased investment in rental properties. There are 43,000 more rental homes. Fewer people are recipients of social assistance, and we have less differences between rich and poor in Norway. When we take the summary of the entire policy and its consequences when we get the reports in two years' time, we will see that this was a period when we fought differences. But it is clear that we will continue to fight poverty in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e514	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e517	Now for four years I have had the joy of coming after Heikki Holmås in almost all financial debates. I also had the pleasure of hearing him before he became a fiscal spokesman for SV. I would essentially say that he has demonstrated a changeability and flexibility that many in the Norwegian business community can certainly use as an example for follow-up. That's the last debate before we split up. It's also true that there may be reason for a never-ending summary. The undersigned was also asked what expectations I had of Kristin Halvorsen when it became clear that she was going to be Minister of Finance. Then I said that judgment will probably come in four years. I'm not going to make any judgment, but I want to say that there has been a period when the Minister of Finance has shown the power and authority to act. I haven't agreed with everything she's done, but I want to say that many times I've thought: the lady knows her things! So I've said that before I go over to something that looks like more criticism. There is reason to ask questions about how this government has managed the enormous wealth of capital that this period has given – more than SEK 200 billion more, but then you can subtract a little and add a little to the structural input, stabilisers, tax access, etc. However, I would like to say that we have to ask ourselves whether we have used and managed the options we have correctly. There we have to answer yes to something from the Christian People's Party, but also no to too much in our opinion. It also bears the mark of the last revised budget. We're going to give the Government credit for parts of the management of the financial crisis. The banking package has been targeted and appropriate. In our opinion, the measure package for leave came too late. When it first came, there was a lot where we could agree, and which was quite similar to what we proposed as the first party, that we should have revised the budget as early as last autumn. But there are three areas I want to point out that we should have done something more about, not least on this last occasion: Firstly, there is the fight against poverty, which also the representative Holmås was in. It is striking that the SV number person mentions the number of homeless people as a bet area, when the fact is that the number has increased. If it's bet, there's either something radical wrong with the policy itself, or it's rhetoric and not truth. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would also see it as an advantage if the opportunity were now used to bet on those who are outside the labour market. We want more areas of action, not least those that need lasting action. For us, it is completely incomprehensible that the government is sitting still and watching that 4,000 people are in line for treatment for our drug institutions, while also sitting still and watching that institutions that have room are being laid down. There should have been a joint responsibility for all of us in this room to do something about this, and not sit quietly and see that this can happen. We also want a stronger commitment to businesses and jobs. We should make a contribution to securing jobs across the country. Let's do that, for example. by halving the employer’s fee for new apprentices, postponing the deadlines for the employer’s fee, removing the amount limit on tax deductions for the recovery of deficits and increasing the tax FUNN scheme framework, as some examples. We will also do something about the major climate challenges. Why not contribute to the introduction of an environmental car premium for those purchasing an environmentally friendly car? Why not further strengthen the energy fund, so that we get more renewable energy? And why not further strengthen public transport, not least where it can be a good alternative to private car transport? All of this is in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party. I recommend that, and take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e543	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e548	The representative of the Seven started with a short summary of the four-year period, and that's in place. This document, which has been revised in the national budget, is suitable for giving some indication of the political situation and also stood on the civil side. In the past, the right has repeatedly guaranteed that they will pursue a responsible economic policy. Now the Right adds up to an oil money use that is far beyond what the Ministry of Finance believes is responsible, and also many other macro-economics. There are considerable tax reliefs in that draft budget, and it is financed by cuts in Norwegian education, integration policies and a number of measures agreed between the Christian People's Party and the government parties. Does the Christian People's Party feel that the Right is approaching the Advance Party or the Centre Parties with such an attitude in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e557	Now I am not sure that the answer the Ministry of Finance will give when it comes to increased oil money consumption is the final answer that two lines will be placed below. Who had believed when this period started, that they would have a proposal for an oil money usage of 5.7 pst. Instead, about 4 pst. It says a little bit about that there's a measure that's quite as mobile also for the sitting government. But then there is also a reason why the Right Party and the Christian Party are not the same party. We're two parties. We have different opinions on different issues, but we have also shown that we can work together for the good of the country. I am absolutely convinced that we will also be able to do so when the voters give such a signal if not for that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e564	I know that the representative Hans Olav Syversen is a decent man who fights for justice, at least against poverty. I still think it's worth mentioning that during the period we've been sitting now, we've made sure to raise the minimum benefits on minimum pensions. We've been at the head to lead them up to twice the basic amount, which is a strong increase of NOK 16 000 for the minimum pensioners. We have provided housing support for 50,000 new people – from 100,000 to 150 000. This will contribute to a significant improvement in the situation. During the previous period, the Christian People's Party was among others. to cut down on the housing support of families with children. But all the policies are local. We're both Oslo representatives, and it was taken up here that homelessness is increasing. Yes, in Oslo, the Christian People's Party is voting against increasing the number of new dwellings by more than 82 this year, even though we are making it possible for 3,000. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e574	The reason for this is also that the state incentives are not good enough, not least in a big city. You cannot cut everyone over a comb and say that municipality A with 3,000 inhabitants is equal to municipality B with over 500,000 inhabitants, who have a completely different level of expenditure in order to ensure that dwellings are built or rented, for that matter. In the case of pensions, this was a scheme where there was redistribution within Pension Norway, in cooperation with the organisations. There is nothing the Government has given of mild gifts. They've agreed on a redistribution that's gone down on someone else. You might want to include that in the picture when you first brag. I want to remind you that there was a central government that gave a thousand copies to the minimum pensioners, to quite large protests from parts of the current red-green government. As I said, I think this government has done something good, but I also allow myself to criticise those where they have come to cards, even in areas where they should have done something.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e583	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e586	The debate in the Committee on Finance and the European Parliament on economic policy this spring reminds me more and more of attempts to compete with our calves. One is doomed to lose first. Now the Right also throws itself in with a bid, and shows a bid in relation to the Advance Party in terms of taxes and charges. That's interesting. The financial crisis has called for strong instruments to be used. The last reduction in the interest rate is a sign of an economy in severe difficulties, and we have nothing more to do with reducing interest rates. These are demanding challenges, not saving, while in a commodity exporting country where Norway is dependent on having a relatively weak dollar price. This is in a situation where we see increased prices of raw materials in international markets. The most important debate in the future is targeted action in fiscal policy, not general tax relief. The government is in charge of education, the shrinking of the country through communication efforts and business conversion. The most demanding challenges are profitability in our export companies. An increased transition from commodity sales to long value chains with processing, new technology and new knowledge is needed. It is important for the Government to investigate and promote proposals for an investment aid scheme to commercialise environmentally friendly solutions. Such investment aid will provide a significant boost to the Norwegian environmental technology effort. Wood processing from newspaper to chemistry can be a good example. The centre party would point out that such a scheme would be in line with the EU Environment Directive of August 2008 which was incorporated into Norwegian law on 14 November last year. This is a crisis of confidence in the financial market. It has become a global economic crisis. Leading economic theories are being challenged and must be challenged. Iceland's situation is known, Latvia is coming. Major losses in banking come, as well as severe wage cuts and emigration of people. We're probably in the forefront of de-evaluation. The question is whether the country has production capacity when one has been involved in the free capitalist principle of a market economy without governance. The UN has set up a commission with leader Stiglitz and secretary Jan Kreg. There is a discussion at the UN General Assembly on Thursday and Friday this week. There are exciting visions in the Stiglitz Commission: four new international institutions, international central bank, new international currency, international competition supervision, economic advice in the United Nations, in the same way as the Security Council. There is an important debate on the conversion of driving rules for the international economy, from neo-classical economic theories to experience-based real economy. In Norway, this is now followed up by the Ministry of Finance's reduction in the financial crisis committee, with members with different views and analyses, in order to bring about a public change of words about causes and ways out of the crisis. This could form the basis for a debate on the future regulation of our financial sector. The financial industries, which were produced by some as the construction works themselves, have to be settled around the real economy. We have international examples of insurance legislation, where insurance companies could insure both life, property and credit risk. This led to the bankruptcy of the largest insurance company in the United States, AIG. For example, insurance legislation in the future becomes a central issue. Revised national budget from the Government puts up a commitment to the welfare of the municipal sector with a new billion, low-risk loans to Innovation Norway, nationwide innovation loan scheme with corresponding loss provisions, purchasing consortium, purchasing power, increasing the number of study places, increasing the level of action on the labour market and increasing the amount of funding for the Post Office. The so-called unprofitable postal and banking services are a concept that does not sound very well in parts of the Government. It is a system that becomes even more difficult to deal with if the third EU Postal Directive is realised, which will give the post a more expensive and poorer situation, which will lead to a district hostile development. Finally, in the revision, there is also an action package of 200 million. kr to the very happy agricultural sector. Following the examination of the Financial Committee, the Government has clarified the compensation of VAT for teams and associations from 1 January 2010 for the voluntary sector. It's very joyful. Voluntary teams and associations now have a reimbursement system in place to reimburse VAT on goods and services as the necessary means of operation, whether for corps or sports. It's a very happy case for the Government and the Center Party. It shows that it is also invested in the voluntary sector as a compliment to a strong public investment in welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e608	I have understood that the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen is the biggest representative in this room who loves customs and would certainly have liked to have even more customs duty on goods. There is no relief, even relief to developing countries: to introduce customs freedom for all developing countries, so that these poor countries can trade with Norway and thus get out of poverty and their financial crisis. But okay, I can understand Lundtigen's intention, to protect and protect his farmers from competition. But I'll leave that debate. I wonder why it's customs on fruit and green, such as. olives, maize, peach, grapefruit, apricots, artichokes, sweet peppers and mandarins, i.e. healthy foods that cannot be said to be grown on a large scale by farmers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e615	In order to ensure economic development in a country, there is a need for a wide range of instruments. One of the instruments is customs duties on imports of goods. That's the way it is all over the world, it's been through history. By having customs duties, we can also make rules so that customs duties on products from individual countries are lower than customs duties on goods from other countries. Thus, we have the opportunity to stimulate imports from countries that we want to give an extra boost. That's the great thing about our customs system in terms of the products that are referred to here. So we can give tolls for imports from the countries in which we want to raise the trend, by allowing them to have a greater share in the Norwegian strong market. It's a system that we should keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e622	I want to return to the line Per Olaf Lundtigen took on me half an hour ago, namely taking Lundtigen's generous lectures on long value chains down to what it's all about, what we can do to facilitate, for example. further processing of Norwegian agricultural products, fruit and berries into juice and jam. We are promoting a concrete proposal in our approach today. That is proposal No. 89, which means a halving of the product charge in the case of further processing of fruit and berries into juice. This is a proposal that could amount to 30 million. kr for the family business of Lerum in Sogndal, which could help to strengthen their jobs, contribute to more value creation in the district and also strengthen the fruit and berries producers in the area. My question is about Lundtägen's talks, and also the reply to me instead, which means that the Central Party will vote in favour of Right-wing proposal No. 89 on halving the product charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e629	I am very pleased that the Right fiscal spokesman in particular is now involved in the processing of raw materials. I sincerely appreciate that. Furthermore, the Centre Party is also very pleased with the proposal of the Right on additional incentives for the processing of Norwegian berry and fruit resources. I can also say that that position has broad support in the financial fraction of the government parties. The problem is that we haven't yet found the system that makes it possible to practice it. If right with the government parties can contribute to that, I think it can be a happy ending, not least for Lerum, who is a great future business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e634	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e637	I understand that the Lerum factory in Sogndal is at the heart of this debate. I could also add a little bit of history to that. While I was Minister of Industry, they lost the “very healthy” product Pepsi-Cola, and one had to make a considerable effort to get them a necessary substitute from the American Pepsi-Cola owners, and that helped them to get better at pressing Norwegian raspberries. That's good. But back to the revised national budget. That is the way it is, and it bears the brunt of the debate – that it is not the very revised budget that contains so much policy that it is the basis for the big debate. It's probably more in summing up the entire period and the economic policy and the way we're going to go. Today and the last days have a great deal of summary in terms of the ratio of government to magnification. Many people talk about a growth that has significantly less influence than what may have been the case in earlier periods. Maybe one thing is that the opposition, which is in a minority, has little influence on matters, but it's worth noting that even the government parties in the Storing have very limited influence, at least on what's happening in the Storing. So it's not 50 cents that have been moved into the revised budget that we are dealing with today. The very symbol of this, of which we have received many reminders, not least this spring, is Rolf Terje Klungland, a senior member of the Finance Committee, who received 3 million in 2008. kr to night and on the Sørlandsbanen. It has not yet been completed, and when the representative today takes his last train ride home from Stortinget, he must be sleepless and think about this situation. The left calls for a course to focus more on the future and to meet the major, important challenges, research, education and incentives for more climate-friendly behaviour. Not least, there is a lack of left-wing measures targeted at the part of Norwegian business that is struggling and that we are totally dependent on succeeding in the future. In all these areas, the Government and government parties provide very little at best and have done so throughout the reigning period. This is particularly the case in areas that are important for the Left, innovation and research, the environment and climate-friendly transformation of society, and targeted actions to maximise their ability to develop and take care of themselves. If the Government and government parties had used equal commitment and equal political energy to develop the new business that we depend on in the future, which they have used in internal relations with regard to the state ownership of Aker, Hydro and Statoil, we would have been much better equipped to meet the international financial crisis and the future. It is good that the Government allocates more money to several places of study. However, as long as the UH sector is still under-funded and struggling with the Government's sustained cutbacks, the impact on the sector is cut in expenditure and thus fewer places of study and poorer education and less research. The left therefore proposes to grant 700 million. kr more for higher education and research. This is aimed at strengthening basic funding, but also at increasing nutrient research and climate and energy research. The left is disappointed that the government does not use this opportunity to meet the climate agreement and focus on the climate-friendly business we will live on in the future. In particular, the left is disappointed that measures to strengthen investment in renewable energy remain open-ended. The result will continue to be the queue of good projects that are not realised. The government has promised a national strategy for marine energy production. When this does not come into the revised national budget, it is a signal that the whole strategy is at best locked down in a drawer in the department. The promised offensive CO2 cleaning at Kårstø is now pushed far into the blue. Cleaning from day one is one of this government's biggest lifting break. Although the government has had a space of action that is more than DKK 100 billion at its disposal in its last year than the Bondevik II government had in 2005, the government cannot cope with what, according to Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, could be done with a pen stroke: eradicating poverty. At best, the government has managed to grant some hundred extra patches to the poorest. Even in the health sector, the government is struggling. It is well and good that the Government today, on the last day of Stortinget, presents an interaction reform. There is a reform that is currently asking more questions than we get answers. I would particularly like to point out the situation in the care of the elderly, which, according to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, was supposed to shine off before an extra crown was given in the tax bill. The left notes that there are increasing numbers of people who experience problems in the care of the elderly and that queues for hospitalization are growing, while more than 500 million have been used. kr e.g. on tax incentives for trade union quota in the same period. The left will go the opposite way and in this setting proposes a large-scale health care investment of more than 600 million. kr in additions within the same economic framework as that of the Government. In the left's alternative proposal for the 2009 revised national budget, we prioritise spending about DKK 1 billion more on school, education and research, about SEK 650 million. spend more on health, family and poverty reduction, about 120 million. In addition to a number of targeted tax proposals, these measures are aimed at the Norwegian business community. We also propose a tax shift from red to green taxation of around 700 million. SEK with a net tax relief of 390 million. kr, increased costs of around DKK 1.9 billion and deposits of around DKK 2.3 billion – all within the same economic framework as proposed by the Government and government parties. The government's use of money is already high in record terms and seems highly expansive on the economy. 130 billion oil crowns are used in 2009, an increase of 58 billion dollars in one year. The government’s proposal for a revised national budget alone represents an increase of DKK 9.5 billion. This is worrying in the long term. It is my view and that of the Left that, in this situation, there is no need for further expansion on the expenditure side of the State budget, but perhaps the opposite, especially given that we received a further reduction in interest rates a few days ago, which also contributes to increased demand in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, it is with some wonder that I see that none of the other opposition parties have embarked on a similar responsible and long-term line. Policy is ultimately about priorities within a responsible framework. It is not particularly honorable to lose more of the future pension obligations in order to finance small and large – and to a large extent – well-meaning additions. Finally. It is also tempting to reflect on the challenges facing the forthcoming upturn at the end of a collapse and a collapse session. They're not going to be insignificant. In fiscal policy, it becomes an important task as the financial crisis, hopefully, arises and the conditions normalise, to re-apply fiscal policy with the rule of action. Now we have hardly enough eye contact. It will be a demanding task in the next few years to get back on track. The political space that has been in this four-year period, I think we're going to have problems looking back in the next few periods in the future – at least for those of us who want the rule of action to function well and in place. Equally full: Under such a demanding, more demanding economic framework than I think this government has had in its four years, the coming big business must address major challenges in our time. It's bringing us faster to the low-emission society than we've done in recent years. It is addressing the challenges of strong ageing in this society, coming after 2020. It's the next few years we have to make arrangements to deal with this violent dynamic that comes into the Norwegian economy, and which I think is far too few in politics taking on what's going to mean. I think the most important thing we could do to face this in this situation today would have been to meet these major challenges with a formidable and concentrated effort on research and knowledge, and new knowledge. Either it is to improve the public sector, solve the major welfare challenges, bring us to the low-carbon society, or it is to bring forward the new green sustainable enterprises, there is only one answer in terms of instruments, and there is effort on research, acquire knowledge, distribute new knowledge through education. The most powerful way to face the financial crisis in this situation would have been to put the most aside, use the space for action and make a strong effort in this sector – not least at a time when many young people are not getting work, not getting into their first job, not getting the place they wanted, and applying to our various colleges and universities. It would have been a long-term and good strategy to meet the major challenges and bring an inheritance to new growth, which has quite demanding tasks ahead of it. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions made by the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e676	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e682	I think the end of the speech by the representative Sponheim was a good round of this debate. I have to admit that I had expected Sponheim to rise to the slightly larger heights of the lifting fracture rhetoric and everything else that tends to come from that edge, but he transfers far on the road the characteristics to his old partner Right, where he has referred both in the media earlier this week to Right's new oil money usage and shift in immigration and integration policy as populist. And he in many ways reinforces the criticism of his old partner right here today, where he mentions the use of oil money and the increase of it that is not particularly honourable. I think that is a very good and striking description, but it must be allowed to challenge the representative Sponheim on what this says about the situation on the civil side three months before the elections. You agree on something, you agree on rhetoric, lifting breaks and other victories to the red-green government, but besides that, I find it difficult to see how the four parties will be able to gather after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e689	The left and I have stressed what we think is right to do in this situation, and I have argued for that. I'm trained in a tradition that makes me have the greatest respect for the line the Ministry of Finance puts at the bottom of the calculation. I have always been of the opinion that fiscal policy should be re-priorities within that line. Now we're in a situation in this house where we're increasingly running different distances, but we're going to be measured at the same time. That has made the policy unwieldy and unlucky. It is based on the fact that it is a majority that takes responsibility for the proper line, and then you try to pursue policies beyond that. That's not what I and the left are going to do, and we've shown that in this setting. I hope and believe that today's red-green majority will disappear in this election. Then the country gets a minority government. There will be a minority government that will have to rely on a continuous majority in this room, and should that be the case, I believe, however, that there will be an important majority of too much important policies, including. in the field of industrial policy and education policy, there will be a different majority and a better policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e694	If the environment was really the most important thing for Lars Sponheim, he should seek closer cooperation with SV instead of just turning his hand off us and saying that it is not appropriate to cooperate with SV in environmental policy. We have got significantly more money on the railway than the left ever got into government. We've done more of the important things in collective action than what Left did, and we've had more and better changes in the car park than the left alone did in government. These were just a few examples of things we've got. So we should cooperate more, not just get informed that it's a bad idea. The point is that there is no environment that is the most important for the left. If you look at the redistribution that's going on here, the Left is more concerned with making sure that the money is used to distribute from families with children by increasing the nursery price, and spending the money on the richest by removing some of the changes we made in the property tax. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e701	Firstly, in the knowledge and research sector, especially in the research sector, the Left has just made an increase of 700 million. kr. In addition, there is a re-priority across that chain. We have always said and thought that we should have full babysitting before pressing the price down as quickly as the government has done – and that is of course the correct thing. Then I want to say a little about environmental policy and what SV does. I have been honest in this room and said that much has been done is good, not least with regard to the Ministry of the Environment's budget, which has had significant growth during this period. But I just want to remind you that we've had one of ours now that it doesn't directly shine green. I think of Kårstø cleaning that is exposed, I think of the Goliath decision tonight, and that the government Heikki Holmås' party is part of, was not willing to integrate into the bio-diversity law of sea areas where really the important biodiversity that we have to care for is present. So there's not much of SV's environmental policy in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e708	I would like to commend the representative Sponheim for taking up his concern about the sleeping car here today. I assume that it means that he will follow this up in the next growing-up period. The second thing I want to commend him for is that he's standing straight in terms of economic policy. But now he's quite alone on the bourgeois side. I do not quite understand: if he believes that the economic policy framework currently being pursued is correct, and that it is important to keep a low price in relation to the export industry, how does he picture the government he is talking about? It could have been a bit exciting to hear what the alternative representative Sponheim is looking for in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e713	I thank you for what had to be good words in the line. Let me do a summary for my own and the left. During this period, there has been a point, not least in economic policy, in providing an independent centre line. We want to find out that the Left is an independent party in the centre of Norwegian politics, and I also think that this setting shows. The sobering approach of the left in the tradition of Søren Jaabæk is also evident in this position, and we are going to be hard on it in the future. I hope and believe that when the election is over, today's majority will be fallen. What minority rule we get out of it is exactly what the voters are going to put together when they're going to vote for the harvest. The voters are going to put together the Storting, but the country is going to have a minority government that must in any case have a majority in this room. I hope and believe that the Left will come into a situation where at least we will be able to have significant influence over a minority government. We'd prefer to participate in such a minority government together with the Right and the Center Party, and it'll give us a more offensive policy than we've had in these four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e720	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e723	First, a little comment about the power of the Storting. I see that the representative Lars Sponheim measures the power of Stortinget in relation to how much changes are made to the Government's proposal after they have been submitted. Then I have to say that the governments of which the representative Sponheim has been a member have worked quite differently than our government does. We are going through a lot of rounds with our big groups, which are our parliamentary basis and our majority, before we present matters in Stortinget. There is a considerable amount of effort on the part of a very large number of big business representatives when it comes to making proposals, and we finally agree on what we are presenting. Then there may be a need for some adjustments after a case has come up, but the power of the big groups in the red-green government is significant in terms of what we promote of politics. That's what it has to be, because it's the Storting that decides. But the representative Sponheim obviously has a different experience, where the government has been sitting in its own vacuum and then presenting matters to the Stortinget. I do not think that is a commendable method. There is no doubt that this has been a very demanding year. We're in a very demanding time. We have a very serious crisis in the world economy, the most serious since World War II. After the revised national budget was presented, there may be some signs that it may look a little brighter in some areas, but the situation now does not suggest that we can relax on the vigilance we need in relation to the challenges we face. Financial markets work a little better. There are slightly lower risks in the money and credit markets. In several countries, expectations, both in households and business, are more optimistic than they were a short time ago. There is a slight decrease in industrial output than previously in several countries. We see that commodity prices and stock prices are rising somewhat. This might be some indication that it could go a little better than what we thought when we presented the revised national budget. But we're not in a situation where we can say that this crisis is over. On the contrary, it's going to be demanding to keep up with this situation in the future. The uncertainty is e.g. related to the loss situation of very many European banks. It is linked to the large deficits that many countries now have. They have to deal with a significant government debt. How do you get out of that kind of crisis? Norway is less affected by the effects of the financial crisis than very many other countries. We're not going further than to Sweden to see that they have a business structure that makes them talk about an increase in unemployment at completely different levels than Norway experiences. The same is true of Germany and England, close partners and trading partners for Norway. The government has presented many proposals. We have received broad support for them in Stortinget. The biggest and first challenge we had was to make financial markets work better. The exchange scheme to which Stortinget unanimously agreed has contributed to the fact that we have been able to borrow out NOK 144 billion. There's more to it than that. We see that the money markets have fallen and that they are working better. Then we have established two large funds, to which the Stortinget has also joined unanimously: the State Bond Fund and the State Financial Fund. They are now working as intended. We have had a significant decline in interest rates that has stimulated the economy of households by over NOK 30 billion. It works fast in Norway. Because few have fixed-rate loans, interest rate changes quickly strike. We now see that the decline in private consumption is being flattened, and that the housing market is taking a little notice. We have put forward a very expansive financial policy. It has never been black so early and so extensive when it comes to combating unemployment. Internationally, only the United Kingdom is above us in stimulating the economy, but they also have completely different problems. What is now the challenge is to make sure that we have a clear and clear policy on how to get out of the challenges we face. Here, there are clear differences between the opposition and the position. For us, fair distribution is at the bottom. That means that we're focusing on well-being, but we're also focusing on those who have the greatest ability to contribute to the community to do so. The right-hand side will distribute $12 billion in tax bills, half of it to the 2.5 pst. richest in Norway. We will continue to ensure – and that is what we have done over this period – that fiscal policies are maintained at the 2004 level. It's made us have $12 billion more every year for well-being. Then we have to get out of the financial crisis with a better solution to the climate crisis. That's why the package of measures we come with is, of the greenest we've seen. We must continue this course, for there are also many new opportunities for Norwegian business in view of future production.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e750	Revised national budget for 2009 is, of course, the last possibility for the Government to get its policy through. The right shall be correct. The government has passed through a section. The Minister for Finance has, among other things: have been passed through to increase the oil fund’s share capital from 40 p.m. to 60 pst. Already in its first budget, the Minister of Finance ensures considerable tax relief for those with the highest income. But for most people, there are still challenges. The health cows are increasing. Crime is increasing. Road construction and road maintenance have increased. There are many challenges in municipalities, including: in the care of the elderly. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the situation today, or is it something that the Minister of Finance admits that one has not been implemented and that one would like to see different?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e756	SVs are connected so that we are impatient people. This means that even though we have done a good day's work the day before, we get up early and get on with new tasks. In cooperation with two other government parties, we've done an incredible amount over the course of these four years. It's because we've made important and important political choices. We stopped fiscal policy. We stopped the privatizer. We stopped the dismantling of workers' rights. We have strengthened the public sector. We've spent the big money on the big problems. We have increased the minimum pension by NOK 16 000 per year. We have changed the environment policy so that Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim is appointed by the United Nations to the Champion of the Earth. It's not bad! But we'd like to move on. That's why I fight so hard that right-wing-dominated politics won't be able to win in the next four years. We are facing major challenges for the Community which can only be solved by red-green Community policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e761	The Minister of Finance – or I might rather say the head of SV in this context – is right on one point, namely that it is a clear course. It was clearly believed that the Right and Kristin Clamet had done so much in higher education and research in the previous magnification period that it was time for a break. The policy has been reformed with a passive industrial policy and a highly active high tax policy. It's a course where you're more busy sharing than creating. It is not without reason that the Minister of Finance, when she is going to ram everything the Government has done, does not say a word about what has been done for small and medium-sized enterprises, what has been done for all those who are now fighting to save jobs. No, we'll hear the mantra that we have to wait and see. Wait and see! The central statistical agency and the Bank of Norway suggest an unemployment rate of between 120 000 and 130 000 next year. Is the inaction of the Government simply linked to the fact that the measure that, after the use of the interest weapon, will now be able to function, is tax-free, and that it is not appropriate, because it has been promised to increase the taxes in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e772	This is a critique that doesn't hit at all. We've been mowing all the way through this financial crisis. We have had a slogan that we should take the right action at the right time. What has primarily shaped the measures we have taken is that we wanted to ensure that business was financed, so that there was no need to stop and create bigger problems in the real economy than it could have been. And it's worked. Our close contact with small and medium-sized enterprises shows that it works. Then there are very many of the public measures we have taken, as the Statistical Centre says, creating most jobs quickly, that is, everything we are now doing in the municipal sector, in the transport sector, in the energy savings sector, through missions to private enterprises. I totally disagree with Right-wing Distribution Policy. In times of crisis – otherwise, but especially in times of crisis – it is absolutely essential that we distribute fairly. When the Right wants to distribute $12 billion in property taxes, half of them to the $2⁄2 pst. the richest in Norway, it is a very poor investment in order to get out of the crisis together. It is a fundamental value of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e781	It is remarkable, in my view, that the head of the SV and the finance minister do not mention the fight against poverty with one word in their main contribution to the revised budget – not least because we are talking here about a party leader who before this period stated that poverty could be eliminated with a pen stroke; what it stood on was political will. Poverty and drug abuse are two sides of the same issue in very many cases. The truth is that there are now more in treatment queues than ever — over 4,000. At the same time, one non-profit institution is closed after another because the State, with its privatisation drive, has ensured that it can no longer operate. How does this harmonize with the government's policy and Kristin Halvorsen's statements before the last elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e788	I talked about fair distribution in my post, and I'd like to do it more. I have never said that poverty can be eradicated by a pen stroke, but I have said that poverty cannot be combated by right-wing policies, and I have given the Christian People's Party, among others. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. What's our recipe in the fight against poverty, it's to distribute fairly in the sum of society, but also to make sure that the groups that work the most are in the community. These are direct financial measures, such as: increasing the minimum pension, but there are also efforts to combat drugs, and that is to ensure that we have good and cheap kindergartens, free schooling, etc. I share Mr Syversen's concern about the Ru area. I went to the Salvation Army on Wednesday and talked to them about how they're working on just these issues. These are treatment sites, but they are not least those based on treatment – that they should have a home, that they should have the opportunity to get a job, that they should have the opportunity to re-establish themselves in society without having to be drawn to the environments of which they were part and which are their social and safe environment. So here we have to bet on a wide range.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e795	Now I have to admit I was upset! The Minister of Finance is not telling the truth! I sat right in front of her during the party leader debate where she said that poverty could be eradicated with a pen stroke, with a wailing voice and lifted her finger against Prime Minister Bondevik. It wasn't a usual political promise to set high goals, jobs, etc., it was to add a moral list to itself. This revised national budget was the last opportunity for the Minister of Finance to put it in the pen. She didn't do it. Why don't you be ashamed, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e802	I think the representative of Sponheim is far overshooting the target. I can't recognize the quote about pen strokes, but I stand firmly by having attacked the right side and Prime Minister Bondevik many times, because they have increased the differences and distributed tax credits to those who have the most from before, taken from the community. And I'd like to do that again. We have taken great steps to combat poverty. Our efforts in the field of social security are significantly greater than what has happened in recent years. Our efforts in terms of housing support are significantly greater. Overall, in many areas, differences in Norway have been reduced. It's a job we need as a headline forever. We're never going to get completely into the goal and say that now it's perfect, but combining it with right-wing policy – I'm noticing that the representative Sponheim also, on behalf of the Left, promotes the kind of distribution policy – provides a society that's worse than the sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e809	It was interesting to observe the socialist Halvorsen expressing joy at the rise in exchange rates. Then you can hope to use the gain from the top tools of the capitalists to combat poverty in the next growing period. But I'll ask you something else. The schools Wang Toppidrett and Norway’s Toppidrettsgymnas have been approved by the Education Directorate by 1 380 Toppidretselevplassen, and each toppidretselen receives a special funding through a toppidretsfördert of 17 700 kroner. The 2009 State budget only grants 810 students, despite the fact that the costs of 811 and 812 are equal to the 810. So this has not been corrected by the Government in the revised national budget. In total, the state saves $5 million. kr, i.e. That Wang Toppidrett has to borrow 5 million. kr or cut the offer. My question to the Council of State is, What advice does she have to Wang? Should they raise a private loan of five million. kr, or should they cut off the offer of top sports at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e818	I think I have to be allowed to investigate this matter a little bit more closely, because I'm not fully up-to-date on what's the situation at Wang Toppidrett, how many places of study they have or not, or what's their budgetary situation. So I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to bring it up with the Ministry of Knowledge, so that the representative Tybring-Gjedde gets a correct answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e826	The revised national budget we are examining has been presented under the strongest economic downturn in the world since the 1930s. No economic crises are the same, history never repeats, but it is, however, as the Government, I and the Minister of Finance have pointed out on several occasions, some frightening occasions in economic crises when we look back at history. It's that they like to start with some kind of financial bubble, very high housing prices, very high stock prices, and then they crack the bubbles, and then there's a banking crisis and a financial crisis. Then it's going to be a crisis in the real economy, in production and exports, and then the third phase, which is that unemployment is growing. Just the understanding that crises are moving in stages, the financial crisis that is becoming an economic crisis, which is becoming a labour market crisis, is an important background step for also starting to discuss, assess and comment on the question of whether or not the crisis is about to cross. Because if you look at the first phase, the acute financial crisis, there's clear evidence that we're on our way to recovery, that we're on our way out of the first phase. Banks are in better condition now than they were a few months ago in Norway and other countries, share prices are rising in Norway and in other countries, although the picture is slightly nuanced and slightly varied. But with regard to the other two phases, the economic downturn, the fall in industrial output, the fall in exports in many countries, is still very serious, but the most serious thing is that unemployment continues to grow, and is growing sharply in the countries around us. And for the government, the crisis is not over even if the stock prices rise again. The crisis is only over when we see again that unemployment is falling and employment is growing. There is a long way to go in the international economy, and there is a long way to go in the Norwegian economy, because we need to be prepared for continued growth in unemployment in Norway and in our neighbouring countries. So that's the second question: what kind of lesson can we draw from the crisis? Because it's also a debate about what we've learned. First of all, you have to do big studies, we've reduced our own sample, and we're going to have a lot of discussion in the years to come, about what we learned from this crisis. But I believe that at least one main message is very solid and has been clear all along, and that is that this crisis, the economic setback the world is experiencing, confirms that the market economy cannot be left to itself. It defeats the belief in the unregulated market forces and the unregulated market economy. The belief that the market deals best with itself, is best left to itself, has been very strong over several decades, and it has been expressed in many different ways, partly through active policies to eliminate regulation, not least in the financial market, on the one hand by placing too little emphasis on supervision, control of markets, among other things. has been expressed at home on a proposal to cut credit supervision. Perhaps it is also important to bear in mind that many countries have only regulated parts of the economy, parts of financial markets, but let other parts grow unregulated, and much of the crisis has been linked to the unregulated parts of financial markets. But in addition, and perhaps much more important, belief in the unregulated market has been expressed in two other ways. One has been a massive attack on the public sector. The desire to privatise, the desire to build up the public sector has been strong throughout the 1980s and 1990s and well into our own century. For example, when we started the discussion on retirement in Norway, with the retirement commission's suspension, many people argued that the community should only take responsibility for a basic pension, minimum pension, for all, and supplementary pensions should be something you yourself took responsibility for, by placing money in different ways in the stock market. It would have been a dramatic deterioration and would have made us far more vulnerable to financial crises than when the community and public sector take responsibility for something as big and fundamental as, for example, pensions. Another expression of the belief that the market is best self-regulatory is that it has been argued from the right, national and international point of view, against the idea that the state should regulate and stabilise the economy through cyclical policies. It was said that Keynes was dead, that countercyclical policy belonged to the past, and it was Milton Friedman and his disciples who argued that classical economic policy was old-fashioned. There has been a lot of support in our own country as well. If there is something this crisis has proven, both in Norway and in other countries, it is that the state, the community, has a great responsibility and has to do the job of stabilising the economy and using the budgets to smooth out fluctuations in the economy. The market cannot be left to itself. The answer to this is that the market cannot be left to itself, that we need regulation, we need better regulation, and we need more regulation – nationally and internationally. We need a strong public sector that does not leave pensions, health and education to the market, and we need short-term policies, that the state takes on its task of balancing fluctuations in the economy. But that does not mean, of course, that all regulations are good regulation. This does not mean that any expansion of the public sector is correct. And that doesn't mean, of course, that bad cyclical policies are good. That's good and accurate cyclical policy we need. When I say that, it's because the answer to the unregulated market forces is not old-fashioned plan economy, and not market. The answer is a regulated market economy. The answer is an interaction between the public and private sectors. The answer is that we need both private enterprises and a strong public sector. We need a mixed economy. We need to develop what is the characteristic of the Norwegian model. That's the answer. The lesson of the crisis is that the unregulated market is not self-sufficient; the state must play an important role. There's an interaction between market and capital, between market and government we need. The most serious expression of the economic downturn is the increase in unemployment. In the euro area and in the United States, unemployment is already over 9pst, and there is a sharp increase in almost all of our neighbouring countries. Norway is also affected by the international economic recession. Half of what we do here in the country, we sell to other countries. When things go bad abroad, Norway is also affected. Industrial production in Norway has fallen by 10 pst. and is an expression that, not least, the export industry is now hit by the international economic recession. Unemployment is growing. The registered unemployment rate was 68 300 at the end of May. That's 2.6 pst. There's an increase in relation to last year, but it's pretty much lower than in almost all of our neighboring countries. We have to be prepared for unemployment to continue to grow. However, the Bank of Norway provided figures two days ago where it reduced the growth of unemployment, and among other things. referred to the measures now being implemented both by the Bank and by the authorities, which reduce the impact of international setbacks on the Norwegian economy. One of the main measures is the interest rate policy. And then I would like to stress that the fact that interest rates are now being reduced is a result of political decisions, that's because the Stortinget, the politicians, has given the Bank of Norway the job of helping to secure employment by setting the interest needed to keep a stable and good development in the Norwegian economy. When interest rates are now down by well over 4 pst., it is precisely the result of a wild economic policy, where interest rates can be used to secure employment and stabilise the economy. Then there are the measures packages for the banking sector and the financial industry mentioned by the Minister of Finance, which are large and extensive and which contribute to the better functioning of the banking system than it did a few months ago. And then the third, the big steps where you spend money to keep the wheels going: appropriations for refurbishment of schools and maintenance of roads – which give us a double win. We get better schools and better roads, but we also get more people to work. It's countercyclical policy. It's working. It provides jobs. But it's only possible to carry it because we've kept it in good times. Then we can spend a lot of money in bad times. Not only can one be in favour of counter-cyclical policies in times of recession, one must also understand the importance of this in times of upturn, where one has to hold back on the use of money. We also see signs that we get to a conversion into Norwegian economy. New jobs are being created. We can get more green development. So the crisis also gives opportunities, and now it's about using them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e858	We got a rehearsal and a review of what the Government has done in relation to the financial crisis. I heard very little about what they think remains, but I will come back to that. That the Prime Minister did not say anything about – since we are now in the last debate the Stortinget has before summer vacation and election campaign – all the promises made by the red-green government were made before the 2005 elections, and a small status report in relation to that. That is why I want to ask the Prime Minister a little about all the broken election promises, because there were many promises in the election campaign in 2005. I think there are many people in our country who are very disappointed that these promises have not been fulfilled. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a very simple question: I would like to know which of the broken election vows the Prime Minister has the worst conscience that he has not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e865	I have a good conscience. And I have a good conscience because this government has done a very good job in implementing and following up the goals we set in the Soria Moria Declaration, which was the program we presented to the Stortinget in our government statement. In not many days, we are going to present a comprehensive political account where we go through the point by the point of what we presented in our government statement. I'm glad we got that done. And I'm glad that the opposition is also spending a lot of time reading this thoroughly and seeing how extensive that result list is. Because there you'll see that we've really done something in the heavy and important areas. We promised to spend the big money, not on tax bills, but on school, on care and health. And it's spent billions of dollars just in these areas. We promised 10,000 new annual works of care and care, so we've fulfilled it. This does not mean that all problems in the care of the elderly are solved, but it means that there are 10,000 more people working with care and care today. It's an important contribution. We promised to do something in relation to upgrading the road network here in the country, and we have submitted record-breaking appropriations on roads and railways. Just two examples of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e872	When this government joined, the Newspaper wrote that it came to the table. Never had a government had greater opportunities to implement its policy, because the previous government had cleared up the Norwegian economy and provided competitiveness. Three years in a row, Norwegian competitiveness had improved. Every year during this government, competitiveness has deteriorated. When the period of decline that always comes after an upturn comes to Norway, Norwegian companies are less equipped to cope, because their competitiveness is lower because of the government’s policy. Many business leaders are now talking about the problems associated with the government not following the original intention of the rule of action, that the Workers' Party has failed what they promised business when they introduced the rule of action, namely that the money should be used for competitiveness for Norwegian business. My question to the Prime Minister is: is he going to change his strategy and use oil money in the future to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e877	We're spending our money on increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. When we invest massively in education, when we increase research budgets significantly more than the previous government did, it's just to invest in things that provide profitable, good businesses for the future in Norway. When we invest the multi-timer in the way and track in relation to what Right got when they put in government, it is to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. But it is also true that when we contribute to a well-organised working life, when we contribute to social protection, it is also a contribution to increasing the competitiveness of businesses. For a society of fair distribution, a society of security, a society of many kindergartens, is also a contribution to increasing the competitiveness of society and businesses. After all, the best goal of success is the creation of value. So we've increased the value creation, we've increased employment until we got the strongest economic impact the world has experienced since the 1930s. Since then, unemployment has increased, that's quite right. However, unemployment in Norway is still lower today, in the middle of the strongest economic downturn, than it was when we took over after the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e886	There are a couple of hours left of this booming period, and the government has had four years to present an interaction reform that was completed when our government left the government offices. So they're going to do it pretty much, because the big-time president's going to let the club go. The size has no chance of dealing with it. That's not exactly respect for the Storting. But I want to raise another question. This government seems to suffer from some sort of collective denial of what they have said. On 6 May, the Prime Minister stood on the pulpit here in Stortinget and said that he had never said that it would shine from the care of the elderly. TV 2 helped refresh your memory. Today we have heard that the Minister of Finance cannot remember that she has said that eradicating all poverty in Norway was on political will. What I would like to know is whether the Prime Minister can now, contrary to what he could do on 6 May, assure the Christian People's Party and the Stortinget that they intend to fulfill the agreement on new rights and a statutory guarantee of dignity for the elderly in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e895	Firstly, we are going to present the interaction reform. It's just an example that this government has done a lot, but we still have a lot to do, so that's why we're going to make choices. If we had done the whole job, we could really just pack up. We're going to elections and we're going to win the elections in September because we're going to do more. That is why we are presenting the interaction reform that shows what we intend to do in the next period of health. What the opposition intends to do is very unclear. When it comes to looking after the care of the elderly, I would like to repeat it, but everyone who sees the TV 2 entry knows what I said, and understands what I said. I said I'm not going to give tax relief until it shines with the care of the elderly. And I haven't given tax credits, I'm not going to give tax credits. I'm going to go in for more fair tax. But lowering the overall level of taxes and charges is not going to happen, because I just think it's more important that we spend that money on care for the elderly, on school, on welfare, than on new tens of billions in lower taxes. And then I clarify that there's nothing to prevent me from creating a fairer tax system. But the overall tax and tax system, I think, should not be put down in any permanent way when we are facing the situation we are facing now. – Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e904	No, it wasn't. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e911	Let me first warn the Prime Minister against drawing the good Keynes too far out on the political left. He was a social liberal and a member of a liberal center party, and would probably dislike being used by the left side for far out political. My question to the Prime Minister goes a little bit on the economic outlook ahead. We see here a significant difference in this revised budget from the perspective of the problems of automatic recovery to the rule of action. The government itself says that just using oil revenues now in 2009 and reducing contributions from the Fund in the years to come, combined with social security expenditure and expenditure on age-related health expenditure, will result in budget policies having very limited scope for action. I don't want to ask the Prime Minister to say like the Sun King, after me the flood comes, but it's going to be a demanding task to take back the budget where it should be – responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e918	First of all, I believe that there are many wise social liberals, and in particular, they are wise when they cooperate with social democracy and the left. That is what Keynesian policy has been about: there is a good balance between the market and the state. Social democracy has at least always used Keynes, and it's the right-hand side, not the liberal left, that has criticized Keynes. Keynes is coming back strong, and that's good. As far as budgetary policy is concerned, it is right that it is going to be demanding, not least – as the representative Sponheim was in it – because we are growing in the number of older people, and it is really coming now. That's why it's very good that we've got a pension reform going to give us at least more room for action than what we would otherwise have had. This is an important reason why we have to succeed in the Nav reform, which is about getting more of those who are working age to be in work. And there's a reason why we're going to put forward an interaction reform that's just about organizing a health care system where we're going to put the effort in the past, where we're going to prevent more from reducing the growth of health expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e925	As you know, during this period there is a statutory right to kindergarten for all those who want it. Proposal No. 28 in today's debate is about asking the Government to put forward a proposal that gives the help-pressed lawmakers the right to meet their basic needs, regardless of where they live in the country. The Red-Green parties are not in favour of this proposal, but the Progress Party is with the Christian People's Party. This would give all the elderly who are anxious about old age, a statutory right to have a hospitalized place when the professionals believe that they meet the criteria. Today there is a significant ratio of elderly care services, because there are no statutory rights. When you have legal rights for the younger ones, why is the government so opposed to giving the older and other needy a legal right to necessary help, regardless of where they live in the country? Why shouldn't the elderly be treated in the same way as the younger ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e935	First, I would like to thank Carl Ivar Hagen for many good debates in Stortinget. I guess this is the last row change we'll get in the staging room. It'll be a haven. So I would like to thank Hagen for the question, because then I can also answer the question from Høybrätten that I did not get to answer. It's really about the same thing, the work on the rights of the elderly, the offer to the elderly. There is a law today. We believe that the law is too weak and too unclear. This is why the Government is working on a new law to strengthen and clarify the rights of the elderly to care. It's going to be a different kind of law than what we have for kindergartens, because in the case of kindergartens, we can easily say that everyone should have the right to a kindergarten. When it comes to what older people should be entitled to, it will vary greatly, depending on their needs. But we're going to present suggestions on how to strengthen the rights of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e944	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e947	At the beginning of the debate today, the Chairman of the Financial Committee went through the budgetary procedure in depth. But on the last day of the big period, it's natural for me to look a little back on the four years that have gone by, reflecting around the political picture in the future. The government and government parties have ruled on the basis of the government statement submitted after the election, and today there is a basis for saying that we have done the job. The vast majority of the targets we set in the Soria Moria statement have been met, and the accounts will be presented in a short time. We have given priority to well-being over great tax relief. We have once again guaranteed the rights of workers, we have pursued an economic policy that has created increased employment, and we have developed a forward-looking climate policy. In the last year of the ageing period, there has been no such thing as a challenge at the beginning of the period. The financial crisis that has developed into a global economic crisis has also taken place in the Norwegian economy. Important interventions have been taken to make the financial industry work, and significant action packages have been promoted to stimulate activity in the Norwegian economy. The government has shown both the power of action and the willingness to use the instruments available to the authorities, and this has resulted. Although unemployment has increased and will probably continue to rise, we see that the social problems resulting from the economic downturn are significantly less in Norway than in the countries around us. Good economic governance in good times has allowed us to take action as the economic crisis has also affected us. The Norwegian model of society with a high level of professional activity and good public welfare systems has demonstrated its strength both in time rises and in times of decline. Government parties will continue to build on such a model. The forthcoming major elections will be about what societal development our country will be governed after the next four years. Then the voters have to know what alternatives they're facing. At the beginning of the period, I challenged the representative, Siv Jensen, as leader of the largest opposition party, as to what role the Progress Party would play in the Stortinget. She answered the following: ‘We have an ambition that this government will not sit any longer than until 2009. [[...]] This implies building alliances on the non-socialist side in order to provide the basis for a possible non-socialist government. The Contracting Party has taken the necessary measures to do so.’» Now let's write 2009. It is interesting to see what kind of clarifications are available on the civil side on the last day of the Grand Duchy's meeting in the period. It must be said that the leader of the Progress Party has lost little more. But something has become clearer this spring. The Christian People's Party and the Left have made it crystal clear that government cooperation with the Advance Party is out-of-date. Right clinging in the longest hope of broad bourgeois gathering, but has now declared itself willing to cooperate in government with the Progress Party alone. Thus, there is one alternative to a still red-green majority government with Jens Stoltenberg as Prime Minister, and it is a Progress Party-Right Government. With a progress party twice the size of the Right, we have to assume that in such a government is Siv Jensen Prime Minister. Today's attitude tells us something about what will be the policy of such a government. For one thing, these two parties have in common: almost whatever the question in society is, the answer is their tax relief. The party’s tax advisor has suggested $50 billion in annual cuts. The right has been more careful with numerical fixing, but they cut the property tax and inheritance tax, and thus they weaken the country's income by nearly 14 billion kroner. It will give great gifts to the richest, while reducing the community's ability to provide good welfare in school, health and care. Government parties still want welfare over tax relief, as we have also prioritised throughout the period. We've spent the big money on the big problems. The municipalities have got a boost, it's built thousands of new kindergartens, and we've strengthened the care of the elderly. For the first time, a government has followed up its efforts in the national transport plan. But we'll do more in the same direction. There is still a need to strengthen care for the elderly and the school, and not least the country needs stable and steady economic governance that can secure jobs for a demanding period of time. A Progress Party – Higher Government with Siv Jensen as Prime Minister, as we know them, will give priority to major tax reliefs, thus weakening the basis for better well-being. Such a development will combat the Workers' Party. In my last post from this pulpit, I will end by thanking my co-representatives for a good collegial cooperation over many years, for good debates and a pleasant tone, political disagreement despite. The last is a quality I hope will also characterize the coming big thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e998	The red-green government has set many kinds of records. One of the records I guess will go into history is the number of immigrants who have come to this country. Over the course of four years, we have had 100,000 new non-Western immigrants to Norway. It represents the total population of Tønsberg, Sandefjord and Moss, or approx. 400 people every week this government has been in power. The consequence of this is maybe the strongest in Oslo, where we get the emergence of parallel societies. We have fundamental values such as freedom of expression, equality, pluralism and the individual freedom put under pressure, among other things. by some representatives of these groups. Is the representative of Solberg on the last day of this period satisfied with the efforts of the red-green government in immigration policy, and does she recommend a possible new red-green government to pursue the same immigration policy over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1007	There has always been a considerable distance between the views of the Workers' Party on immigration – and in particular integration policy – and the lines of the Progress Party. Nor am I going to share today the description now given by Tybring-Gjedde, on how immigrants affect our society. However, what should be known in the United Kingdom, including all representatives of the Progress Party, is that the current government has put forward a number of measures to regulate our immigration, and we have a very strict immigration policy. In addition, the Government has also put forward an active policy for better integration into the Norwegian community for those who actually come here and stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1012	The desperate most fundamental well-being is having a job — not being anxious that you can't pay your bills next month, and being sure that you can plan for the future. Therefore, tax relief is an important measure, when tax relief is used to secure jobs for people and ensure that fewer districts leave jobs – which means that families have to move and children have to change schools. If, in a crisis situation, the Workers' Party had realized that thinking new about instruments to prevent the fundamental welfare of individuals from being rocked would have been an advantage. I hear the rhetoric about tax relief versus welfare again, but we see what has happened under this government. Taxes have increased and health cows have increased. When the Workers' Party intends to enter into an election campaign and boast of what has been achieved on the welfare side, they will also boast that their health policy means that 65,000 more people are now in health queues than it was at the beginning of this period – 65,000 more with pain every day and poorer quality of life because the Workers' Party is allergic to private solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1019	There were many things here in 1 minute. I'll start with the treasure. I just want to make it clear first that the government has kept its promise to maintain the overall level of taxation. We are absolutely aware of the tightening up we have adopted, for those who have the highest incomes, and we acknowledge that we have also used that tightening up to create relief at the bottom by increasing the minimum deduction and thus also giving tax relief to them with the lowest incomes. This is a fiscal policy that we absolutely stand by. And then I think it's all right to say that their tax relief is going to secure jobs for the people. The importance of the tax relief proposed by the Right, including in the current position of revision, is considerable tax relief to the absolute wealthiest in this country — the absolute richest. Over half of the 13 billion proposed cut will go straight into the pocket of the 2.5 pst. The richest in this country. It's a tax policy that we distance ourselves from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1026	It's an honor to correct the last line to the representative of Solberg. We got a solid chair in this hall at the same time, in 1993, and it's a break-up day. But I would also like to congratulate and wish you the best of luck in the new job that County of Nordland. My question is about the local government sector, and the important job the representative will have in supervising the local government sector. Today, the interaction reform that we are familiar with comes. I think it's going to be very important in the future. I think it should have the consequence that we get fewer, larger, stronger and more robust municipalities – just to succeed in this interaction. I do not want to ask for or decide on the means to do so, but I want to ask the representative if she hopes – and perhaps believes – that in the next few years, her role as a county can be to contribute to larger and stronger municipalities in the most municipal state we have, Nordland, just to enable us to succeed in the interaction reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1033	I will admit that it is very tempting, but I will refrain from providing program statements for a job that I will join on 1 November. Today, I am still a representative of big business – although it is fast passing by now. Then it is quite clear that the interaction reform that was presented today in the area of health is facing challenges from the municipality of Norway, and we can only succeed with it through very good cooperation between the municipalities. Very many municipalities are small, and it is absolutely necessary that they establish close cooperation in order to do the job that Kommune-Norway will contribute to a better health care system, where primary health services should play an even greater role and take greater responsibility for people’s health. So interaction and cooperation in Kommune-Norway is going to be absolutely crucial in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1041	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1044	This is the last debate in this process during this four-year period. We have four years behind us with a majority government that has done just as it pleases. That is, of course, the privilege of a majority government. What I may think is some of the main problem after looking back at these four years, is the claims that the Storting has thus been made a sand piercing organ. I noticed the Prime Minister's comments on the press yesterday after we finished the debate on the motion of censure, and I think it is worth reflecting a little on it. I believe that helped to reinforce the impression that the Storting really doesn't matter. I think it is problematic that the Prime Minister so elegantly skips the constitutional rules, and the fact that the Storting takes care of its role and control tasks through the handling of these kinds of issues. You don't have to minimize that. I understand that it's easy to do it when you have the majority and the bay and both ends, but that situation can change quickly. What we know best in Norwegian political history is a situation with a minority government that must act much more humiliatingly towards Stortinget than the Prime Minister is currently doing. The plural government, as mentioned, has had all the possibilities, but has scoured away many of them. I challenged the Prime Minister in the change of line earlier today on what breach of promise he has the worst conscience for, and I got no answer. I think it might be a little special to approach the unsolved tasks so arrogantly, because the Prime Minister promised before the 2005 elections that this would be due to the care of the elderly – perhaps in the context of a lack of tax relief. But the government has done the same. There have been large tax reliefs, including: in connection with the union quota. It's not from the prime minister. However, the major unsolved problems in the care of the elderly have not been solved. Then you have tried to correct yourself a little while along the way, because now it is no longer called giving 10,000 new hands to the care of the elderly. It has now been corrected to read: in the care sector. But the truth is, in any case, that 4 500 new annual works have been created in the care of the elderly. It is far from the promise that was given, and the situation is serious. Poverty was to be abolished. Well, the differences have increased under this government. Health cows were to be dissolved, corridor patients removed, waiting times reduced, even reducing the proportion of health care. Nothing of this has happened. proportional units have risen. Much of the discussion between today's position and previous government has been about who spends the most money solving unresolved problems. But the government never takes into account the fact that the answer to some of these tasks lies in system changes, system changes for which there is an alarming need, especially if we are to solve health problems, care for the elderly and the school. Granting the individual major rights legally, forcing the municipalities to carry out the tasks that many municipalities are not doing today, is one of the biggest ambitions of the Progress Party ahead of the next enlargement period. It involves putting in place a system shift that primarily helps to solve the tasks that politicians have put in place to monopolise. So we have total control over many of these problems. In the same way, it is these tasks that come first on the agenda of each big elections, because you have failed, because you have not solved the problems. It should be a great cross of thought for those who doubt old systems and are not willing to change them. It is important to focus on combating unemployment, but I do not see the new measures of the Government. The only thing I hear the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister say is that unemployment is going to increase. But they have a budget that is chemically purified for actions targeting all the small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, owned by individuals, who employ 1 million workers, and who are clinging to the hope of surviving through the difficult times. They have proposed a number of measures against the Government and the Stortinget. All measures are clearly rejected by the Government, mainly because the vast majority of them are about providing tax reductions. I can promise that the Progress Party will do everything in our power over the coming weeks and in the election campaign to get a new government capable of renewing Norway over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1064	The representative Jensen started his post by criticising the Government and government parties to do what they wanted. It's probably a little early today to try to write history over the four-year period that has gone by, but I'm still pretty sure the story will tell you that there were two absolutely crucial, big issues like this big thing being treated, where the Storting went into broad political conciliation. It is the pension agreement and the climate agreement. The government parties invited an overall increase in negotiations and to enter into discussions on these issues. One party chose to do what they wanted. It was the Progress Party. They are therefore outside of these two most critical issues that we have dealt with in Stortinget. Now the representative Jensen is ready to become prime minister, we understand, and then a question is important to ask: is it that the Progress Party in government would respect the broad political settlements in these two areas, as the other parties in the Stortinget have concluded during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1071	Let me refresh the representative Solberg's memory. As far as the climate agreement is concerned, I sent a letter to the representative of Solberg inviting him to talks and negotiations on the climate issue after Prime Minister Stoltenberg's speech to the National Labour Party meeting. What happened was that there was an initiative for climate negotiations that the Progress Party was never invited to. So we did not have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations, nor did we have the opportunity to be part of the agreement. That's the truth. It is also the case that, through several proposals in the UK, the Progress Party has proposed measures which we believe would be good and sensible environmental measures, but which have been voted down by the government parties for some mysterious reason. In the case of pensions, the Progress Party fundamentally disagrees with the cut-off operation underpinning the pension reform. We don't think there would have been a need to deprive future pensioners of so much of their income base. That is why we disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1080	Right-wing policy has created the financial crisis. The background for this was too much privatisation and too much liberalisation. So you could imagine that the right-wing parties here in Norway had a special responsibility to come up with proposals to clean up what their policies have created. But the Progress Party's work programme does not say anything about the financial crisis or the reasons for it. On the contrary, the Progress Party continues to face extensive privatisation and deregulation, which were the main causes of the financial crisis. It is stated in the Progress Party programme that the Progress Party will liberalise the economy in order to create greater growth and more well-being and secure businesses' spaces of action without political interference – banks and the financial sector is not excluded. They will free trade in securities through the liberalisation of a number of restrictions, including licensing, licensing and licensing provisions. Then I have to ask: is it more liberalisation and privatisation that is the response of the Progress Party to the financial crisis? Haven't you learned anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1085	The representative Holmås began by saying that there was right-wing policy that had created the financial crisis. At least it's not progress party politics, because we've never ruled. We really want to do that. And we are – like the current government – committed to having a good external framework as the basis for regulating an otherwise well-functioning market economy. I have also not seen this government – despite some eager socialist statements – make any attempt to destroy functioning market mechanisms, simply because there is no better alternative. I am proud of every word in the Advance Party program, and I intend to do what is in my power – and the rest of the Advance Party – to get it done over the next four years. Only then will we have a good basis for creating new values and new jobs, giving people back security in everyday life and making sure that the individual gets more raw over his or her own life than being driven from cradle to grave by governance politicians – for whom Holmås is a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1092	The party of progress has gone on its own during this period. In many areas, they have signed up – and believe that they will be able to implement their policies alone, clearly during the next major period. They do it by promising more money to everyone. In all areas, they will spend money – and probably believe that they will thus attract voters. But in one area, the Progress Party says everything's going to go away. It is in the field of agriculture – there they are quite clear. Then we see that the food crisis is increasing internationally. Over the last year, there have been 250 million more people who don't get their daily bread. My question is: doesn't the representative Siv Jensen mean that every country has the right to, but also the duty to produce as much food as they can for its own people?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1099	First, to the claim of singleness. The Progress Party is in opposition, and our job is to promote the policy of the Advance Party – neither more nor less. But at the same time, we have made it very clear that we would like to sit down with other parties to try to negotiate a broad platform, which involves compromises. Then to the agricultural policy. I think I'll send the challenge back. The centre party has had its hand on the steering wheel of Norwegian agricultural policy for many, many years. They have shown no willingness to make changes better for Norwegian food producers. The result of this is that there will be fewer use and fewer farmers. The Norwegian food production under the leadership of the Centre Party is not so fantastic. And then the question is, when is the Central Party willing to go in and look at a deregulation of all the provisions, laws, regulations, prohibitions and prohibitions associated with this industry? Let us release the farmers, so that they too can become independent business leaders, and so that they can have the opportunity to produce under different conditions than they have today!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1108	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1111	I want to go back to a line change earlier, with the other representative Solberg, who couldn't understand that tax issues had something to do with jobs. Then I think it is time for the representative Solberg to go home and talk to the small businesses in his own home country. There is nothing stronger and more obvious when I'm visiting Norwegian companies than the frustration of small and medium-sized enterprises that you don't understand that the money they pay in taxes on wealth is the company's equity – what makes them research and develop, which makes them robust in business, and also allows them to take out some money and invest them in a new good idea in their community. We are in a situation where one of the country's largest privately owned fishing companies, in the north, has experienced that almost 85 pst. of the money they earn, over several years has had to go to pay the owners’ taxes – profit taxes and property taxes. This drains the enterprise for capital and makes it more difficult in this situation. In Ulsteinvik, there are two companies that are side by side, Ulstein and Rolls-Royce. One enterprise has non-resident owners. They do not pay taxes on wealth. The other company pays taxes on wealth to Norway. This means that every hour of work is more expensive in one company than the other, because you have to collect money from the company to pay the property tax. In Nordfjordeid, a hotel is under development – because it has a strategy to grow bigger and contribute to a good and great travel life product in District Norway. But the owners there think that they simply have to sell out parts of ownership and enter into a chain, because when the new wealth tax rules come into force, the tax burden will be so great that those who own – who have only taken normal wages out of the company – will no longer be able to cope with it. Thus, ownership is not anchored locally. We hear from entrepreneurs around the country that they feel that the capital for which they have to expand disappears. Taxes on wealth are taxes on employment. There is a tax on operating capital in enterprises and contributes to the decline in Norwegian employment. 350,000 people own in enterprises in Norway, but it is the million jobs that are in these enterprises, which each year must be involved in paying the tax imposed on the enterprises. When the Government increases the tax on wealth and rejects our proposal for a short-term reduction in the employer’s tax, it helps to push more small and medium-sized enterprises closer — and some over the fall. It contributes to more people becoming unemployed and to a deterioration in their basic welfare in Norway. That's why what I'm saying is that Kristin Halvorsen is also the face of greed in today's political debate in Norway. She is the one that stimulates short-term financial positions rather than long-term ownership. She is the one who withdraws money from the companies and forces the dividends up – at a time when we should have made sure that the money was in the company and raised it through this crisis. This is about leaving open eyes to use the entire toolbox, leaving behind ensuring many people against future unemployment and leaving to ensure many communities against the dolling of corner stone businesses. Norway needs a strategy for the future – I think we should have discussed it more. How should Norway, as a country, ensure long-term well-being? Norway has the highest wages and salaries. I think that's good. It's part of the fundamental well-being. But we also have the highest capital tax compared to many of our partners, and we have the highest transport costs. That's why I think maybe some of the most important thing in the years to come is what I call the $500 billion question. When Norway is so incredibly well served by nature that we now have extraordinary oil revenues, and when we are going to draw more money into the Norwegian economy through the rule of action, all the parties should be able to answer what we are going to actually spend that money on. Maybe we could come back to what we agreed in 2001, that we should use them to raise the growth capacity of mainland Norway, so that we get more legs to stand on, and so that we get more secure jobs in the years to come. That is why we have clearly stated that we should focus more on transport in the years that come – significantly more on transport – and on new methods of working. We need to lower taxes on Norwegian enterprises to secure jobs, and we need to invest significantly more in research, development, knowledge and competences. Because when we have the highest wages, we also have to have the smartest working methods, the smartest people, we have to use the best resources to raise the most important capital, the human capital, in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1138	The debate we now have with the Right on taxes is recognizable. The disagreement on fiscal policy between the Labour Party and the Right has been present in the political change of words as long as I have participated. I want to draw up another area where the Right has also been recognizable throughout all the years I have met Right in budgetary work in the Stortinget. It has been responsible for the use of money. A lot of people have locked up their eyes a little in connection with the settings we are dealing with today. It is, as far as I can recall, the first time we experience that the Right is running an expansive line in terms of money use – which they have always warned against before. They've always urged caution. There has been disagreement on the application of the budgetary framework, but the right has always led to a very steady line of caution with regard to the use of money. They have always seen the dangers of losing control of the responsible use of money in budgetary and financial policies. Therefore, there is reason to ask: what has happened that has made the Right to estrate into this revised budget, in a way that we have not seen before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1147	What has happened is that there has been a significantly different economic situation. And I'm not going to sit with my eyes open and see that more and more people lose their jobs, when we can help more people keep their jobs through good tax incentives. An analysis by the Statistical Centre suggests that our proposals in connection with the employer’s fee would secure 5,000 jobs in Norway. I think the Workers' Party should be for it. I think the Workers' Party should be concerned with the basic welfare – which means that parents don't have to tell their children that they have lost their jobs and have to move, because there may not be a job in their neighborhood anymore, but in Oslo, so they have to go somewhere else, and they have to make new friends. It's a fundamental well-being. I think we should afford it. It's not going to matter anything to the long-term balance sheet or to the finances if we spend between 5 and 6 billion kroner more in today's economic situation. On the contrary, it will mean an incredible amount for those who are unemployed, and for the companies, who may get through this crisis by securing jobs and developing instead of dying, because the Workers' Party is allergic to tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1156	In the Right Programme, we can read that they will significantly reduce the state ownership of Norwegian business. When the Bondevik II government presented its ownership message in 2002, the Right was open to industrial solutions for State power where the State would no longer be the sole owner. When the Storting treated the red-green ownership message, the Right was more careful with the use of words, and the privatisation of hydropower was no longer mentioned. We've seen from investigations later that it's about 1 pst. by the Norwegian people who want Norwegian hydropower resources to be sold abroad. In this regard, I have the following questions to the Right: Does the Right downgrading of the theme mean that the party has turned around the question of the privatisation of Norwegian hydropower? And can we count on the Right to join the team that will fight to quote and sell out Norwegian hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1163	I think the most interesting thing about hydropower is how today's government is going to fulfill its promise of better power prices to power-intensive industries. It was the biggest ballot in the last round. I think one strategy could have been that Norwegian industrial companies owned the hydropower themselves, instead of the state and the public now taking ownership of much of the hydropower. Then one had the secure connection between industry and the other. Then we have a pragmatic relationship with the extent of state ownership. We have said that in the case of nuclear companies, we must ensure that we have control of headquarters, research departments, presence and important infrastructure. State power is currently an exciting company, but it's doing an incredible amount of activity in other countries. Then the question is, is it a main task for the Norwegian state in the future to own a lot of wind power in England, or to operate with power expansion and construction of wiring networks elsewhere in Europe? I believe that State power should have a large state ownership in the future, but how large it should be must depend on what serves the company and Norwegian jobs best.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1170	Hill-Marta Solberg said in her question to Erna Solberg that in a way she did not quite recognize the Right, which she has learned in her many years on the Stortinget to be a responsible, value-conservative party. I have to say that it strikes me one of the same things. Now I haven't been on the Stortinget for as long as Hill-Marta Solberg, but the Right has changed the pace. It seems like the Right is competing with the Advance Party to overwhelm each other in a lot of areas. The employer’s fee has become a mantra for the representative Erna Solberg. It has to be lowered – it has to be the solution. Where will the Right cut in the future not to be stamped as the irresponsible party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1177	The right has spent less money than the government when the Norwegian economy has needed it. We meant, for example, Last year, it was important to ensure that interest rates in Norway were not too high. That's why we spent less money on our alternative budget last year. We did that the year before, to hold it back. Now we believe that the economic situation is completely different, and that there is room for spending more money on some short-term measures – and lowering the employer’s fee is a wish no. 1 from all small and medium-sized enterprises in the commercial and service industries, considering what can contribute to job security in Norway. We have added that as a one-year period – 2.5 pst. lower in one year, to ensure that we do not lose jobs that are long-term. We believe that this is actually value conservative, we believe it is sound, we believe it is the way we are going to spend our oil money – and there is a big difference between us and the Progress Party. We spend our money on targeted measures to cut costs for business. The Progress Party spends more money on, among other things, to increase public expenditure, which we do not do in our alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1182	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1185	In my last post from this pulpit, I want to look back on the eight years that I've been allowed to work in this house. What strikes me first is that I've become much less nacional in these eight years. I think that's because this place and these great people have a lot of different opinions that make an impression. I've learned a lot of all the parties, which has made some of the positions I had when I came here eight years ago, have been sanded, moderated and developed. It's a health sign, I think, in a democracy that you can have debates that make you get richer, and you get a little less maritime safe. I think it's good for the country, too, for a big-time representative to be. On the other hand, I have become safer on something. There are three pillars that to me are the most important in the development of Norwegian society. It is the column ‘political governance’, it is the column ‘natural resources belong to the community’, and it is the column ‘common goods’. I've become even more certain that it's true that you're going in the direction of these columns. And I believe that today's government over these four years has made the pillars higher, wider and more solid. The political governance thing has got a new spring, especially in the context of the financial crisis. The politicians were a little low in course for a period; we politicians didn't have to care so much. But politics is a subject, politics is about seeing the whole, and it's important that you have competent people who are looking for politics and are involved in developing society. I am very pleased that ‘political governance’ has become a much more positively charged word here at home than it was a few years ago. We need political governance, because that's what gives a whole social development. In terms of natural resources – and I've had a lot of posts in this room – which is the second pillar, different parts and sizes have been very different since the Union resolution in 1905 and until today have been very good at saying that the natural resources belong to the community. Either hydropower or oil and gas or other things have been directly owned or taxed in such a way as to transform natural resources into well-being. This small, strange country all the way up towards the North Pole has become the world's best country to live in. It's because we've taken political governance and transformed natural resources into well-being. Then I get to the third column, which might be the most important one. That's what we have in common. We are particularly well aware of this now when it is a financial crisis. Sick if I'm not sure how many individuals notice the financial crisis, it's at least safe to know that I'm going to hospital if I get sick – without it having any significance whether it's a financial crisis or not – that I can go to the same school, that I can go to the same kindergarten, that I can get the same offer at the hospital. I can even go to the library and get cultural offers, because we've built a community where we have common resources that everyone can use – an incredibly important quality of Norwegian society that I'm proud of for many years, and which is the great strength through this government as well. I see that I got a little extra speaking time, President, for the clock started a little late, so I allow myself to spend another minute. One of the challenges we face, which this Community fund will also address, is the increasing unemployment rate. Increasing unemployment I think is one of the areas in the next few years where we're going to put ourselves in the harness to do the best possible craft. I think it's impossible to avoid increasing unemployment, but how are we going to meet the unemployed? Well, we have to meet the unemployed with activity. We need to ensure that the unemployed are put into action as soon as possible, because it is best for the unemployed – that you feel that you are worth something, that you are used to something – that is the best thing for the unemployed’s family, that is the best thing for the children who see that Mom or Dad are doing well and in action, and that is the best thing for the Ministry of Finance in the long term because it is the cheapest way to put the cancers early. Finally, the best thing for Norwegian society is that we make sure that the free labour force is used to acquire knowledge. It's a challenge where the government, along with the Storting, has to make a good effort in the years to come. Then there will be periods when unemployment will decrease, but now it's important to focus on those who become unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1207	I registered that the representative Ryan took a look back both in the last eight years and in the last four years and concluded that he has become both safer and safer. That's good. What I feel is that I would also have an overview of, a review and an assessment of, is what the voters have got out of the last four years of government SV. I understand that Ryan doesn't want to be so very specific about it, it's probably an easy way to get out of a difficult question, but at least I want to challenge Ryan's representative by asking, "What's he most satisfied with when it comes to government participation in these four years?" And what's he least happy with? So, a review of what he thinks is good, and what he doesn't think is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1215	I think that was a good question. We are very pleased to have been in government. We ended on Wednesday night, and I gave a speech to the group. And I have to say that we have achieved far more in government than I could dream of when we started almost four years ago. And what are we so happy about? Well, as I said in my post, the bet on the common good and that we have taken back some political governance. Of the individual things about the common good, I have to mention the kindergartens. Kinderhagen has always been an important issue for SV, and that we now have full babysitting at an acceptable price, is perhaps what we are most satisfied with – but also that we stopped the privatisation of the secondary school. It's not that much I'm dissatisfied with. I think we have achieved so much that I am not satisfied with it. I think we've actually handled most of the things in either a very good way, or an acceptable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1226	I would first like to congratulate the representative, Ryan, on a new job. He said in his post that he had achieved far more in government than he had dreamed of. I don't think there were very many people who dreamed that universities and colleges would experience a record cut in their transfers when SV got government power. Both from the promises that were given, and from what was stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, it's a pretty strong contrast. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in his speech that they are increasing the appropriations for higher education massively. Then it's funny that at universities and colleges we see big cuts in places of study, there's employee redundancy, there's no research, and the quality of the study is getting worse. A letter has also been sent from all the country's seven university rectors, who believe that the research report, which has recently been debated in the Stortinget, is ominous for research, simply because it is not invested enough. In addition, we know from the Statistical Center that education loses under this government, so that an ever smaller part of the pot goes to education and research. My question to Ryan's representative is: how has the appropriations for universities and higher education increased massively during this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1235	I have great respect for Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide's knowledge of education – it also applies to those to whom she refers at the colleges, which I also visit. I am aware that more resources have been sought in both universities and universities, both for study places and for research. I think we have been unfairly criticised for the one year there was a small break in the increase in appropriations. We've had that repeated and repeated. I think it's a myth, what has been said that we haven't invested in research and education in this period. We've done that, both in terms of primary school and not least universities and colleges. On the research side, too, research efforts under this government have increased compared to the past. I think you're trying to create a myth here -- it's not real.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1240	The representative Ryan reflects on three pillars: political governance, community and natural resources. He looks eight years back, but I want to look back at the night's votes. Last night, SV voted for Goliath, an extension they are opposed to, tonight SV voted against sending clear signals to the Government that StatoilHydro should withdraw from the oil sand project in Canada, tonight SV voted for an opening process in relation to oil exploration along the Jan Mayen coast – a matter that SV is opposed to. I guess this has to be the World Cup in double communication. One breaks in relation to political governance, which was one of the pillars that the representative talked about, and one breaks in relation to his natural resource column. What is it really like to be an environmental hostage in a petroleum plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1249	Like SV, the Christian People's Party has tried to sit in government with other parties. This means that when you sit in such a government, there are always discussions about coming up with solutions that can unite – in this case – three political parties. We've managed to come up with solutions almost every time we've disagreed on things in today's government. Twice it's been taken this one's, who probably Holten Hemdal knows. Otherwise, we've managed to stick together and find solutions that are acceptable to us. This does not mean that every decision made by the Government is ideal for SV’s population. It is also not always ideal for the Workers' Party and the Central Party's large-scale groups. Every decision that is made is not the ideal that we want, but it is acceptable within the framework where we think we can provide support for the Government. In this case, and in the examples it was referred to, we see that there were acceptable solutions we had come up with, but we will still, in the next government – in the government in which we will sit from October 2009 – fight for a good environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1259	This is the last budget debate we have in Stortingen before the voters to the harvest put together a new big deal. So let me start by summing up my and the Christian People's Party's main impression of the budgetary priorities over this period: From the first budgetary decision in the autumn of 2005 until the last budgetary decision today, the current government has had an unparalleled financial autonomy. Expenditure has increased by DKK 95 billion in real terms from 2005 to now. This is mainly due to an increase in oil money consumption of NOK 72 billion. That's about $45 billion more than the last government could add to the budgets in the last period. Then the government has received a clear increase in so-called structural tax revenue, which it has been able to dispose of freely for good purposes. It has also done so in this revised budget, despite the financial crisis. I have recorded that several government councils are very concerned with comparing the levels of appropriations through this period with what was the case in the previous one, and would like to add ‘welfare over tax’, where more than ever has been granted. And it was just supposed to be missing. If the government had not been able to actually increase the appropriations in most areas with such a space of action, it would have been directly indestructible. So the big question is, although most people in this country have higher purchasing power now – in the middle of the financial crisis – than four years ago, and public budgets for different welfare purposes have risen to levels they have never been at before: have we got better in Norway anyway? The Christian People's Party realizes, of course, that issues of material well-being and economic distribution are important both to silence and to answer, but we believe that alone it is not enough to assess whether society is moving forward. In the context of budgetary debates such as this — perhaps especially then — it is important to measure societal development more broadly. Are the close communities of families, non-governmental organisations and communities strengthened or confused? Is the personal sense of responsibility and the commitment to the environment, to the world's poor, to people in our own country who fall outside? Such values we think are at least as important to a good society as economic values. But we don't think there will be enough focus on it, unless the measurement and reporting on it is taken as seriously into budgetary documents and discussions as the economic objectives. That is the background for our impatience after putting in place broader, non-material objectives of quality of life in the budgetary documents. We have a cautiously optimistic belief that we will already see some traces of it in the autumn. With the extra 3 billion that the Christian People's Party is putting into strategically important areas of the revised national budget, areas where we believe the Government is too defensive, we are strengthening these areas. We strengthen the company's own ability to finance the necessary investments in the financial crisis, thus strengthening the basis for employment. We provide for the conversion of energy use towards the low-carbon society we all want. We are intensifying efforts to combat poverty in Norway. The queues of those who want and need drug treatment are growing, and the waiting time for treatment services is increasing. There have been several poor people in this period. There are several children in poor families. There is longer waiting time for drug addicts. It's almost a doubling of the rebound queue. There's no reason to be satisfied with this. Now I realized that the representative Ryan might have some areas he didn't mention, which he wasn't satisfied with. But I wonder very much about the lack of recognition by the Minister of Finance and the Government of the shortcoming in the fight against poverty. I think we could add a lot of the rhetoric that has also been in this debate, and rather ask each other: why haven't we reached any more? And what can be done to meet the situation? I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance in this debate to acknowledge that she has come short on this point, rather than being stuck in old rhetoric from the 2005 election campaign. There's nothing coming out of it. I can guarantee that. It is absolutely not worthy of the credibility that we, as politicians, together and individually, depend on. The Christian People's Party doubles the objective of starting hospitals and nursing homes. There is a strong need, also in view of the need to build hospice services. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has now carefully opened up to strengthen the rights of the elderly in the legislation. We are still waiting for concrete follow-up to concluded agreements with the Christian People's Party on the legalisation of a guarantee of dignity. Let me conclude by saying that, like all our friends in volunteer Norway, we are happy with what the Government has done in terms of VAT exemptions for voluntary activities. It concludes with a significant strengthening of volunteering. We're happy with that. But we'll make sure, if we get in position, to attach this in a completely different way, so that the organizations know what they can relate to and don't depend on the budget framework to get what they're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1281	The previous government in which the Christian People's Party was involved, introduced tax on dividends, removed the charges on disposable packaging, removed the net pay regime for seafarers, increased VAT and cut innovation in Norway. The Minister of Economic Affairs actually traveled around the country and the beach and said that the toolbox was empty. Today we have heard from representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Right that we are concerned about the competitive situation. Nevertheless, the parties choose to go beyond the Ministry of Finance's financial framework for the use of money. Fear that the krone price is going up: there is always a limit that one should deal with politically, so that the krone price does not go up and thus makes a lot worse for the competitive industry. I'm just wondering what's the basis that the Christian People's Party has suddenly got the message that they're going to spend so much money. Is the Christian People's Party willing to risk jobs for a few votes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1290	The Christian People's Party believes that it is most responsible and within the rule of action to grant NOK 3 billion more in the revised national budget than the government proposes. I would like to remind the representative of Klungland that the same criticism was addressed to the Christian People's Party in the Grand Chamber on 19 November last year by Prime Minister Stoltenberg, when he pointed out that we went further in oil money – last autumn – than the government did. Yeah, we went $6 billion further than the government last fall. But what has happened in the financial year? As early as January, the government proposed NOK 27 billion more than what they themselves proposed last autumn – and now in revised NOK 9.5 billion more. I think these numbers speak for themselves. The representative of Klungland may stop worrying. He can sleep well on the way home, although he cannot take the night train.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1297	SV appreciates the Christian People's Party and the representative Høybråten's concern and ambitions on behalf of the poor, on behalf of asylum seekers – not least minor asylum seekers. When I hear the Højbrätt today, it reminds me a little about the role SV had in the previous period. In terms of these groups, there are a lot of similarities between SV and the Christian People's Party. In the last period, Højbråten could speak like an SV. After all, we have choices for the autumn, and now we see that the Right-Cuts strongly in posts they call ‘closer asylum policy’. Is the Højbråten comfortable with the Right as a possible partner in these fields until the fall, as it now appears?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1307	The representative Lund Bergo has made a very important and absolutely correct observation. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has taken up a free place in Norwegian politics during this process. It is the place that became vacant after SV when SV stopped challenging power, but became part of power, when SV instead of being the offensive party that fights poverty, it became the party that defends the state of things and says it is satisfied with as little as we have achieved in this period. It is the place that became vacant when SV stopped challenging the huge purchase party, but he himself sat down on top and administered it. The Christian People's Party is very well in this role, but we have an ambition to take the role in government offices. It depends on our strength and our welcome at the elections in September. If we get a stronger response, we're also going to get an impact on that kind of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1316	I didn't intend to take a line, but I think it's such strong words – both in the line of the representative Lund Bergo and otherwise in the post – with the characteristics of the government as, for example, 'directly indestructible', that I am asking for the word. It is actually wrong that this government has had a greater financial autonomy than the previous one, as calculated by the Ministry of Finance. A former Council of State should know that. The scope of action in budgetary policy is mainly determined by the underlying developments in the fiscal base of the mainland economy. There is no government that uses the tax dollars at the same rate as they enter. It would reinforce the economic fluctuations. The space for action has been about the same – NOK 35 billion. This government has used it differently from the previous one. I think that the leader of the Christian People's Party could be so precise that he says that it was important, on the part of the Christian People's Party, to give priority to tax relief over the community as this government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1325	Let me first correct a wrong impression, which the representative Lundteg must have got by listening to my post. I did not say that the government was indestructible, but I said that it would be indestructible about it, with the space of action it has had, had not been able to put in increased appropriations in almost all important areas of the budget. The government has done that. What was my point was that there is no achievement with the space of action that this government has had. It has had an enviably simple priority job compared to what we had during the last government period – with a much narrower economic framework and times than has been the case in this majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1337	Now that I'm standing here for the last time, I remember the first post I had 35 years ago – the fall of 1974. It was in the first big abortion debate, and it was about the family message. The family situation in society is something that's been bothering me all along. So that time it was about the unborn life -- now I'm obviously more interested in the end of my life, because I've lived for 35 years since then. One of the things that has happened is that life expectancy in Norway has risen. There are much more healthy elderly people, but unfortunately there are many older people who need help. I find it sad to have to register that the Progress Party today is the only party that will remove the curtailment of pension payments to married and cohabiting pensioners. Indeed, most people in this country have believed that once they have paid in to popular protection, they have been granted rights. We think they should have rights, even if they don't have legal rights. That's up to the Storting what you do. We think it's sad that we're the only ones who want you not to be punished financially in old age by getting less pension than you would have had you not been married or cohabited with another person. This means that many older people actually intend to make a difference, or have divorced the pro forma to strengthen their economic base. We think it's gross, and we find that this is the way it is. I have also very often had a dream of being in an election campaign without talking about care for the elderly, because care for the elderly was not a problem. We're fighting elections in the problem areas of society, not what's right. We have no debate on how to dimension the car repair industry in the individual state. We don't have any plans for that, because there's no problem. However, with regard to care for the elderly, we have major problems; we continue to discuss care for the elderly as a major problem. As I said, it is very nice that many healthy elderly people are doing well, and that is why it is sad that we have not followed – and there I take responsibility. We experience that people have to stop because they're 60 years old, for example. Police officer Finn Abrahamsen in Oslo, Yngve Hågensen had to leave as LO leader because he had reached a certain age – we have not adjusted the age limits upwards as life increases. That is why we hope to support the proposal we have promoted to have a much more structured and comprehensive review of age limits than what I know The Government is doing – and I might say so that for those who want to, for those who are able and qualified to work, age alone should not be a reason for dismissal. So respect for the elderly must be strengthened. We can measure a society by how it treats the elderly, and there we have something to learn from our new countrymen. In political work, too, we should make things much better for those who are older. We also think it is a pity that the red-green government will not really help to legislate legal rights for those who, according to the public sector, also have a need for assistance that could automatically trigger the necessary financial resources. There are many schemes where there are the needs that govern what we spend on money. Unemployment benefits are a current need. The payments are increasing, without anyone asking where the money comes from. The need is there. It's the number of birthers who control how much we spend in maternity benefits, and it's the disease image that controls what we spend on sickness benefits. Unfortunately, we are still alone in saying the same thing, both in health care and care for the elderly, that when the needs for operations, or the needs for health care places come, it should be the public interest that had the financial responsibility, so that the ratios in these areas could be brought to an end. But what's been most pleasant to observe is that the Progress Party has taken over the role of the party for the most people, as the Workers' Party had when I started politics in 1974. Now it is the role of the Progress Party, and we also see it in the debate and voting today. It is the Progress Party that is the most offensive force in reducing unemployment. We are the ones who say that now we can beat two flies in one taste: we have many vacant building workers, we have a great need for both nursing homes and nursing homes – why in the world can't we remove the ceiling for the subsidy framework that the House Bank has when it comes to providing grants to new nursing homes and nursing homes? Then we could get several of the building workers who work on unemployment leave, and they could build something we need for the future, namely more hospitals and care places.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1354	Work for everyone is job number one. What a life situation he had, the stained suspension, which suggested this as the election battle word for the Workers' Party, we can't imagine. But the slogan is as current today as it was then. Despite the unemployment rate and the serious economic situation we're in, the unemployment rate is lower than when it went down so the Bondevik government was supported by the Progress Party. The ability to create, share and live makes most people feel good in Norway. It was also this direction that people in Norway would have in previous elections. The voters would have more resources for school, the elderly, culture, the road, care, and they would have more kindergartens. They would have an active industrial policy and a stable competitive environment in production companies, and they would have an active environmental policy – not just talk. They would have framework conditions in their working life which meant that they could not be forced to work longer days and longer weeks, they would have a fight against social dumping, and they would have strong protection against dismissal. The voters would have a government that could save jobs, for example: for Norwegian seafarers, brewers and in the export industry. They wanted a government that secured Norwegian jobs, as we did in Aker. They were tired of the neutral business policy, the cuts in the local economy, the increased excesses, the privatisation of schools and state councils running around with empty toolboxes. The budgets we have made during the period — then also revised budgets under consideration today — show that the choice for the autumn will be a choice for the Norwegian model of society. And even though we've achieved a lot, we're facing big problems in the time that comes. The international financial crisis causes more people to lose their jobs or to be outsourced. Hospitals and care for the elderly need to improve, schools need to improve, students need to gain more knowledge, the public sector and business needs to develop, and resources need to be managed so that we get an even better society. Since this is my last budgetary procedure, I would say, we don't have the perfect society, and we'll never get there, but I'm proud of what I've been allowed to be on, and we're on our way. We have managed to hold back in good times, so that we can now, as the situation warrants, spend more money on the major challenges that Norway has. We have a strong public sector, with strong welfare mechanisms that ensure assistance and financial contributions to those who come into a difficult period of life. We have increased the unemployment strike considerably after the cuts of the Bondevik government. We've changed the rules on permitting, so that costs are lower, and permits are used more rather than cancellations. We have taken action for those who become unemployed to get them back to work quickly. We have increased the minimum pensions, the social benefits, lowered the proportions of those who need it most, and provided for a sustainable pension reform. We have built roads and railways that never before, allocated billions of dollars to environmental research, adopted the world's most ambitious quota system and set up environmental funds worth $10 billion. Yes, we're even going to have a moon landing in Mongstad once in the future – and much, much more. It's amazing! I've been involved in bringing Norway forward, and I'm proud of that, President. Thank you for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1377	The central party has changed Norway in important areas in the last four years in government with the Labour Party and SV: We have presented our own national transport plan, where we spend 100 billion more on road and rail than in the existing national transport plan, a transport plan that we have overfilled and increased actively in the last four years. Local authorities have been given a solid economic boost, so that most people now — after years of starvation from a right-wing government — can again provide a good schooling and a worthy care for the elderly. The government has ensured that Norway’s main district policy tool, differentiated employer’s fee, survives, despite strong pressure from the EU on liquidation. This will provide some $10 billion for businesses in the districts. We are also in the process of providing the basis for new agricultural optimism. We have assured that our large and valuable hydropower resources will still be in Norwegian ownership, despite strong pressure from the EU and a right-wing government that had given up. When we find solutions to the financial crisis, the goal is that these will also bring us closer to a solution to the climate and food crisis. The objectives of the Government's economic policy are full employment, sustainable development, fairer distribution and strengthening of welfare arrangements. The most important thing is to help keep unemployment down. Difor is an expansive fiscal policy. Oil revenues give us freedom of action to take action to reduce the negative effects of the financial crisis. It has been important for us to apply this to measures in the transport and municipal sectors – measures we know will have a major impact on employment. In January, the Government proposed new employment measures for the 2009 budget corresponding to NOK 20 billion. In the revised national budget, we propose to strengthen the municipal economy further. The 2009 government budget will be the most expansive in 30 years. I will address some of the many good proposals in the revised national budget. The government will ensure that people throughout the country still have a good service offer where they live and work. We want 518 million. kr for the government purchase of so-called "wool-free", state-enforced postal and banking services from Item Noreg AS. When the 2009 budget was presented last autumn, all forecasts indicate that the revenue from the total item of the Item could also be covered in 2009 by the costs of the services in question. Therefore, no proposals were made for such a purchase. Now the world looks different. It is sent less letters, advertisements and packages than before, and it obviously affects the economy of the Post. For us in the Central Party, it is important that we thus ensure good and equivalent postal and banking services throughout the country also in the future. Right and left think that the Post itself has to finance a larger part of the wretched services, and will reduce the rights of government purchases. The problem with it is that there will be no excess in the group in 2009 to finance the most brutal services. Therefore, it is necessary to allow the entire sum Government has proposed. The progress party on its page suggests that the Post should no longer be imposed on banking services. Then I would like to remind you that although more and more Internet banks are using today, there are still many people in the country who do not have access to such services and who are dependent on the provision of banking services from the Post Office, either at post office, Post Office in Butikk or at the country post office. I would also like to remind you that this is a bank offer Stortinget last year decided to stay. The party's proposal will destroy the banking supply for the elderly and others who cannot use new technology. In the revised national budget, the Government will grant 200 million. kr in an exceptional investment package for agriculture and forestry so that construction projects can be started immediately. The government will increase the framework of the municipalities, and hence the municipal economy, by DKK 1 billion in the revised national budget for 2009. In addition, the tax revenue estimate for the local government sector is up by 300 million. kr. These changes will counteract constraints that can affect employment and reduce service provision. Tuesday was a big day for the Center Party and for the Government. We could then finally put forward new, durable and robust VAT regimes for voluntary organisations. This is in practice a gift package for voluntary teams and organisations with over DKK 1 billion. The effect of today's VAT system has been that several thousand hours of hard work have actually entered the treasury directly in the form of VAT on the purchase of football suits, musical instruments, etc. I am proud that Dugnads-Noreg will now have better framework conditions and can use time and energy to do voluntary work. This shows a government that builds the whole country, that sees the individual as its value in its communities, that sees the whole country and uses the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1401	Summer is at the door. Summer is a good time, but unfortunately many accidents occur in traffic during the summer months. I often experience that the Council of State has been concerned about – at least she says she wants to do something about – road safety. Unfortunately, the measures are very little concrete. Let me give you an example: I know that over the past week, there have been almost accidents with an exclamation vehicle on, among other things. E18. I also know that more than a month ago, the Council of State received a question from one of those who work in the emergency room, who are in charge of calling out on our roads. The councils have still not answered. Then I can allow myself to ask the question here, and you might get answers to questions that many of those who are driving a vehicle are concerned about: ‘Is it the Minister for Transport who has decided that there should be midpoints/markers on E-18? With this marking, we will be in line with serious sick/damaged patients in the car as it is impossible to get past the other traffic due to the other traffic. the lack of space. It is claimed that we should be able to cross the midpoint which I consider impossible. Who should be responsible when we stand in line and patients die due to lost time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1409	First, I have to remember the great effort this government has made for road safety. In 2009, the resources for less road safety measures have been doubled. This means more money for middle-parts, more money for handrails, for side-planning, for cross-sections, for safer roads throughout the country – in addition to the huge effort being made on the road, both in the current period and in the national transport plan. Unfortunately, I do not know the question referred to. I will examine this when I come to the department, and the person concerned will of course get an answer. I'll take care of that. When it comes to middle parts of the E18, we follow the technical advice given by the State Road Service in that field. It's those who have the professional insight and give advice. It is not that the Council of State is going to look at where - and what type - the rails are going to be set up. But, as I said, we're going to get a proper answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1418	I noticed that the Council of State this time talked about also other things than transportation, naturally enough in a revised-debate, but she does not escape the same replicators as she tends to have. Although she is talking about other than transportation, was not self-evidently less for that reason, and the downgrading, or downgrading, of the Right Policy was at least as strong. But I still want to challenge the Council of State on a theme that has been a repetition of this big time, because the Government itself had confirmed in Soria Moria that it would introduce so-called project funding. We then received the famous rejection from the Minister of Finance in Yellow Book, who said this was not necessary, because we had enough money. But as far as I know, both the Centre Party, and at least the National Labour Party meeting, have decided that they will have project funding, without this being reflected in the National Transport Plan and during its examination. When will the Government clarify its view of long-term, stable funding to ensure good Norwegian roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1426	First, I'd like to say that it's been nice to have a lot of good questions in the line rounds from different representatives, including Greece. I don't rake down on Right's policy. I tried to say something about why Right's proposals won't work well in Posten's area. When it comes to project financing, I have said many times in this Chamber that regardless of the method of funding – whether a OPS, project financing or other methods – it will be the seventh and last of all about the will and ability of each government to allow money over the state budget. In any case, the money must be available. This government has shown that she has the potential. At the same time, in order to take the good part of project funding, we have at least the best part of the national transport plan, namely that a rapid implementation takes place, that of several road sections and that of a route on its own projects to try it out further. We will also go further with what goes on in different ways to organise the operation of the road system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1433	It'll be a new repetition, that's the fast route. In the debate on the national transport plan, I challenged the Minister whether we were going to have the tendering criteria for Stortinget before the Stortinget split up, and then I got the following answer: 'As time has passed, it is not possible to bring this matter up for debate in the Stortinge in ours, so I must be allowed to return to the committee, if necessary in writing, in so far as it is possible to put it in place before the Storinge leaves each other'. No letter has come to the committee. When we dealt with the National Transport Plan, there was a few weeks left, so both the Minister and I realized that it was problematic to get it up. What are the consequences of this? Does this mean that the fast route issue is then exposed to new sizes in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1445	We have had a new meeting with the National Sub-Committee, and the process is going too far. I am sorry that we were unable to get the case before Stortinget left each other. To the extent that there is a change in today's sailing pattern, as Stortinget must have the opportunity to discuss, it will probably have to wait for a new expansion to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1455	The world has been, and is, within a troubled and demanding time, where all countries notice the financial crisis. Some countries notice it more than others. But the crisis is not canceled, as both Prime Minister and Minister of Finance confirm today. It's actually that it's not certain that there's light at the end of the tunnel we see, but maybe the light of the train coming towards us. The only thing that's certain is that it's uncertain. When we see that stock prices are rising, it probably says a lot more about the expectations of some people than it is based on facts, so it should not be an indicator of what the crisis is or is going to be like. However, monetary and financial policies are now contributing very strongly to the economy, while investment in the petroleum sector is expected to continue. The reduction in interest rates to the Bank of Norway generates significant growth in household purchasing power. But at the same time, it is important to remember that individuals have to take responsibility and not borrow more than their wallet says they can, and that banks also have to take responsibility and not lend out more than they should in relation to what people are able to serve, because interest rates are not going to be as low as they are now. Although weak developments in the international economy are affecting competitive industries, there is evidence of better development in Norway than in most other countries. But there is no comfort for those who are being hit. Employment has fallen, while unemployment has increased. It is mainly people in industry and in construction that are affected, and for those affected, it is hard times. Work until all are jobs. 1st@item: inlistbox Nothing creates more differences than having a job and not having a job. This is why the Government has taken various measures in the various packages to avoid increased unemployment and to avoid a high level of unemployment. For this reason, the Government has proposed and implemented important measures to provide those who have become unemployed, the possibility of retraining and skills enhancement. The government proposes to increase the number of study places just in order to allow more people to study rather than enter the labour market. At the same time, there is a strong increase or growth in the annual budgets that normally apply for higher education, so one must also take this into account. Therefore, the Government proposes an increase of 180 million. kr to increase study capacity from autumn 2009 by about 4 200 places. 1 000 of these places go to teacher training, which is a major need. 850 of these places are going to health and social sciences. There are 550 places in MNT, and there are 600 places in universities and colleges, which decide what they're going to go to. But we're also increasing by 800 places to decentralised education, which is very important for those who live in the districts. A good example of this is the municipality of Sauda, which has now entered into a partnership with the University of Stockholm, Stord Haugesund, about an online college. We also know that thousands of people are struggling with basic knowledge. Therefore, the Government grants an additional 20 million. kr to the so-called basic knowledge programme in working life. Increasing basic knowledge makes it easier for the person concerned, but it also makes it easier for people to enter the labour market. It also contributes positively to the needs and needs of society. It is very important that the skills of the labour market are increased. That is why we are putting these measures in place now in these times of crisis. Increased basic appropriations for universities and higher education have been granted because the economy needs to be improved, but also in order to provide higher education with a greater space for action. The Government's proposal to increase the grant to post-secondary schools by 20 million. kr is a very good grant that will give approximately. 400 new places of study in post-secondary schools. We need those hands at work. Last, but not least, we're proposing to spend $35 million. In order to meet the issue of non-response in high school. It's very important. It will give closer follow-up to the students and hopefully make fewer drops out. Everyone knows that those who labor the most and end up in line when unemployment rises are the ones who drop out of high school. It's not a good start for a young person, so we have to avoid that. No one should start their adult life that way. Finally, one of the areas where the Government has really delivered is in the cultural sector. We haven't just delivered, but we've survived. It's a pleasure that the volunteer heart is big, that we now get the VAT compensation in place, and add $1 billion to the table. It will give teams and associations greater scope for action, and it will create further increases in the voluntary sector and in that work. But it's also important that we put in place a system that works well for everyone, because it's not always that what's best for football is best for music. So the work that the fast-working sample is going to do is very important for what this is going to look like in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1478	What we have in this debate and in previous debates is, among other things, what we have in this debate. the tax approach, whether it makes sense to provide tax relief, and whether it makes sense for employees to retain more of their income and decide for themselves how to use these money, rather than for the State to charge taxes and decide on how to use the money. Then, of course, one of the questions is whether we pay a lot in taxes and taxes in Norway, or whether we pay little in taxes and taxes. Then I'm going to illustrate it. The question is, when an employer pays a 1000-note to an employee, how much does he keep after using these money? So the first thing that happens when you pay out a 1000 kroner, from an employer to an employee, is that there is 141 kroner for an employer's fee. And then 240 is going to go into general taxes. Then it goes to NOK 67 for the social security fee. If one of these is going to cost over NOK 441,000, you're going to get a top tax, and then you're going to get 9 pst. in the top tax of the State. Then you get one paid less than what the state is left with. Of course it won't stop there. When the wage earner uses these funds, new taxes also go to the country. Depending on what wage earner spends these money, money goes to the state differently. If a user uses these money, NOK 475 paid to fill up gas, 73 pst goes. of which entered into the State in the form of a petrol tax and VAT. That means that the salary earner is left with 128 kroner of petrol. – This 1000-note that was so big has become so small. The rest have been confiscated by the public in the form of taxes and taxes. These money that one of them has received, NOK 128, is going to pay those who work at the gas station – also at the tax they are going to pay. It's going to pay those who work at the refinery, and the tax they pay. There are also taxes and wages for those working in the North Sea, who pump oil, and of course also for those who transport oil from the North Sea to the refinery and gasoline from the refinery to the gas stations. If there is any surplus – if we think this is a Statoil station – then part of the surplus, in addition to the tax paid, will return to the state. Well, I think this example shows that we have a very high tax burden. It's unfortunate, especially in the situation we're moving into now, with rising unemployment and precarious jobs due to the financial crisis and developments in the world economy. Therefore, I think it is a pity that the government party has not considered reducing taxes and taxes, reducing tax burden, so that the workplaces, businesses, could become more secure, and that employees could also retain more of their wages both to safeguard their own situation and also to sustain a purchasing power which would also ensure other jobs. In any case, these are clear lines of policy. I do not think there will be any change in that today or in the future, but at least I have tried to illustrate that we have a high tax pressure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1504	When we were here a year ago, no one talked a lot about the coming economic crisis and the uncertainty in the labour market. In the meantime, there has been a major issue. I want to say it this way: there is one thing that concerns me now, and that is that there are too few who are concerned about the situation on the labour market. I think there is too little attention to the challenges ahead of us in the public debate. I mean that because around the world we see an ever-increasing unemployment. In Sweden, we heard today, the number had risen to 9 pst. from 8.2 pst. We see that the markets to which Norwegian goods have to be exported are going down. Industrial production has been reduced more than ever since World War II. There's reason, with the reduced growth we see in the world around us, to be concerned about the situation in the future. That's why it's the most important task of the Government. The cause of the crisis was ideological liberalism in many ways. Lack of regulation of financial markets combined with a very developed greed culture in remunerating managers of those banks, who only earn bonuses on short-term profits and not long-term industrial thinking, was the cause of the crisis. That's probably also why we could read in The New York Times a short time ago that our finance minister, Kristin Halvorsen, had a lesson to learn from the rest of the world – not just in dealing with crisis, but not least in order to avoid crisis. In many ways, the Norwegian model has proved to be completely unique in dealing with challenges, but above all it contributes to minimising the challenges. Norway’s Bank also concludes in its latest report yesterday that the policy measures taken, fiscal and monetary policy actually work in relation to the situation we would otherwise have had. It is still important for the Government to be committed to countering increased unemployment by increasing demand, by setting up carpenters to clean schools, kindergartens, rather than going out of business, and by activating both government budgets, municipal budgets, stimulating activity. But it's important that we do things for those who become unemployed. That's why we've increased the daily allowance period from 26 to 52 weeks. We have reduced the requirement to the time you have to be on leave to get a daily allowance, from 50 pst. 40 pst., and we've reduced the number of day-olds for the employee from five to three, after the previous government increased them to five days, and we've strengthened the flexibility in the ability to roll the permits, so that the load can be divided into several. It's therefore a little funny to see that the parties that exacerbated the situation of the unemployed and for those who permitted while they were in government, now promote further proposals that go even further than the government, but I think it's important to consider what the different parties are doing, and not what they say a few months before elections. This period has also been historical in terms of combating poverty. Social security benefits have increased too many groups, not least for the minimum pensioners. We have on two occasions regulated the indicative social assistance rates more than the price increase. We have launched the qualification programme, which means that more than 5,000 people who have never been offered any help to return to the labour market have now received it, and not least we have increased housing support, so that 40,000 to 50,000 new people come under the housing support scheme. We have done what we said before the 2005 elections that we should do. That time we said we needed a new course, and we have given the country a new course. That course is in line with the best traditions of the Norwegian model, and to me it is that the choice of the harvest is very much about it: will we continue the Norwegian model which has made the Minister of Finance positive in The New York Times, and which makes us quite unique, which makes us have good cooperation with the social partners, and which does not weaken workers' rights, that we have an economic policy of cleanliness, that we can use extra when needed, and that we defend the welfare model as we know it, so that we can avoid privatisation of health, school and other important areas? This government is going to continue working to make it the Norwegian model. We look forward to the autumn's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1526	It was interesting that State Councillor Andersen mentioned Finance Minister Halvorsen and her excellence mentioned in The New York Times. I think personally that journalist should have taken a trip to Norway. Four years ago, the then representative said that we should remove poverty in this country with a pen stroke. Now it's far more poor than it was at that time. So, of course, the Council of State can point out that measures are being taken to combat poverty, but the number of poor people has increased. The fact is it doesn't matter to talk away from. Then the question is: is the Council of State satisfied with what the Government has achieved in combating poverty in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1533	There are things that indicate that the journalist in The New York Times has put himself in a good position in Norwegian terms, but maybe the representative Svendsen should take a walk and look at the American conditions, because they are the ones he compared with, and then Norway comes out well. As far as the poor are concerned, I am pleased that we have put in place a wide range of measures. We have made a redistribution in relation to what was the policy of the previous government. We've also increased the minimum pension. We have increased the pension for others, who get small benefits. We've strengthened social assistance, we've strengthened the House Bank, and we've taken action to help people get back to work. There is a wide range of measures that we have taken and that the previous government did not. This government is not satisfied as long as there are some who are poor. Now, the concept of poverty is a concept of those who have under median income in the country, and the representative may agree with me, so it's hard to get everyone with more than average income. But just as we say everyone should work, we say no one should be poor. We're going to work in that direction as long as there's someone left who hasn't got the offer in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1542	The Council of State said in its speech that he is now concerned that there were so few who were concerned, at which he holds a five-minute main feature in the debate here today without expressing any concern about the fact that the number of poor is increasing. I think that's pretty special. In the election campaign four years ago, current Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, who was then an opposition politician, said in a TV debate at the TV 2 public meeting on 24 August, when the theme was to combat poverty: ‘This is not difficult [[...]] Is it so that when there are now more poor people, perhaps it was not so easy to abolish poverty anyway, or was it the political will that disappeared?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1555	Just as I said in the answer to Svendsen, we are a government that believes that work for everyone is goal no. one – that is also the most important poverty response – we believe that no one should be poor in Norway. That doesn't mean that nobody is unemployed today, but that means that we just have the political will to do something about it. In the same way, it is with poverty. It's our ambition not to be poor in Norway. That is why we have done something for those who benefit, and I have already answered that. In addition to this, it is for example: that this government has implemented maximum rates for kindergartens. It really means a lot more to those who have little money than to the representative and me. That's good distribution policy. The fact that we make sure that we have a public offer in the school and health services that gives the same offer to everyone is also important distribution policy, especially for the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1564	A month ago, the measures that the Government wanted to implement the Nav reform were discussed here in the Chamber. The Council of State then said that the measures taken, both in terms of appropriations and organisational terms, would provide users with better services. At the same time, however, the Council of State said that if the figures for residues in Nav in May did not show a clear improvement, the Directorate had to assess whether the measures taken were correct and sufficient. We have now received a report on the work environment in Nav, which is very serious. We have got figures for May that can hardly be said to represent the improvement in processing time that we all hoped for. Of course, I do not expect measures adopted in Stortinget on 15 May to have full effect on 19 June. I would like to hear how the Council of State assesses the situation, and what he intends to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1569	Let me first comment on the work environment survey and the knowledge of what was subsequently published in a recent report. This is a long-term study. There has been close cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate and Nav. It was some of the reasons that came out of the proposition that I made, which was the background for the 710 million. kr. Then it is true that in April – before the measures had started to work, as the representative quite rightly said – there was once again a slight increase in the number of stays. But if one measures it fine and looks at the number of working days, production would have increased somewhat in April. The preliminary figures from May – and I underline preliminary, not to be taken into account later – indicate that we are now in a more positive development again – not so that we will not get individual cases, not so that everything is perfect, but the preliminary reports I have received indicate that we are once again in a positive trend in residual development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1579	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1584	In the revised budget for 2009, there is a red-green thread. The heavy grips are aimed at mitigating the effects of the financial crisis on society and individuals. One of them is the further stepping up of labour market measures with new 1 000 posts, up to the 6000 additional posts already adopted in the context of «Actions for work». Several action areas need to be seen in conjunction with the major reforms of social protection systems and measures in the conversion of the entire labour and welfare policy. In addition, for the very first time, we are increasing the cost ceiling for training aid for people with disabilities, not least the vocational schools and their pupils will appreciate it. Combating unemployment is the best means of preventing poverty. Unemployment is controlled by active measures in many areas. Taxes reduce the scope of action. It's not red-green politics. Instead, we are fully committed to securing jobs and creating new ones. That's what results are. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg showed in his statement here today that unemployment forecasts are now being reduced somewhat as a direct result of the measures put in place. In the setting, the Right raids over the Government's poverty pact and calls it a ban. But then there are more who are on the same errand. The right-hand side is going to add 75 million. and claims that it will provide a more comprehensive and targeted poverty policy. That reasoning is with respect to notifying a little difficult to hang out with. When today's government's annual poverty rate is more than DKK 3 billion above the level of the previous government, it's probably about $75 million. kr will constitute the large difference. With this budget setting, the total number of action posts is now 75 000, a stepping up of more than 20 pst. during the period. It gives room to step up beyond the year with 5,000 new places. And speaking of surrender, the three previous government parties are all adding a little bit more, the right 200 million. kr, Christian People's Party and Left 50 million. kr each. It would probably not have been as easy if the money had already been taxed. I therefore recommend all three to send a friendly idea to the government of Stoltenberg, which, rather than tax relief, went to the unusual step from the beginning of increasing the level of action year by year, despite strong growth in employment and record low unemployment. If we had built down the level of action then, we wouldn't have the power to get it back up fast enough now. A high level of action is not just about money. It's also about having a device to put it into life. Now we all benefit from a forward-looking policy, both position and opposition, but especially those who are now out of work or out of work. The new areas of action are primarily for those in need of qualifications. It will benefit both them, the employers and society more than the tax relief option of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1593	Work for everyone is the headline of all the red-green speeches here today, and responsible state councils are concerned about the future. But why not do something in the revised budget? That's the reason. There are, of course, no measures targeted at enterprises and jobs that could have helped to stagnate the increase we are now seeing in unemployment rates. The government will enter this summer with a rapidly increasing unemployment queue, but also with the responsibility not to use the occasion in the revised national budget to do anything about it. The freedom of the press is breaking down, and what we hear about in most articles, is what the government has done so far. But what we're talking about now is what we're going to do in the future. I think it's going to be a clear engraving of the government from this greatest decline in 70 years, where it's going to say that it's frenetically refused to use all the instruments. Not only have not used the revised budget to promote fiscal measures that could stimulate enterprises and jobs, but the opportunity to remove tax increases in enterprises and jobs from the budget last year — a budget adopted in November when we were in the crisis. When the unemployment benefit has gradually washed inwards throughout the year, there are no solutions. In a situation that calls for realism, pragmatism and the ability to test all solutions, the Government responds with dogmatism and ideological resistance to solutions that could ease tax pressure and increase the number of workplaces in businesses. Both the Right and the other opposition parties propose a number of fiscal measures in the revised budget. It shows that the opposition very much agrees on the direction of this way of stimulating working life, and one is well-assessed about this. In conclusion, I would like to say a little bit about the proposal for a temporary reduction in the employer's fee, which has been a lot of discussion about here today, deservedly enough, because it is an important matter. The chairman of the Committee said earlier here today that companies could not be helped that were profitable, and I understood from the Labour Party's parliamentary leader that this kind of tax relief did not work. That's not right. This has been estimated to work by the Central Statistical Office. It is clear that we can't just help the companies that are on the edge of the dive. We also have to make sure that those who are still profitable, those who may even be able to hire new ones, don't get on the edge of the dot, and at least don't fall out. It's a complete short cut that you just have to help those who might go under anyway. You have to make sure that there are new jobs in the companies that have the right to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1606	Prime Minister Stoltenberg has repeatedly stated that today's red-green government has been responsible for social development in the last four years with a majority government. As many speakers have mentioned before, this government has had record money to spend, and it has invested a lot. It has had a totally phenomenal consumption. What is the status after four years of red-green rule? I'll mention some areas: The level of knowledge among primary and secondary school students is among the lowest in Europe. Absence in secondary school has never been higher. Road maintenance has increased. A new record has been set for toll collection. Train traffic has steadily stopped due to a lack of investment in infrastructure. We have got 100,000 new non-Western immigrants, with the challenges it faces for integration. We've never had more serious crime. We've never had a more dissatisfied police force than we have now. In social policy, more people have never been unable to support themselves. Never has there been any more government transfers as principal income. Never before have so many people been employed in public administration. Never has the relative proportion of people in the private sector been smaller. Never has it been less profitable to work. On Monday this week, the Stortinget debated a proposal from the Christian People's Party to develop a gross national quality of life target as a complement to gross domestic product, in order to ensure better consistency between policies and what gives the citizens high quality of life. This was a good idea for all parties, including the Progress Party. The quality of life is different than getting a check in the post office from the state every month. Quality of life will vary from person to person, but certain basic factors must be present: We all need personal freedom. We all need freedom of choice to make decisions about our own welfare. We need security for life, health and property. We need coherence and belonging. We need to protect about our cultural traditions and roots. We need a society that protects freedom of expression. We need a society where people feel useful and that they can contribute. We need a society where the family again becomes the bearer element. Unfortunately, in all these crucial areas of quality of life, Norwegian society is going in the wrong direction. No matter how many red-green billions are pumped into different areas of society, there is an increasing proportion of the population with a sense of abstinence. Neither the adopted State budget for 2009 nor this revision addresses the fundamental challenges facing Norwegian society. The government is trying to get out of the problem, but at the same time it has discovered that the most fundamental challenges in Norwegian society cannot be solved with money alone. New transfers and appropriations may even make problems even more difficult to solve in the long term. The challenges we experience have a different dimension. The challenges are partly structurally organisational, but they are linked to less measurable criteria, such as co-human relations, alienation and lack of national cohesion. The government claims it is on the right track, but this claim encounters great scepticism in an increasing proportion of the Norwegian people. The truth is that very many Nordics feel a great concern for the future, and they do not share the red-green admiring of their own achievements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1685	In the revised national budget we are adopting today, there are a number of actions in the education sector. I'm very happy about that. In the economic situation we are now in, it is right to put a strong emphasis on knowledge and competence. Investing in higher education with an increase in the number of new places of study of 3,800 is a strong initiative. The study places are also distributed in a way that is very forward-looking at a time when we need more nurses, pre-school teachers and teachers. In addition, there is a rise in the number of study places within the natural sciences disciplines, which are important studies for our future value creation. Another area that has been strengthened is work on basic labour skills. This is an important area to strengthen, given that many adults are struggling with poor reading and writing skills, which is critical at a time when many businesses have to change. It's also a big obstacle when an adult is looking for a new job. The requirements for basic skills are much higher today than before. That is why this is an important area to strengthen. Many are excluded from the labour market because of a lack of literacy skills. Many have poor school experience, and it is therefore essential to facilitate basic education in the workplace. Many people also find it difficult to admit that reading and writing skills are too poor for modern working life. Trustees in companies do a great job to motivate colleagues to get back to school. For example, LO has have been appointed by qualified persons, who may be a driving force for newly recruiting employees in enterprises to acquire the necessary skills to meet the necessary conversions or to embark on new work in the event of redundancy and redundancy. Strengthening the skills of employees can be crucial if enterprises are to make a tough transition at a time when this is necessary. The red-green majority has also increased the financial support to the study federations during this large-scale period. It was consistently cut under the previous government, despite its important role in adult learning. We have also ensured that student associations are strengthened by changes in the Training Act. The study federations can be an independent learning arena and a good complement to public education for adults, and are good partners for enterprises that want to invest in increased basic skills of their employees. I am pleased that we have a government that sees contexts, and that is aiming at building up knowledge and skills at a time of increasing unemployment, and where some industries and types of workers are more vulnerable than others. Revised national budgets with a focus on knowledge and competence are taking a number of targeted measures to strengthen Norway out of the international financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1700	One of the best investments we can make as a society is to invest in knowledge. The goal of the Christian People's Party is that Norway should be a leading knowledge nation, but that goal we will not achieve with the government we have today. Over four years, education and research have been subjected to down-priority and error priorities. It can't go on like that. We have the prerequisites, but then we have to invest in both school, higher education and research. The Christian People's Party has done so in all its alternative budgets, including what we are dealing with today. We have gone against the number of hours proposed by the Government. The Christian People's Party does not want to give priority to extended hours in primary school, all the time we now face major challenges related to teaching shortages and teacher empowerment. What we need is not hours, but more teachers. Without more and better teachers, we can't create a school of knowledge and well-being. That is why we are proposing in our alternative budget to re-prioritize these funds to create 1,000 new teaching positions to increase the teacher's density in school. It represents a completely different political course than the one we see from the Stoltenberg II government. With the government's policy, there are increasing numbers of students and fewer teachers in the classes. The one-sided focus on early efforts has led the government to forget the high school throughout the period. To get high school to become a master's arena for all students, both those who are strong in theory, and those who have practical skills, we have to offer a much more practical everyday life. The many challenges of youth continue to flourish and lead to a dramatic high drop-out rate in higher education. That's why we're proposing to allocate more to quality development right at high school. We also believe that there is a need to bring more occupational groups into this stage, and propose ways of bringing in more health sisters, advisers and environmental therapists who can help improve everyday life for students and teachers. The Christian People's Party believes that a knowledge nation must invest in research and higher education through changing economic times. This is why we propose to increase basic funding for universities and colleges, so that they have an opportunity to receive the new study places that the Government is now proposing. Now at the tame of the four-year period, there is reason to wonder about the government's priorities. Why in the world did not the rise times be used to strengthen higher education and research? Why did you choose to cut? I just think that the answer is in what reality you have. The University and Higher Education Council, the student organisations, the trade unions, the opposition here at Stortinget all agree that the focus on higher education has been absent. But what does the Government think? Well, it's as usual brilliantly satisfied with its own efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1713	In the revised national budget, we are increasing the appropriations for the defence by just over $1.2 billion. A significant part of this goes to foreign operations with a special focus on Africa. This allows Norway to provide further, significant contributions to peace and stability in Africa and Afghanistan, as well as protection for civil shipping and humanitarian supplies to Somalia. The government allocates 300 million. kr to a Norwegian field hospital in connection with the United Nations operation in Chad. The Norwegian field hospital is a highly sought resource and makes an important contribution to the operation. In addition, we will send a Norwegian frigate to the Gulf of Aden to help fight piracy and protect civil shipping and humanitarian supplies to Somalia. The government will also extend the helicopter contribution in Afghanistan. The helicopter contribution is used for medical evacuation and is of great importance for the safety of our soldiers. The Soria Moria Declaration has thus been implemented in the field of defence and security on all points. No government, I will claim, has followed up the defense from word to action as we have done in the last four years. At the same time, I note that the Progress Party and Right-wing laws and laws both in settings and in party speeches around the country, but when the money is to be given, they are difficult to see. This is also the case in the revised national budget. I would argue that the defense is not served with populism, but with long-term plans for a strong defense that is also followed up with crowns and ears, as we have done in this period. I also note that four years ago we were able to hear the Right Party and the Advance Party exclaim what scandal it would be for the Defense with a government where SV was a member. Where did they not make a mistake? We've spent four years building up the defense. We took over a shaky defense out of financial control and with a heavily built-in army from the progress party-supported Bondevik government. We've got new transport planes. We've made choices of new fighter planes, and eventually we get the most modern marine in Europe. We're rebuilding the Army. The Labour Party believes that we are on the right track, and we will continue to strengthen the defence for the next four years, as we have adopted in the long-term plan – if we are allowed by the voters. Since that's my last post from this pulpit, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to all the co-representatives of all the parties that I've become acquainted with and worked with in these 16 years, in an incredibly exciting and instructive environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1730	The President is allowing a little extra thanks today!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1734	My first post at the Stortinget twelve years ago was about a lack of commitment to transportation in the South. It has taken a long time, but now we are looking forward to opening the new four-field road between Grimstad and Kristiansand for the autumn. My last post at Stortinget is also about transportation in the South. Now it's Kjevik Airport. The district fears that Avinor will shorten the runway to establish safe zones and thus downgrade Kjevik to a small aerodrome. This is a very negative signal to a part of the country in growth. Our business life is optimistic, and last week the business cluster NODE, which is world-leading on the export of technical equipment for oil and gas, was designated as an NCE centre, the Norwegian Centres of Expertise. If we're world leaders, we also have to get into the world quickly, and have a real flight offer. Despite environmental efforts, we will also need aircraft and not least aircraft professionals in the future. Here's something to offer to Aust-Agder. I welcome the comment that underlines the need for air traffic controllers and pilots to be trained in Norway, and that one should build strong and competent professional environments in this country. The municipalities of Evje and Fromand have worked on such a concept for a long time. It is desirable that this be done in cooperation with the University of Agder and the environment around Kjevik. The studies can be started at any time of the next harvest and they will be able to meet the full needs of the 36 air traffic controller stations, which are the annual need, and in Appendix 32 pilots per year. years, covering approx. one third of the need. It must be good that young people do not have to go out to take such training. I hope that the University of South can become a reality, and that this type of education gives the right to study funding. It's boring that not a total magnification is behind the remark. In East Agder, all the parties are united behind such a wish. Since it is my last post, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all the employees and colleagues who have contributed to my looking back with pleasure at the time I have been here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1753	It's nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1756	For me too, this is going to be the last recording from the pulpit. I'm going to start with something I started with over 30 years ago, that's talking a little bit about local politics. I'm referring to Innst. S. No 355 for 2008-2009, in the case of Rødøy-Luruy Power Plant and Lofotkraft, and cable for island communities. The center party is pleased that Coach has got his cable, hurrah! And so did the kids to former oil and energy ministers. But the Central Party has noticed that the Progress Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party in its remark, asks the Government to take along and find solutions for the last two island communities in the North, Værøy and Røst, which have a production per year. is composed of more than 1 million inhabitants in export value. I allow myself to remember that when the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV, today's position, were in opposition in the previous period, they promoted a similar proposal. I confirm here that the Center Party is committed to what we said in 2004. I assume that the other two parties in the government are saying the same thing, and then we're almost close to a constitution proposal, because then we've been dealing with this for two periods, and there's a total hall that gives the government backing to solve this problem. I feel reasonably confident that the Minister for Oil and Energy will have found a solution in the budget in 2010. So, thank you all. Thank you for letting me finish 30 years of political activity from the pulpit here in this Chamber. I didn't dream about that 30 years ago. Thank you to the staging president, who sent a fantastic greeting, with poetry. Thank you for giving me this experience to look back on. Maybe I can tell, to some little guys that I'll hold in my hand on the tune, if that time grandpa was on the Storting. It's a good wisdom to bring with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1767	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1770	If there's one thing that concerns me a lot, it's the high tax burden we have here in Norway. I therefore find it sad that while a large proportion of countries in the world face the financial crisis with tax relief, the red-green government refuses to do so. For example, in Russia and Brazil: 100 pst. of the incentive packages used for tax havens. The number is 79 pst. in Indonesia, 68 pst. in Germany, 45,4 p.m. in Canada, 41.2 p.m. in Australia, 36.7 p.m. in Spain and about the same in the United States, and in Japan it's about 30 pst. I could still have. But here in Norway, it's practically zero, even though we have a search warrant state. Obviously for ideological reasons, the red-green government will not allow business and most people to keep more of their money. But if there's something that's almost as bad, and that also inhibits business and most people, it's the complicated tax, tax and customs legislation we have here in Norway. To illustrate how heavy and extensive the legislation is, just look at this book here. No, this is not the Bible or the Koran, or a great novel. This is the book for Kristin Halvorsen: Equation ABC – a manual published by the Tax Directorate, which is not exactly a manual you can have on the inside pocket. Previous studies show that even tax employees are unable to answer tax questions correctly. And then you expect the average citizen to understand everything, and fill in the billing correctly. Not even employees of the Customs and Charges Directorate always respond correctly to the sole proprietor. However, if the trader or a regular taxpayer does not know the tax law of the fingertips, and makes a mistake, the large fines, high penalties and perhaps in the worst case prison sentences are difficult. Now, obviously, the Norwegian tax system has become so complicated that it has become a separate master's degree in tax law, with a total of 432 hours of education divided over three years – probably the only country in the world that has it. Is it intended that all entrepreneurs who will be successful here in Norway should attend this study or that any trader should at least employ someone who has attended this study? We should ask ourselves that question. And not only that -- we have the customs tariff, almost as thick as this book here, fortunately not as big, but with a lot of what I call customs duty, illogical and old-fashioned customs, different customs rates on different products, even different customs rates on equal products, different customs rates, a little depending on when of the year and whether you take the goods across the border. We have several examples of companies and producers here in Norway, which are large export-oriented industry and which are struggling with this. So that the socialist government hasn't cleaned this up in the four years you've had the chance, I think it's a hell of a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1791	It's obvious when we hear the posts, that we're in a little different mode, I think, depending on what we're going to do next year. The central party's participation in the centre-left government, which I will call our government, has been building the whole country by creating, and then sharing. Well-developed welfare schemes are the result of active public interaction, with strong business and organisations and people. Value creation must ensure both public and individual economic foundations that provide security for tomorrow. It is the aim of the Centre Party that all those with a working capacity should be helped through various measures into the labour market, not only in time rises, but also during economic downturns. Work is the most important action that can lead people out of poverty. Norway is better equipped to deal with the international financial crisis we are now in, than many other countries. We have focused on good, modern and coherent regulation of the financial sector, and we are actively applying the rule of action. But it's naive to think that the crisis we hear about, and see, will not hit stronger in 2010 – because it will. But at the same time, we have the privilege of having the opportunity to meet a cyclical downturn with countermeasures. This possibility will continue to be managed wisely by the Centre Party for the benefit of people even in the next major period. So to another crisis, and it's about the energy crisis. We have an energy consumption in our country that is not sustainable, and the Central Party believes it is important to bring Norway from fossil to renewable energy society. Key policy-making objectives are reducing energy consumption and producing more clean energy. In the renewable energy field, the government statement, which has been guided by the Government, is clearly offensive. But I think it's important to say that we haven't come far enough. Low energy prices do not stimulate enough to invest in alternative energy sources, and I believe that the Government needs to use more new and more powerful instruments to boost bioenergy, wind, solar, wave and tide power. The centre party will meet the challenges ahead with responsibility so that it can be built in a sustainable way. That's why in the Central Party we really want to work for the Government to have a parliamentary basis that will enable it to continue for the next major period. Then it just remains, even if the time has come, to say thank you to colleagues for great years here at Stortinget. I also want to thank employees, because the house works in such a way that we, as big-scale representatives, always feel that those who are here, are here for us to have the best possible everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1810	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1813	Let me start with a little heart attack. I have observed this debate as many other debates in this House for many years, and this revised debate does not differ in this way from the many others – but perhaps at one point: I experience a description of reality from some, especially from the Progress Party, which is beyond what is a reality. If you listen to what these representatives actually say, you'd think you were living in a society packed with poverty and misery. It's not that there aren't many things here in our society that need to be corrected, and it's hard times, many lose work. This makes the government do what it can to try to do something about it. But if you describe Norwegian society in this way, how do you describe a society that is really in trouble? Then there are no words in the dictionary to describe how misery and poverty actually are. There is a call that can be given at the tame of a long political life to those who are going to continue to have posts here in the hall. Describing reality to recognize it was Trygve Bratteli's great mantra in his time to explain how the Workers' Party won the Hegemony in Norwegian society. There's something to remember, to describe a society in a way that makes you recognize it, is a good thing. If you do, you can also lift the policy – not lower the policy, as I see it, is the main task of the Progress Party in this debate, as in many other debates. The reason I took the floor was that I should support a minority comment from the opposition. I don't have a habit to do that. Because of a lot of work in the committee, I understand, the minority has a note about aeronautical training that our government is not in. I understand that it's because you're afraid to pick up bills from the different government councils. I know there's a real fear among state councils. But let me tell the government that I think it should ignore that there is no majority for this remark. It makes sense to note how aviation training can be established in Norway. We need aeronautical training, we have many competent professional environments, and I think it is just as important that we have aeronautical training in Norway as we have nurse and teacher training. It's an important growth industry, it means important jobs, and we have the competent professional community that will be able to do this. Now I'm not saying which part of the country this should be in, we can come back to. But my starting point is that I think the government should start that work to find out how to obtain competent aviation training in Norway and build on the good professional environments we have. We started in Tromsø, and we can start elsewhere in Norway. That would be wise, too. Let me conclude by saying that I have had the pleasure of being on this pulpit many times during my 16 years here at Stortinget. The size is an amazing job, as many have said. It's a great privilege to spend your life on politics and building society on. It's been a great privilege to be in the last four years while we've been in government, where we're building our society on. In these difficult times for our part of the world, we are still able to expand our society. Many of our neighbouring countries now, because of the difficult times, are working on building societies, building welfare systems, etc., because they don't have money. Fortunately, we are in a privileged situation because of a wise government and wise disposals over many years. We are able to build society despite difficult times. It is a great privilege to have been involved in building Norway further into this period. I hope that wise politicians and wise voters will give us the opportunity to further build society even in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1826	A new report on organised crime is a new reminder of the enormous challenges we face in the fight against this crime. The police director is clear that this is also a matter of resources. The right’s repeated warnings that police operating budgets have not kept track of the tasks have been rejected each time by the Minister of Justice. But the truth is that the Norwegian police are on the heels, and the police districts are hesitant to tackle organized crime because the issues are often very resource-intensive and go beyond other tasks. We cannot open the country to criminal gangs and drug networks coming here to make quick money with little risk of being taken. The political legacy after four years of red-green rule is a police not on the offensive. In fact, we have more serious crime and less ability to solve matters. This government can beat the table with higher admissions to the police high school, but this government is at the same time responsible for the political crisis and for the conflict with the police on, among other things. new working time agreement. The police are weakened, the processing time increases, the percentage of information goes down, and Norway is the arena of increasingly sophisticated international organised crime. The tapes are the ones that are hit, whether they are businesses or individuals. In its alternative budgets, the right has proposed over 700 million. More to the police, because the country needs a stronger police force. The right has also proposed a wide-ranging police study to see crime trends, methods and resources in the context and to provide the Storting with a better basis for dimensioning the police of the future. Despite the negative development of crime, the red-greens voted down the proposal. The right-hand side is now proposing another 72 million. to employ more civilians and to strengthen police operational budgets. The right is concerned with the existence of the local police force and the provision of police services to the public where they live. Therefore, the Right is strongly critical that the Government halves the number of passport offices and relieves the local borrower of tasks. The right has been actively involved in the establishment of regional children’s housing and is very surprised that the five houses in operation, in their first and second years of operation, are struggling economically with operating conditions that place a clear damper on the activity. The right is challenging the Minister of Justice to clean up immediately and propose a new $3 million. kr to strengthen the operation of children’s homes. The right also meets the creation of a children’s home in Oslo in 2009, which the Stortinget has foreseen and adopted. People's trust in the police is falling because the police are perceived to be absent. It is a great paradox that a government that says it wants to spend a lot of money on major tasks, the police do not have on the list of tasks that are large enough. The right is serious. We want a stronger police force in the fight against crime. And we want a police force that is both able to take everyday crime and put an end to organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1847	Lars Korvald, former Prime Minister and also representative of the Eastfold Christian People's Party here at Stortinget, gave me advice on the election campaign interview in 2005: ensure the next generation line, next generation. It was a wise advice Lars Korvald gave, a good advice that I have tried to live by as an environmental and climate politician. In 2006, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change informed us of the status of our globe. The Peace Prize winner Al Gore said, "Our planet has a fever." Pachauri, the head of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said, "Make the difference that you want for the future. In the revised announcement, the Government announces that they will stop the acquisition process for CO2 management on Kårstø, a gas power plant that, according to the Soria Moria declaration, would have CO2 management in place during this year. It's a breach of promise we've been familiar with for a long time. However, the Government’s decision in the revised national budget creates further uncertainty as to whether the Government intends to follow up clean-up on Kårstø. This merges into the series of government promises, including violations of good environmental and climate traditions. The notified energy message was scanted. The government has chosen not to provide a notice on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state in the current session, which has been done in recent years. The government has decided that Climate Change 2020, which will be a follow-up to the Climate Change Agreement, will be delivered after the election. This comes at the top of a number of areas in the climate agreement where the Government does not follow up — let me just mention a few examples: the climate action plan, the national strategy for power generation from sea mills and other marine energy sources, the conversion of renewable energy support schemes that facilitate increased deployment in the same size as the green certificate scheme would have provided, and the action plan for the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources to heating. The list could have been longer. Emission reductions in the order of magnitude prescribed by the climate agreement require action and a targeted policy over time. There is a great deal of distance between words and action from the Government in this field. Yesterday’s — or night’s — decision on Goliath shows that we have an even greater gap between word and action. A policy for the next generation is a good environmental policy – but it requires that we take the individual decisions seriously and that we work in line with this slogan. The Christian People's Party is going to elections on a policy for the next generation – which is a good environmental and climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1866	Today, the majority in this room will again vote against opposition proposals for a VAT compensation scheme for voluntary activities. The opposition has been busy in this matter since the Government of St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, indicate that this promise from the Soria Moria declaration should also be honoured. The red-green parts themselves have the direction in this matter. We want to go further than the opposition. The government has now invited Freewill Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association to participate in a selection to develop a detailed VAT compensation scheme. This Assembly will be presented with proposals for the introduction of a scheme with effect from 1 January 2010 in connection with the treatment of the 2010 State Budget. The Government Party is certain that the scheme should cover both goods and services, that it should be a voluntary scheme, and that it should be associated with the registration of compensation amounts in the voluntary register, with the possibility of voluntary stencils, i.e. effectively available to both small and large organisations which are not subject to VAT. This means that it must be administratively simple both for volunteering and for the state. In addition, the Government and the voluntary organisations have set the example for the further selection work that, in the case of VAT compensation on investment in installations, it is to be resolved outside and as an addition to the new VAT compensation scheme. Here the Government acknowledges that the proceeds of these investments have already been incorporated into the national accounts – no one builds these facilities without adapting the organisation to the law so that one gets the VAT back. The solution to this issue shall apply from 1 January 2010. The red-green part is still a horsehead before the opposition. We overcomply with the Soria Moria statement also at this point. This is a major and important matter for Dugnads-Noreg, the Center Party and the Government. A VAT compensation scheme will have an enormous impact on volunteering throughout the country. The centre party made choices on three issues in 2005: better local economy, better transport and a boost for culture and volunteering. We have delivered in municipalities, on transportation and on culture for these four years, and for the Center Party it was important to put in place the last piece we promised our constituents, simply a lift for volunteerism. As a centre party, it is gratifying to note that almost exactly what the outcome of the elections is, there will be an overwhelming majority in this Chamber to meet the requirement from the voluntary effort to eliminate VAT burden on the voluntary enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1882	From my first day in politics to my last day in life, I'm going to believe that knowledge is power. I'm always going to believe that without giving knowledge to people, democracy will be confused, and we won't be able to create the business that is not yet born. Therefore, it is so incomprehensible to me that we have a red-green government that is unable – within the amount of money available – to close what is a hole in the funding of higher education institutions, where there is still a shortage of 300-400 million. kr. And it's understandable to me that you can't take the research with you. It's a pleasure for me – at the tame of my time at Stortinget – to know that there was an overall committee that stopped some sentences that would mean that you would start to target basic research. If you had targeted basic research, we would never have had Darwin, we wouldn't have Newton, and we probably wouldn't have had anyone who could have thought of any thoughts you couldn't measure at the moment. For the Left, it has always been that since we believe that knowledge is power, we have consistently – and also during this period of ageing – prioritised putting research, higher education and school first. We have done the same in this budget. We have put research and higher education first, with approx. 900 million. together, which we have re-prioritized within the framework. I was here the other day in a debate on the research report, which became very strange. Usually you have to compete in politics. Part of this competition was lost because the government side said that we, who were on the opposition side, had not even made a single proposal. Is it true that we, who have kept on making proposals, should not have made a single proposal? I felt almost a moment that we had walked into Alice in Adventurerland -- a psychedelic moment. But then I decided to do what all the left people I met early had taught me: don't let you be shyer about those who are trying to talk you away, and don't let you be shyer about those who are trying to mist. Keep in mind that politics is ultimately about believing that you can choose, and it's about believing that you can give priority. So that's why I, along with the Left, have been involved in prioritizing research, research, teachers, teachers and teachers. So I'm going to use the last minute to thank me, but I'm going to do it my way: first, I'm going to say a thousand thanks to the voters of the South Throne Team who, in spite of all the odds, sent me to this house 32 years ago. Then I would like to say a thousand thanks to all the voters in Oslo who – despite quite a lot – sent me here 12 years ago. Then I would like to say to my colleagues: it is incredibly important that the Stortinge as an institution is defended. It's incredibly important at a time when you're trying to run for big business representatives and write them down, and write them away, that all the parties and all the representatives defend the Storting as an institution. Democracy itself requires the Storing to be such an institution. It is incredibly important for all those who are going to do the practical work of this house in the coming years that no depositors are being reduced to state-owned bureaucrats who are becoming so preoccupied with filling out forms that they are unable to think of an independent idea other than the last note from an intelligent adviser. I'd like to say it this way: I've lived with intelligent advisors. I'm still doing it. But it is the representatives who must be free and representative. We are in a dangerous time phase now, trying to introduce the idea that the fine – which is something quite different from law and justice – replaces law and justice. When the finch moves in and replaces law and law, it becomes so detailed that the freedom of people and representatives to create something is confusing. These are my destinies: Be proud. Defend this house. Defend the ombudsman role. Defending that you're elected to the People's Party. Let's not get jammed into detail bureaucracy. Recognize the difference between law and justice and fineness, President. [[Applause from the gallery and the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1899	It is not allowed to applaud, either from the gallery or in the hall – just so it is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1902	It is not easy to take the word after such a strong closing post, but I try anyway. The Christian People's Party believes that more resources are needed for the maintenance of roads, and for the tribal network in particular. We have proposed this on a number of occasions, including: in our current alternative draft budget, and in the consideration of the national transport plan. The road network does not meet the demand for current traffic volumes and safety is far from adequate. There must be room for the State Road Service to intensify maintenance work as early as this year, so that more accident points can be rectified. In particular, E6 through the northernmost counties – or even throughout the country – needs large security measures. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to increase the maintenance budget of the State Road Administration by 104 million. kr in the revised national budget. 4 of the millions have been earmarked for the road in Glombergan, between Ørnes and Glomfjord in Meløy municipality. We don't get an efficient and secure transport network if we don't do well for the soft road users, walking and cycling, not to talk about all the kids and young people who travel in traffic. Therefore, it is important to have many more walking and cycling routes. It is particularly important in the urban areas where children and young people travel. The Christian People's Party will establish a state reward scheme for walking and cycling. The purpose of the scheme shall be to influence the planning of transport in municipalities and counties. It shall act as an incentive to better facilitate walking and cycling. Christian People's Party proposes 100 million. to this end, as a start-up appropriation on the current year’s budget. The provision of organised transport for disabled persons varies greatly from state to state. In particular, it is important to strengthen the provision of services to those with an additional need for individually organised transport, such as: blind and faint. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the TT regime, and we will come back to it in the 2010 budget. So some words about train signalling, Mercury. Work on putting in place an approved signalling system on the Mosjø-Bodø route is greatly delayed. The government has purchased an unauthorised system that is unlikely to be approved for use. At the top of it all, the government is now proposing, due to problems with Mercury, to move 100 million. kr from the Northern Railways for the overall operational and maintenance tasks of the Railway Agency. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, these means must be used where they were meant, on the Northern Railway. In addition, we're proposing another 25 million. kr for the construction of crossing tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1921	The Minister of State, the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of the Municipal Council for an hour ago the Government announced long interaction reform. That there is a need for interaction in health and social services, all of them are a few. It's not controversial. The challenge is how to put it into practice. The government's interaction reform will not solve what's the biggest problem, namely the lack of labour in the sector. The left will put in place a study debt forgiveness scheme for all health workers who want to work in the primary care service. If you want to cover the need for labour, you have to choose health education for every third student who leaves the secondary school. Left thinks we need strong incentives to be able to provide good care, not least for a large and ageing population in the future. The problem with the Government's interaction reform is that it does not take the step fully and suggests action in the municipal structure. We in the Left are very few in intentions, and we are some in the direction of an interaction reform for health. But as I said, the problem is that one does not take the step fully and has a more concrete idea that several of the smallest municipalities have to be merged. With larger and more robust municipalities and more professionals, we can provide more and better treatment and care in the community of people. Unless we believe this reform, for which the Minister of Health is particularly responsible, will land on the coal, and there will be a reform that will be no better than the blessed Nav reform. I was at the press conference earlier today. This means that, in particular, the municipal minister co-consults. Law-enforcement agreements between municipalities and health businesses were also mentioned. Communitys have a little interest in it before, but we have little experience with it. As far as I know, there is only one community in our country today, and that is Levanger-Verdal. We in the left don't think this is the way to go. We also have inter-municipal enterprises. The municipal minister said that the municipal sector has an enormous experience with these. That's right. In the 430 municipalities, there are, with an average of 14 cooperation measures per municipality. a total of more than 6000 enterprises. There's a lot of them. But the point is that all these myriads of cooperation actions undermine democracy, and that's a bad solution, as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1934	It is not easy to follow the presentation of the interaction reform on TV and at the same time have an overview of the list of speakers, so I was a little disappointed, unfortunately. Health is an important theme and a theme that the Government has clearly not taken seriously. For the last four years, we have had a period of increased health cows and cut in the appropriations for rehabilitation. Most recently, there has been an action on the outside of Stortinget where rehabilitation institutions and patient organisations have shown their strong dissatisfaction. We in the Progress Party have taken this seriously. We've added 500 million to our alternative budget. To strengthen rehabilitation both here in Norway and abroad. With regard to the appropriations for the psychiatry, the escalation was completed last year. Psychiatry has so many shortcomings that there was no reason to end the escalation. The progress party has wanted to continue with earmarked funds and has strengthened this in revision, by 100 million. kr. We believe that it is disclaimer to do nothing about the major deficiencies. It is absolutely necessary to follow-up with earmarked funds and concrete measures, as well as renting places in private, so that those in need of day-to-day treatment can do so. As far as the diabetes plan is concerned, I heard a lot from the Council of State about the importance of prevention. We've had a diabetes plan for three years, and the government has followed up minimally on funds. It's so small that it doesn't Monastery at all. There are now more undiagnosed than ever. Prevention is slow. There are not diabetes teams in all health companies. There are twice as many amputations of bone this year as there were three years ago, and problems with kidney disease continue to increase. I have now understood – and at the latest today, when I heard the Council of State present the interaction reform – that the responsibility for all this should be shifted down to the municipalities and the municipalities' framework funding. Whoever thinks it's going to be better, I'd like to talk to you in ten years. This is a discharge. In the case of lowthreshold services, these are also not established, as the situation is. The municipalities will have a worse and worse economy. So money will not be transferred in line with the tasks that the municipality has. It is quite dramatic when more and more municipalities have to threaten their inhabitants with property taxes in order to offer entirely ordinary well-being goods, such as: nursing homes and schooling. This cannot continue. The progress party has, therefore, strengthened particularly the care of the cattle, by 100 million. kr. Municipalities now have very large social assistance expenditure. We think it has to be taken seriously, by transferring money, and not just saying that one should do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1951	It was the pleasure – I don't know if I can say it this way – to hear a new lecture by the Prime Minister about a little elementary social economy that made me speak. He described the passage of the crisis almost exactly on the millimeter. Anyone who has read a little social economy knows how difficult it is and how difficult it is to dose correctly. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Right is being attacked for a slightly more expansive policy. In fact, I follow Andersen in his description, that developments in the labour market are worrying, that there is a greater risk that incentives are too small than too large, and that the measures are wrong. I also heard the Prime Minister say in a reply that he would not and would not give tax relief. Then I begin to wonder if the dogmas are much stronger than the realities of Norwegian policy. We know that property taxes are a direct attack on equity in enterprises and in the workplace. If there's anyone affected by this, then District Norway, which is totally dependent on the small and locally owned companies, with, among other things, family ownership. Another adverse effect is this with black work. I stand here with a rather interesting article that was in the VG on Friday 12 June. One of the headings is: «Almost half of us have purchased black work. And the number is increasing." It is a young consensual couple, who will be anonymous, who will be interviewed. They say, among other things:\t\t You “We have paid for the services of car mechanics, electricians, plumbers and snowblowers.” And on the other hand, “Instead of waiting 14 days at a car repair shop, I can rather get the car fixed the same evening at a much lower price.” And then they end up saying, “We see that there is a problem if everyone does, but in our small world we experience that we already pay so much taxes and taxes that we have no bad conscience at all.” So it's saying a consensual couple, and it's based on half of the Norwegian population adapting to it this way. Then we have a problem. This was precisely the reason why the dynamic fiscal policy in the last period provided substantial revenue for the public, while at the same time lowering the tax burden. We have also had proposals during this period to go through the dynamic aspects of fiscal policy. Of course, it was downhearted. When dogmas become more important than reality, there is a danger in Norwegian policy. This government has moved on to an enormous boom. It's probably been covering some of the weaknesses in our system, but they're asking if it's going to go just as well in the future. That's why we should get a different government after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1986	I was going to talk a little bit about higher education and research. Then I sat and listened to the representative Dørum, who made a post here. When Dørum was up here talking about higher education and research, I thought that I really didn't have to take the word, because it was a very good post. It was also a emotional doorway we saw here for the last time in the Great Britain’s pulpit. I think I can assure Dørum that this is not the last time we hear his words from this pulpit. I am sure that many representatives in the future will refer to many wise words from this wise man! Investment in knowledge and research is the most crucial factor in strengthening Norway out of the crisis. It is precisely therefore incomprehensible that the Government has left no place in the knowledge and research of the historical good times that we have set behind us, and when the need for more competence in the future is as clear as it is. With increased tax revenue and increased use of money from the Pension Fund, the Government has had a significantly larger scope of action and many billions more to distribute. There have been many nice words from this government, especially in the field of research and higher education. But nice words are also all that it has in this area. I do not doubt that the intention of the Council of State is good, but unfortunately it does not help when the intentions are not followed up with the action and the allocated kroner. The last budgetary procedure during this period is also the last possibility for the Government to correct the impression of the historic break. Unfortunately, we have to find out today that they are not using this opportunity. Time and again, the current government has used every opportunity to state clearly that research and higher education are not a priority area. I was therefore surprised when the Prime Minister today stood on the Spokesman's chair and said that the appropriations for higher education have increased massively. It's a description of reality that I think many of us don't recognize, especially those who represent the higher education institutions in the country. Research and higher education is an investment for the future. This is the solution for Norway to emerge from the crisis. It's just a government change – with a strong Right – that can secure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e1999	Actually, I wasn't going to take the floor, but since the Council of State chose not to answer any of my questions, I feel the need to take the floor. Now I see that the Council of State has gone. Then I hope that she has returned to the department, and that she intends to answer the ambulance driver who would like to have answers from the Council of State to their questions. When we talk about road safety and say that we are concerned about road safety, I actually think it is a big problem that some people who are in traffic experience a completely different everyday life than us, especially those who are driving a road vehicle. There's a problem where you put up so-called middle parts, which are some small things of 9.5 cm. So they're stunned and they're still poking around the road because someone's been driving them. So they're not stuck. The only thing I registered that the Council of State replied was that this was professionally justified by the State Road Administration, and that was the technical grounds on which it was based. That's why you would have gone into these solutions. In fact, I find it rather regrettable that they say that the reasons of the State Road Service have been taken into account, when we know that employees in some emergency situations are not allowed to tell us what their daily lives are like in traffic. Because that's actually the case. They've been given a mouthpiece by other state agencies. So they're not being heard by those who say that these are good solutions, when they're definitely not good traffic-proof solutions. I really hope that the Council of State will take this with her, and that she will make sure that she cleans it up, that someone removes these middle parts, so that not what was supposed to be a road safety measure becomes a traffic trap and a traffic hazard for those who are moving in traffic. Then I also want to say a little bit about unemployment, because there are a lot of people who have talked about it. Heikki Holmås thought it could get up in 130 000. Yesterday, MEF had a presentation of the situation for its members. They have had a survey showing how much capacity is now available to build roads and infrastructure in this country. There is a lot of free capacity, and the available capacity is increasing in the next 12 months. In fact, it's likely to be rapidly increasing as well. It clearly shows that even with a lag of 19 billion kroner by the end of 2009 it is both available capacity and there is increasing maturity. There are two reasons why you should actually start doing something. When the government says it wants to bet on transportation, it is amazing that it will not support the proposals of the Progress Party to get unemployed people to work. At the same time, we will reduce the downturn on the road network in Norway by giving an extra DKK 1 billion to the tribal and national roads and an extra SEK 1.5 billion to the maintenance and upgrading of the county road network, which can really get people to work, and will ensure that the downturn on our road network is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2012	We have a backward government and a backward staggering majority. We have a government that is significantly more concerned with the game of politics than with providing political solutions for people. There is a significant degree of self-satisfaction associated with today's majority, a self-satisfaction with everything that has become so much better. The problem is, in a number of areas, we're going in the wrong direction. There has been an alliance, especially within sections of SV, to try to create a fear linked to a civil government's environmental policy. But the truth is that the environmental policy of the bourgeois parties will be forward-looking, it will be clear and set some clear objectives to be implemented, and not based on a breach of promises. It's based on a climate deal, which we've been able to find cheaply. It is the climate agreement Erik Solheim, who has the opportunity to promote internationally, and who has made him as the Council of State, reaping a lot of good things. But that's not what the government proposed in its scheme, which has reaped good words. No, it's what the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left got through to the Government, which has ended up with an offensive document, a document that has to become much more offensive in the next period. In the renewable sector, we have a government that beats the chest and says that we have the world's best renewable resources, but at the same time does not do anything to make use of the same resources. A new civil government will use renewable resources. We have enormous opportunities in carbon capture and storage. In order for Norway to be able to contribute internationally in the context of climate change, it is important that we actually use the technology that is being created, or could have been created to a greater extent, both in Kårstø and Mongstad. We have to get back to the front, and we have to have a government that dares to bet. As far as biodiversity is concerned, we all agree that we must stop the loss of it, but the problem is that the loss is accelerating, and the government is doing almost nothing related to forest protection. We know that of the 3,000 species that are listed in red, about 1,500 of these are in forest areas. The 1500 have received less protection with today's government than with previous governments. A smaller part of the state budget is now going to forest protection than under, for example, the previous government. As regards research and development in the environmental field, we see that the Government has reduced the ambitions for technology development in new renewable energy and technology development in terms of our own emission reductions. And in the case of allowances, it's a scandal that this government has been involved in selling 13.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2036	Many of the contributions in the final phase have been made by representatives who have made their last interventions in the Chamber. The posts of the red-green representatives have also been marked by a desire to tell the story of the red-green government. I take that as a good sign, because this meeting is historic: it's the last big meeting with a red-green majority. Fortunately, for the autumn there will be a choice, and then the voters will make it very necessary for the red-green representatives to start writing the story of the red-green government. One of the reasons the voters are going to replace this government is the way it handles the increasing unemployment. Every day 30 companies go bankrupt. Nav's forecasts indicate that 166 families will be affected by unemployment every day. That's the big and central question of this election. In reality, there are two clear options to meet this challenge: government policy, which does not work, and Right policy, with other solutions. Many people in these days get the sad message that they lose the job, but a lot of people also experience that they do not lose the job, because owners and employees locally on the company find good solutions to prevent leave and to prevent dismissals. The most commonly used solution is that employees and management agree that they should not have an increase in pay, agree that they may fall slightly in pay, in order to prevent a colleague from losing the job or getting a permit. This is the simple approach taken by most enterprises, in cooperation between employees and employers, in a difficult situation. So simple is also the Right proposal for a reduced employer’s fee. A person can probably find many who have economic considerations about whether this works or not. Our consideration is that it is the instrument used by small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. It is a tangible tool for employees and management to take immediate action. Why should the state not be in the fissure layer used by employees and management in the companies around the country to prevent colleagues from losing their jobs, for colleagues to be outlawed? It's the Right Solution, and I think that very many people who work in the small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway agree with that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2045	It is approaching closure time, and it may be close — at the tame of the last holm walk between government and opposition during this four-year period — to add a small reflection on the development of the relationship between the executive and the legislative power in Norway. I have three periods of seagoing service, and only during the three periods have I seen a development that involves a rather severe displacement. We were last told before the elections that Norway had a desperate need for a majority government, because there was a desperate need for greater predictability, greater degree of clean-up, better order of all things. We got a majority government, and it has certainly been more unpredictable about the exercise of power than in a very long time. It is linked to the fact that synthetic majority governments are not real majority governments. For this reason, they consume most of their political energy to snort necessary compromises in the government quarters, so that there is no reopening of political thinking activities in the Storting, at least not from the groups of the government parties. There is no good development for the Norwegian state system. In a way, it's symbolic that in the same moment that the Storting splits up after four years, the Government launches a big message, knowing that this big thing is never going to get in touch with the big message at all, and knowing that there's no certainty of any future big thing is going to deal with that big message. Because there will be a government change, that big message will only have been a general election campaign document, and will be archived as used election documents become. The timing is an almost outspoken, demonstrative proclamation by the Government that it considers the Storting to be completely redundant. I think maybe you can sum up the experience of majority parliamentaryism in this period like this: if we get one synthetic majority rule of this kind, it'll be out with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2059	Uff, it sounded like hell.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2062	That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2067	The previous speaker's posts were a good one. One of the issues that I needed to raise was the contributions of the representative, Lodes, on VAT and voluntary action, which had already been collected as a final orderly reform that would take place long before the Stortinget was allowed to take its hands on it. I would like to remind you that the Storting in this ageing period has given the red-green more opportunities to fulfill its promise from Soria Moria. Now we have come a long step closer to the press conference on what is to come. We've got an adjusted promise, and we've got a sample with a mandate. But there are still a number of unresolved questions that will be further worked on. The sample to be set down shall provide a final solution and shall be phased in gradually. But what is my criticism of what's on the table is that there's still talk of a framework system, and that means that the VAT costs are to be covered by a pot of DKK 1.2 billion, which is for distribution. Now we can experience what we've seen with the service tax system: not all organizations get, because the money's spent. Some of us do not keep their last post in this room today. Some of us are going to be there and follow this matter carefully. It is appropriate to remind the representative Lode that a choice will be made for the autumn and that the Stortinget will implement the reform. My recommendation is to do as a Christian People's Party: don't call off the fight for VAT exemptions for non-governmental organisations, we don't believe it until we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2076	This is the last day of a four-year period, and I feel the need to comment on some of the things that have been developing over these four years. When the current government entered the government offices, it was among other things. with a violent ideological crusade against what they called privatization, and which I would call a crusade against sensible solutions that help more people get help faster in our society. The consequences of this cruise we saw quite quickly. Today there have been demonstrations outside here related to rehabilitation. We felt that place in place in the rehabilitation sector and institution after institution was laid down. We saw that the chaos in child protection came up because the government thought it was good to cut out good child protection because they were private, and build up very expensive, specialized, but too few children's homes offered by the state. We have seen that we have increased health cows because this government has allergy to using private. At the same time, this government has been responsible for the most massive privatisation of healthcare that has ever been. The number of individuals and enterprises that have taken out private health insurance for their employees has increased by 134 pst. during this period of government. There is a clear signal of one thing: people in this country have made sure when they saw that red-green policy did not work. They have made sure that they can receive treatment. However, massive privatisation is actually the consequence of combating the freedom of choice of individuals by allowing public schemes and forms of financing to be used to make use of private offerings. It's an ideological distinction that I'm sure is going to make a new course for the fall, because people are listed over that kind of thing. Another thing that people are also a little engrossed about, or at least that many wonder about, is how the development of the public debate in Norway is. It is exemplified by the Minister of Finance's answer. When she was challenged about democracy and the role of the Stortinge earlier today, she replied that this government is working in a different way – they involve the Stortinget in advance. No, you don't involve the Storting in advance, you involve the government parties in advance. It's not the open democratic debate that makes it possible to take corrections when the rest of society around it sees something. No, it's actually the policy of closed rooms, and in the field by area, we've seen that there's become more of the closed rooms under this government, because you're so finely negotiated in terms of compromises. It's also an area I think the next big deal needs to learn from this big deal, and it's having a completely different way of involving the public debate, taking corrective action and making changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2091	This is probably the last debate in Stortinget in this period of the big lines. In this way, you might have to be careful with getting down to the level of detail. But at the same time, the big lines consist of many details set in a certain system. That's why I'm going to point out some of those that I find interesting, not least those that are related to the justice sector. We are approaching a campaign, and we have a government that is still in one – yes, what should we call it – warlike condition with the Norwegian police. We have a Norwegian police who are running idle, who are perceived to be absent, and we have a government that obviously does not have the ability to take on the consequences for the population. In other words, we have a situation where the population is more or less hostage to a power struggle between the Government and the Norwegian police. That's what I think is sad, and I think it's sad for all those who need help. At the same time, it stands in stark contrast to the showdown that the Government has presented. So you have to do more and do it better, and you think you can do it. I find that interesting, not least given the look-up yesterday about the children's houses and the lack of appropriations for it. In any case, I have not discovered that there are any additional appropriations for the children's houses in the revised version. When I heard the Minister of Justice yesterday say that there would be more appropriations, I think it would have been natural to show the power of action and take it into account here. That hasn't happened. In other words, the children’s houses and the bet there appear more or less as a political gimmick without substance. You want to show action, you create something, but you don't give the employees the money to do their job. It's at my discretion to keep those who need help, too fool, which I think is not very acceptable. The Norwegian police are running out. I realized that Arne Johannessen is positive, but I also realized that he is aware that some solution is not near at hand. Yesterday I registered with great interest that the chief police officer in Norway, police director Killengren, said that she lacked clear signals from Stortinget. With respect to reporting, I have realized that if there is anything the Storting has been busy since the early 1990s, it is what kind of police we want, and what the police should give priority to. There has not been a one-sided focus on processing time, as it was produced yesterday, but it has been about getting help when you need it. This could be true of children and young people, and of the close relationships and other factors that today’s government and former governments have shown. But if it's true that today's police director hasn't brought it along, I'm surprised that today you're choosing to extend the year-end position as police director for another three years. Then the red-greens have talked about the cooperation possibilities on the civil side. When I see the proposals in the justice sector, it will be a challenge for the other civil parties, but I am sure that if the situation changes after the elections, it will be possible to achieve the necessary lifting also in this sector, for the most part for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2106	I have a feeling that the red-green parties, perhaps especially the Workers' Party, do not want to debate what we should discuss today, namely the strong increase in unemployment. Every day there are about 30 companies going bankrupt. VG could tell that 51,000 companies are on the edge of the dump, and that almost 92,000 jobs this year can be lost. When the Right has proposed to lower the tax on having people in work, the answer from the Workers' Party is that no, now the Right is beginning to approach the Advance Party, or that no, this is irresponsible. But a willingness to enter into the political debate does not exist in the Labour Party. There is a great difference between the Right and the Advance Party in economic policy. Where the Progress Party increases public expenditure, the Right reduces public expenditure. Where the Progress Party primarily gives tax relief to individuals, we lower taxes on businesses and jobs. I think it is quite incredible that the Labour Party in this debate comes and says that the Right's proposals will weaken competitiveness. And it says the party that is responsible for reducing competitiveness every year for four years! It concerns cost competitiveness. In addition, taxes on enterprises and jobs have been increased, making them more uncertain during a crisis. We also know that if you look at competitiveness in a wider sense and include how easy it is to run small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, it has also been weakened by the red-green government. The reality is that the Labour Party does not want to enter into the debate itself. We know that small businesses want Right-wing proposals. And what was the answer from the Norwegian Industry when the State Secretary of the Workers' Party, Geir Axelsen, of the Ministry of Finance, claimed that the Right's proposal would weaken competitiveness? Yes, he says to the Finanzavisen that it is wrong to argue that a lower employer’s fee weakens competitiveness, rather it is possible to discuss whether the measure is appropriate. – And companies believe that this proposal is correct. But you might imagine that the red-greens don't think that unemployment will increase as much as the SSB and the Norwegian Bank say. No well, then you get to live in the faith, but then at least it's a good insurance policy, and that's an easily reversible measure. I believe that the reality is that the red-green parties, especially the Workers' Party, have committed themselves to a promise in the Soria Moria declaration to increase taxes, and then it is not appropriate to come up with the measure that you know will have an effect, namely to lower the tax on having people in work. Here the dogmatic approach is to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2124	I have been listening to the debate all this day, and I must say that when I have listened to the speaker of the opposition, I have made a great discovery. I have discovered a completely different and new society outside this house than what I myself have been able to register when I have traveled around my own constituency and elsewhere in the country. I don't think the situation in this society is particularly bad. People are doing very well. We have an increase in the standard of living. In fact, we now have an increase in unemployment, but I remember that Norway is still an island in a sea of unemployment that surrounds us. Is there a situation on the labour market in Sweden with which we should compare? Is that the EU? Is that the United States? What kind of unemployment is what you have in these societies? May I remind you that we have 3 to 3.5 pst. unemployment in Norway today. When the Bondevik II government left the government offices, we had a higher leave in the country than we have today, and a higher leave than the Statistical Central Bureau has predicted that we will get at the end of this year. So the question is, what are the alternatives of the bourgeois parties to this policy? Well, there's one common option, and it's tax havens. It's tax relief that's going to get us out of every problem at all times – whether it's employment, price rise or whatever we're plagued with in the Norwegian economy – more tax relief that we know doesn't work. We don't know that works, because we have experience for that. But what works out is that this year, we're going to deposit NOK 37 billion into the economy to create more activity. We know that's working.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2133	I have no particular desire to prolong the debate. But when Right's fiscal figure takes the floor and at a number of points comes up with unsubstantiated and incorrect claims, this debate cannot end with it as a sort of final line, especially when he comments on the government party and the Labour Party's attitude specifically on the issue of unemployment. Truer claimed in his post that the Labour Party does not want a debate on unemployment. I shall use a parliamentary term: the nominees lack a factual basis. In the main post I had at the beginning of today's debate, one of my main points was that the biggest challenge we have in economic policy now and in the future, is just the far too high unemployment that we have, which unfortunately seems to be able to increase in time to come. It's claim number one from Sanner – which is directly incorrect. Claim number two was that the government party, and the Labour Party in particular, does not have the will to debate the employer's fee, which is Right's weapon number one in this debate. That is also incorrect. I have provided a basis for why we do not use this expensive measure in the fight against unemployment, both in articles and in replies. It's not accurate enough, it's not targeted enough, and it'll give significant economic benefits to companies that don't need it in their work. There is claim number two from Sanner – which is incorrect. The third thing he says is that the explanation of our inaccuracies is that we have bound ourselves to a position to increase taxes. So it is not that the representative Sanner can take the floor and make a postulate, believing that the post office has been given the truth. Truer doesn't have the exact basis for his claim. I thought it would strengthen the political debate on Sanner first briefed on the facts, and then tried to reason on it. I think I could lead both him and the Right on a safer way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2144	I'm almost a little shocked myself that I'm standing here, because I hadn't thought of it. I thought I had kept my last post a few weeks ago, but this became a little sad at the end here. The stork is a fantastic workplace. I want to give praise to all the colleagues and everyone who works here. What are we going to fight about in the election campaign, if the opposition is going to use up all the bad mood now? That's where we're going to run a campaign. What are we doing? Think about all the television routes ahead -- the Norwegian people can enjoy hearing that we're dunking each other in the head with billions and percent, and you said that, I did it, and you did a little bit less than me. That's what we're going to be serving in the future. That's what we're going to do. Can we not agree that we disagree? I'm so simple that I actually believe that all parties will do the very best. We're just a little bit of a disagreement about how we get there. That is what we are discussing. But that it gets so black, I think I'm sad. We who have grown up in a welfare society like the Norwegian have just won the lotto all over. Then we have to be able to buy ourselves a little optimism and believe in the future – and believe that it benefits. All of us sitting here are traveling in our ideology and belief in the future. Let's use that belief and ideology to meet tomorrow's adults and tomorrow's society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2153	I share the enthusiasm and optimism of the last speaker. It's very good in Norwegian society. But it is that the role of the opposition is, in fact, to be socially critical, to be critical of the developments we see in society. We don't go up to the pulpit here to pay homage to every penny that's awarded for any purpose, but we're trying to look at the evolution of society, and what in the long term is the consequences of the policy being pursued. Then it is unfortunately not that it is only positive to report back. Then the representative says Gullvåg that we have 3 pst. unemployment — or at the lower end of it. That's right. But in the same breath he has to add that we have nearly 700,000 people living from public transfers, that is. People who live on social security for different reasons — and then I keep the pensioners out. This represents approximately 25 pst. for all those aged between 18 and 67 who, for some reason, are unable to contribute to the labour market in Norway. There are twice as many in relation to the population as for example. in Sweden, which has a higher unemployment rate. So you could say that it might have been better to have 7-8 pst. unemployment, because if you could recruit from among those on social security schemes, you could have many who applied for a job and who were constantly seeking to contribute to society. So we've built up barriers that make it hard for people to contribute to the world of work. There are different reasons for that too. But to say that this is pink is going to be very wrong. The only reason we have such a society is because we can afford it. We can afford it because we have a lot of money in this country, and then it's easier and easier to grant a check from the state than to make demands on people. That is how it is, and all parties are responsible for this, but it must be possible to point it out. This development has intensified in the last four years with red-green control. You have to admit that. And a common responsibility that all of this great hall and all of the parties have is how to get more people back into productive work, which will bring new revenue to the public so that we can fund the necessary well-being. It's a common problem we have as magnification and as parties. Then one must be able to point it out, instead of standing on this pulpit and hailing the Norwegian model as something quite unique that no one else in the world has understood. But the reason we have this model is because we have extraordinary revenues, and, as the previous speaker said, we've won in Lotto. But it has its price, and we have to point that out. That's why we also need to look at politics and be more critical when we grant ourselves new well-being goods, and not just new welfare goods, but perhaps also in terms of social structure, how we're going to run this society in terms of the organisation of Municipality-Norway and County-Norway, how we're going to organise the entire operation of AS Norway with 4.7 million people. Then we have to be willing to be critical, and not just hail the system and believe that another billion solves all the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2167	When I asked for the floor, it was because the Right fiscal spokesman took a lower employer’s fee. At the top came the statement: it was easily reversible. It is easily reversible for the Right to introduce a reduction of approximately DKK 25 billion in reduced revenues to the State. There is something going on in a situation where what we need is not general schemes, but targeted schemes aimed at where the needs are greatest. It is quite strong to learn that the Right Party does not see that it is the export industry, the industries in international competition, which are most vulnerable, do not see that there is an enormous need for conversion within woodworking, from cheap newspaper paper to renewable energy-based chemicals. Imagine what one could do if one had inserted a fraction of the amount of the necessary conversion that a number of business leaders across our country are screaming for because one sees that one is in a new era, and that one has to have state assistance to make the economy work. What are we going to cut into, when this is so easy to reverse? What can you cut into that it's not so hard to cut in, when you're going to have the 25 billion later? The representative Sanner has hardly any answer to that. It's hardly going to be reversed, it's the Right Plan, because it's the Right Policy to reduce taxes. It shall be invested instead of investing in education, infrastructure and private business conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2178	There was a hint of a little temperature at the tamp of the day. I have to say that the representative Lundtigen does not stop to surprise. Here we've had four years with a government that hasn't had any industrial policy at all in addition to the involvement of state ownership and the company with Smoking and the state buying up. It is a policy that punishes small businesses and private ownership, and it is a unison report about it around from all over Norway. I have to say that I experience it quite frankly on the back of this debate and the session. But I guess not everyone is equally comfortable with this government in these areas either. What made me take the floor was the representative of Gullvåg and others who wanted to go up a little tax debate at the end, and stated that it was documented – I think that was the word he used – that tax legislation does not work, while expenditure on the state budget works. I want to draw a short story. In 2001, we had a change of government. In February 2002, Norway’s Bank’s chief executive said that the Norwegian economy was in disrepute after the Stoltenberg I government. It was necessary to clean up. Interest rose, and unemployment rose. It was two very hard years, when targeted tax reliefs, especially against businesses, were used, and not least led to the removal of the investment tax to make investments in the business world very important. Then came the change of pace in 2003–2004. We got a double of start-ups in these years, among other things. because it was a targeted policy precisely to make it possible. In 2004, we established the 2004 tax level, to which today’s government has committed itself, and, as I understand it, also suggests that they will continue to commit. There is reason to recall that the 2004 level – the tax relief level of the previous government – has been constant during this period and has brought the Norwegian State from 2005 until today an increase in tax revenue of DKK 258 billion. So a properly adapted, targeted tax relief aimed at business has produced results so that the red-green government can spend money for many good purposes, for which they have also received a lot of support. So the representative Gullvåg and others have good reason to thank the fiscal policy of the previous government for the opportunities they have had during this period. So finally, since someone wants to go up a debate on unemployment and what we're going to compare with: from a left-wing perspective, from a liberal perspective, we're committed to seeing individuals in this situation. It is that increasing unemployment, people who lose their jobs against their will, are a huge challenge and a problem. We cannot be pleased that we have lower percentages in Norway than in Sweden. We're always going to fight for individuals who become unemployed to get their work back, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2193	I fully agree that in the fight against unemployment, it is the individuals involved. Therefore, we do not compare ourselves with Sweden in terms of our political ambitions to keep unemployment as low as possible. Our slogan is «Work for all». It has been the slogan of the left and the trade union movement all the way, precisely because unemployment is of great importance not only to the economy – but because being full-time and not having a job, also means that a lack of a social community. It is important to see the individuals involved in the fight against unemployment. That is our main focus in economic policy. But I want to make a few punctuations in relation to the tax proposals and the tax debate. It becomes too much simplification when Lars Sponheim later feels as if there is a tax policy from the previous bourgeois government that is the reason why revenue in the treasury has increased significantly during a boom. It's not gonna work. Nor is it possible to discuss taxes with such rough masks that one later as if the left-hand side believes that every tax is good, while the right-hand side believes that every tax is stupid. This is about finding an effective tax system that works according to purpose, which distributes both fairly and ensures that we have money in the cash register. We are now pursuing the most offensive policy to combat unemployment when we compare ourselves with all other countries. The OECD average is a budget impulse of 1.7. We're at 3. In the budget, we have increased it from 0.7 to the 2.4 package of measures to the 3rd revision. It's extremely offensive. The right adds further to a total, and the right cost, the annual impact, of the Right's proposal is $17.5 billion. It is stated in Højre’s own note on page 12 in the vote on the revised national budget, and it is quality assured by the Ministry of Finance. The right number is $17.5 billion, if you put it on top. The government has assessed whether we should reduce the employer’s fee. It is not that we are ideologically opposed to reducing the employer’s fee. If the crisis generally struck equally seriously over all parts of the economy, this could have been a sensible proposal. But it's not like that. We fear a two-part crisis. These are the companies that are most vulnerable to falling demand internationally, who sell fewer goods, and who get lower prices, which is our main challenge. What they're most vulnerable to is an increase in the price of the crown. There we have been helped – a low exchange rate has been a buffer in relation to the problems they have. If we just pause and believe that the people who spend the most billion now are the ones who most effectively fight unemployment, we'll use up that space.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2204	The President will allow Erna Solberg, as the parliamentary leader, to have 3 minutes of speaking time, even though she has spoken twice before. This is starting to take the form of a general debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2207	Thank you for that. I think maybe the government itself should clear up a little bit in its own arguments. This morning I was in debate with the finance minister where she said that the government had given NOK 11 billion in tax relief in connection with the crisis. We have a prime minister who has stood here and said that they have given no tax relief, because they should not give any tax relief until the care of the elderly shines. But the two things just don't go together. If the Government considers that they have provided tax relief, they should be able to dry it in the debates on care for the elderly, too, not only in the debates on fiscal policy and other matters. If they believe that they have not given tax relief, as they say in the debates on care for the elderly, they should also be able to dry out saying that we do not use taxes as an instrument because we have promised the voters something else, and we have committed ourselves to that – no matter how the economic situation develops, regardless of whether it is individuals who become unemployed, no matter how many small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling. We've committed ourselves to it, because we shouldn't give tax relief. But two messages on the same day where you contradict each other are double bookkeeping, that's trying to trick the voters. I think the voters are wiser than that. To the question: Of course, tax relief works. Tax relief works, in particular a reduction in the employer’s tax. This has also been documented by the SSB. A reduction in the proposed size could lead to 5 000 fewer unemployed. It works at 0.75 in relation to 1 if one sets 1 which is what are purely public funding mechanisms, i.e. public demand. But why do we say that we should use tax relief rather than just more public demand? Yes, because it reaches those we do not reach with public demand. It is also one of the mantras used by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister in all debates: look at the export industry, look at private business – we do not reach them with public demand. Well, we reach them by cutting their costs. We reach them by making sure that it's cheaper that people keep the job. We make sure that people can get through a difficult situation, without more people losing their jobs. That really should have been taken over by the Minister of Finance. This is an instrument that reaches those who have the hardest, as when the 51,000 small businesses that are struggling, as it was in the VG last weekend, as when the people who need it the most, that is, those in small businesses that are in danger of having to quit more. But you choose to say with your eyes open: No, we can't afford to spend more money on tax relief. It should have been a good thing to do, because it would have meant a lot to well-being, the most fundamental well-being – that fewer people are unemployed. It's possible to reverse a case. We have been open from day one in terms of what we have proposed is a one-year measure. It can also be reversed, without anyone wanting to be so surprised at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2218	It has been said very well in this debate, not so much alarming. The most perceptive thing was that the Minister of Finance in his main post did not affect the fight against poverty in a single word. The only precursor to the temperature in the debate was when the representative Syversen called for this from the Minister of Finance. But she answered by talking about fair distribution, which of course is important. But this is where some of the problem lies. This government has not been willing to go far enough in targeting measures in relation to the fight against poverty. They said they'd eliminate poverty. They used strong words that it just had purposely to do. We can now sum up the phase at the end of this magnification period. There have been no fewer poor people in Norway; there have been more. There have not been fewer children in poor families; there have been more. There have not been fewer addicts in line, there have been more. Nor has there been any reduction in the return queue, there have been almost twice as many. It surprises me that the Minister of Finance also did not choose to address this handle in his second post, chose to answer the challenge. If this is a matter as important in 2009 as it was in 2005, why is there not one word left in Storting's main political debate before we split up? It's up to the Minister of Finance to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2225	With reference to the posts of the representative Sponheim, it is necessary to ask a very important question. Now, when we got a report on the success of the previous government's fiscal policy up to 2005, how could it be that the same government left the government offices while there were still well over 100,000 unemployed? Was it then that the tax policy of the then government did not work well enough, that it was not targeted enough to bring unemployment down further, or is the explanation different? I can unfortunately do little with the calculations made by the Statistical Central Bureau. But it's like they've done a calculation of the effect of taxes of the order of 19 billion kroner. Then it turns out that if this money is used for increased public employment, it could result in an approximate amount of money. 40,000 new jobs. If we use them to stimulate general private consumption, that is. Tax relief, it gives 10,000 new jobs. So more targeted investment than investing in public in the situation we're in can hardly be thought of according to the Statistical Central Bureau. Then I have to say that it is remarkable that the representative Sponheim has not discovered what is actually happening in Norwegian industrial policy for the time being. Because it's pretty interesting to record that the innovation activity in society is bigger than ever. And in this area, we're pretty good. We're good at figuring things out, and now there's more to innovation than in many years. This is quite important in view of future jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2234	I feel a strong need to take the floor, because that's how the leader of the country's second largest party spoke falsely when she held her main post. She said the differences have increased. That's not right. It is well documented in the report just presented by the Distribution Committee that the differences increased dramatically under the previous government, under the right government, where the Progress Party had strong influence and a strong responsibility for the policies that were pursued, while under our government the distribution is better, and it has become better under our government than under the previous one. It is also the case that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance has fallen. There have been decreases from 129 000 people in 2005, to 110 000 in 2007. The figures for 2008 and 2009 are coming soon. But it's important to know one thing, and that's that the biggest steps that we've taken in terms of distribution, the biggest steps that have been taken in terms of both property taxes and inheritance taxes, and that are made to raise the minimum pensions and introduce housing support, are the grips shown in the tables from this year on. The most important thing we've done for the people who have the least is to increase the minimum pension and double it. It's going to be NOK 145000. It's increased by NOK 16 000. It helps all those who are insured, who have been the minimum pensioners, and lonely caregivers. The second important step we have taken concerns social assistance rates. A large part of those receiving social assistance today are people who have either been socialised with low social security, or people who are social welfare recipients, long-term social workers, and who can now move on to qualifying aid that is phased into our city, Oslo, at the latest during the year – it will be in place then. It means an enormous boost for the people who have the least. In addition, we know that from 1 July this year, we will strengthen the housing support, as the previous government, under Erna Solberg, weakened when it came to families with children. There are 50,000 new people under the housing support scheme as of 1 July. This is a big and important grip, and then it's no use for the party leader of the country's second largest party to stand here and say that the differences have increased, because they have decreased over the time that has passed. There's one thing I think is striking, and that I would like to have both Lars Sponheim and Dagfinn on the track to talk about, and it's simple that goes on redistribution. For all poverty targets used, all low income targets used, whether EU or OECD, are about distribution, they are about fair distribution, and they are about how much you have in relation to the median, or the average of the population. So it's striking that neither the Left nor the Christian People's Party ever talks about redistribution and fair distribution. Without it, poverty is not eliminated, and there is no fair distribution – when the tax rate goes to the richest, as we see there are proposals for today as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2243	First about poverty: I like to discuss it at any time of the day, but not only do I discuss it, I also work to fight it every day. What is the difference between the views of the Christian People's Party and the views of the SV on poverty, is the perspective with which Heikki Holmås concluded, namely that a policy of fair distribution must be pursued in large measure as part of the fight against poverty. When, in the last period, civil policy was giving out significant tax credits at the top, and then running a little charity towards those who were poor at the bottom, I think it is absolutely right to confront them with differential policies and poverty. Let's do something. We redistribute from those who have a lot and to the community. We also have a different dimension in the fight against poverty, and that is the welfare systems. The distribution committee that has provided a report underlines the importance of providing childcare for all children, and makes it so reasonable that most people have the opportunity to go there. It gives children a community, but it also gives those who don't have parents who back them an opportunity to have another arena. The same applies to school, the broad common welfare country schemes are very important in the fight against poverty. All of these perspectives are with us. What we have done directly for those who have poor advice is to raise the minimum pension, raise the pension for young disabled people and extend the housing support scheme to 50,000 more. We're going to continue that line: distribute fairly in general, fight poverty directly and strengthen the welfare state. So to Erna Solberg about reducing employers' taxes. Half of Norwegian enterprises have five or fewer employees. To reduce the employer’s fee by 2.5 pst. means, on average, a tax relief for those holdings of NOK 26000. For most people, it will cover one month's wage, including social expenditure, a little depending on what the salary level is. But it's not that it will largely solve the challenges for the companies that are really struggling. For Årdal, which is one of the companies that are struggling, that have lost revenue in the order of NOK 1 billion, and which is very dependent on how the krone price develops, this would mean SEK 7.5 million. kr. – So if you look at the proportions of the kind of proposals that are now the challenges in the labour market, we have a two-part development in the Norwegian economy. In fact, in some areas, there is a shortage of labour. There would be no reduction of employers' taxes, but in other areas where these severe falls in demand in the international economy are really at risk, we need to focus our attention on the measures we are promoting. That's what we've been targeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2258	That was about exactly those words the Minister of Finance also used when she was an opposition politician in 2004. After three years of giving annual tax relief to business, it was precisely those words she used to give significant tax relief and not think of others. So that's the level of taxation that the last government laid down in 2004, which she's been basing on throughout this period. It is the tax level of the previous government, the level of 2004 tax – after several years of heavily criticised tax credits – that she has chosen to continue in government! There is no doubt that the level of taxation that has given Norway increased revenues from 2005 to 2009 is around NOK 260 billion. I have not said, and I do not mean, and I am absolutely sure that it is not, that it is solely the tax base for this. It's good times, companies make more money, more companies can hire more people, which can be taxed again. So there's no doubt about it. Nor is there any doubt that the right level of taxation is helping businesses to manage well and to make good use of time. In any case, it is not possible to say the opposite that the correct level of taxation, the level of taxation from 2004, which was based on several years of tax relief for enterprises, has not contributed to the good times that have come after. It's important to get left behind. Then to the representative of Gullvåg. I would like to repeat it again: the Stoltenberg I government left itself a rapidly increasing unemployment. The Norwegian economy was in bad shape. I could go so far as to say that it had to be cleaned up after them the last time, in 2001, because it was a rapidly increasing unemployment. It was reversed, only after a few difficult and difficult years, and it became considerably easier from 2004, and unemployment was falling. Thus, the red-green government took over the government in 2005, with falling unemployment. Fortunately, it has fallen through the good times we have just talked about. But when probably and hopefully the red-green government now has to leave the government offices, it does it again with a rapidly increasing unemployment. I think that story can be written about the Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II government that when they left the government offices, there was a rapidly increasing unemployment every time. Then it's this self-conception that there's so much innovation and good business policy being led by this government. It doesn't say business out there. The number of enterprises newly started is now falling very much. There has been a tightening of the FUNN system, which all companies complain about, and which may have been the most important contribution to innovation during this period. So finally, every time the representative Holmås is on the pulpit and is going to talk about poverty, it sounds to me like it's talking about how we're going to fight wealth. For the Left, it is important in the light of the good economy to be focused on combating poverty. Poverty among children and drug users — there we have the big job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2278	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2282	The representative Sandal felt it obviously very unfair that I pointed out that the Labour Party is more concerned with the political game than going into and discussing the increasing unemployment. The reality is that the Central Statistical Office and the Bank of Norway have established that we are at risk of unemployment of 120 000–130 000 to next year. Lower interest rates have been taken into account, measures taken in the public sector have been taken into account, and measures taken in relation to the financial market have been taken into account. In other words, we know that unemployment can increase to 120 000-130,000, and the government parties have not presented one alternative in this debate on how to avoid getting there. It points to the public sector, but we can't all work in the public sector. It is the government's dogmatic resistance to tax relief that now makes it impossible to lower the cost of employing employees in private enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2291	I took the word because I felt the need to correct my honor. When Heikki Holmås repeatedly said in this debate that we cut into the housing support system, and then with a slightly lower voice said, for the families of children, the truth is that under the previous government there was a real increase of the housing support scheme of 350 million. kr. We made many improvements to the metropolitan system – it was an important part of the poverty response of the previous government. During this period we have proposed improvements in the housing support scheme every year, and we have also been shy enough to say that we thought it was good that the government finally made a raise for the housing support scheme last year. But they hadn't done anything about this in the first few years. The previous government did it every year. We built it up and targeted it to the weakest groups. Then I also want to say to the representative of Gullvåg that there are limits to how much effect you get from increasing public demand. It requires unemployment in the capacity needed by the public sector, but it is not unemployed nurses; it is not unemployed teachers. There is very little unemployment among those groups, and so you don't help the industrial worker who loses his job by increasing the number of municipal jobs, if they ask for a completely different competence. The human aspect of this is that the greater and stronger the migration requirements, the more it falls outside. In particular, the SV has led this debate. The Workers' Party has been quite silent, and it is astonishing, because the Workers' Party is a party which has traditionally been for business, and has traditionally been concerned with the fact that value creation is also about profitable enterprises. As regards ownership and private ownership in Norway, this is a distribution perspective. Taxing those who create jobs, as far as possible, becomes an allocation perspective so that every increase in taxes on owners increases the tax on jobs. So there's a shift this year with the tax allocation that's been made, which means that the crisis from many district jobs has become much stronger – many more are experiencing failures. But then we certainly have many good examples of how the employer’s fee will turn out. However, it is interesting that those who put the most pressure on to reduce the employer’s tax are small and medium-sized enterprises. It's just the companies that have five employees, who have stood on most, so maybe it would be wise for the Minister of Finance to listen to those who actually make the decision whether to quit people or let people keep the job, and to hear what they think is the most important tool, instead of leaning back and thinking that you always know better yourself. I think that's right when they say that they would be able to keep more employees, for example. in the field of hotel and travel activities, through this crisis, if they had been relieved by the employer’s charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2302	I think it is quite indicative of the situation with regard to the fight against poverty in Norway, that the one who appeared in the 2005 election campaign as the leading tabloid on the opposition side in the fight against poverty, in the debate here today, after having had the keys to the Ministry of Finance for four years, must resort to the previous government period to find arguments for its own excellence. The difference between the Christian People's Party's policy and the SV's policy against poverty is not that SV is for distribution and the Christian People's Party is for alms. It's historyless to claim something like that. The Christian People's Party is most concerned with distribution. But we have, in terms of poverty, come to the realization that you do not reach the goal if you do not target the measures much, much more than this government has been willing to. And that was on purpose. That is what decided to achieve the goal of abolishing poverty, according to the same Minister of Finance four years ago. Now we have come to the moment of truth. The difference between the Christian People's Party's policies on poverty and the SV's policies on poverty is primarily about that recognition. We said it was hard. The finance minister said it was easy. There would have been a contribution to increasing credibility for politicians in general and for the finance minister in particular if she had been willing, to some extent at least, to admit that it was a little more twisted than it looked in 2005, because the numbers speak at least their clear language about it. Then the government parties, and they repeat it here at voting today, at least according to the vote, voted against a number of the targeted actions the Christian People's Party has proposed. We do not disagree with any of the policies listed by the Minister of Finance, but we have therefore proposed more on labour market measures for those with special needs, income-grade childcare rates, which would have countered the sharp increase in prices that they have met with the worst, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, in kindergartens, large-scale urban measures aimed at children and young people, and increased capacity in drug treatment, in order to make use of the available capacity in private institutions, but there seems to be a good thing for the Government that drug addicts are in line, just a state-owned queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2311	First, to the representative Lars Sponheim: first, it is that the strong growth that has taken place in this ageing period has occurred at a time when taxes have been increased, not reduced. When we were going back to the 2004 level, we zeroed the tax bill that was there from the previous Bondevik government, and increased the tax back to the 2004 level. It has given us NOK 12 billion more in increased tax revenue per year. years. That's what we've been using for well-being and distribution. So it's not possible to say that it's the taxation policy of the previous government that has made sure that we have significantly larger revenues. Point 2: How to treasure is incredibly important. We have made significant changes in the taxes on wealth. This means that 400,000 people who paid taxes on wealth four years ago are now dropping out. An additional half a million have lower taxes on wealth. But for those who are really on top, we've sealed the tax havens, and they pay a lot more taxes now than they did. It's important to be able to distribute fairly. I have a little visit to Erna Solberg as well. Hotel and travel life is the best argument to increase the use of oil by 17 billion kroner. It is precisely the industry that, in addition to the export industry, will be hit by stronger crowns, and it is those who live by tourism! That means it's going to be more expensive to travel to Norway than otherwise, if we don't manage that balance sheet. It is important that we be able to target measures where the challenges are greatest. Then to the poverty debate. I have registered something that I think is very interesting about the Christian People's Party's time in opposition, namely how little weight the Christian People's Party has put on extensive tax proposals in its alternative budgets. I think it shows that the Christian People's Party in government, together with the Right, had to pursue a policy of distribution that was not their primary policy. That's the way to participate in a government. You have to come up with compromises. But I might also think that one of the reasons for the criticism I made four years ago, and as I would like to repeat now, is that pursuing right-wing policies in the big distribution policy is a very bad recipe for combating poverty. The two things are connected. If we are able to achieve a fair distribution in relation to the world around us, this is an easier country to fight poverty in, because that means that we are making some very important welfare choices. That means that most kids, no matter what parents they have, go to the same school, and there's no class distinction to a large extent. This means that most children come to kindergartens, and that means that they can be targeted at combating unemployment, raising social assistance, improving social security and getting into the community where others are. But it's interesting what's happened to the Christian People's Party in opposition in that area. We're looking forward to everything!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2322	I record that the representative Sanner is trying to make it so that my reaction ends in that I perceive the point of view and his criticism as unfair. No, it's not like that. When I allowed myself to comment on three of Sanner's undocumented claims, I did so because they were incorrect and lacked root in the actual reality. Nor is it the way that Sanner tries to make it, that the Labour Party is busy with the political game and does not have the ability and the will to discuss political realities about unemployment or various instruments to keep unemployment down in society. In fact, the Labour Party and the other two government parties are mobilizing enormously to keep the unemployment down. The Labour Party has a long, strong and proud tradition of being at the forefront of defending the right to work for ordinary people. It's actually a line and a tradition that I'm proud of. We're going to carry it on in the time that's coming. Then the representative reminds Sanner that the Central Statistical Office has said that unemployment will increase. Yes, of course we are aware of that. We regret that our country is also the framework of the international financial crisis in such a way that unemployment is growing. I also found that in my post. Therefore, it is important to have offensive measures, as we have seen, and such as we need to put in more of them if the extent of the problems in the labour market is greater than the ones we see now. So the representative said to Sanner that we didn't have one new measure to deal with this matter. That is also incorrect. We have a bunch of measures that we're using. Healthy $9.5 billion have been introduced in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget, mainly to address labour market problems. I refer to what I said earlier about measures to strengthen Innovation Norway, measures to provide more student and student places and measures to give the community sector more money to keep employment up. In the end, I remind you that we are in the throes when it comes to having the strongest and best measures to give impulses to create activity and keep unemployment down in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2331	The representative Holmås pointed out that the Government can show that the differences in Norway have been reduced. The government may also indicate that it will increase over the year. The reason for reducing differences is that the stock exchange is falling and Norwegian jobs have become more unsafe. This shows the futility of the SV Difference Norway perspective, because as unemployment increases and Norwegian jobs become more uncertain, SV can breast-feed and say that differences in Norway are decreasing. If you look at poverty at individual level, there is one common feature of poor people in Norway, and it is that they are permanent out of work. The reasons for that are many, but a significant cause is linked to health, to drugs, to psychiatry, and that is disease. At individual level, people affected by poverty in Norway experience longer health cows, longer queues for drug treatment, longer queues and longer waiting time for psychiatric treatment, and they experience increasing unemployment and an even more uncertain labour market. Social assistance expenditure by municipalities is increasing so strongly that the Government has made additional appropriations to cover it. The number of residents is increasing. There is one point of light on the part of the Government in the fight against poverty, and that is the proposal to improve the housing support system. But it must also be borne in mind that this government has been the first government in Norway since 1997 to submit government budgets that have not included improvements to the housing aid scheme. So the Government is pleased to present in the 2009 budget a blue copy of the Right's proposal to improve the housing support system presented by the Right in connection with our State budget in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2340	There is one thing about this debate that gives me hope, and there are many who are concerned about the most disadvantaged. I look forward to participating in that competition and the pressure we're going to have in these areas, because that's necessary. I was one of those who criticized the previous Bondevik government very strongly for their policies. It didn't help anything. I have also sometimes criticized the government in which my own party is involved, and it has helped significantly. There have been actions that are of a completely different dimension than what we saw in the previous period. So a little bit to the representative Höie. Well, there are also people who have jobs, who are poor. Some of them work in industries such as hotels, restaurants and cleaning facilities. They are trying to defend this government by putting in place measures against social dumping, which I record as the Right is against. Some of the poor who are in work, work in marginal professions. We have to do something about that. Fiscal policy actually leads to more poor people. That's the way you calculate it. For individuals it does not mean much, but it is important to have a policy that prevents poverty from occurring. The government, especially when it comes to kindergarten and a lot of what we've done for school. Housing support – it wasn’t targeted enough,” says Høybräten. The housing aid is targeted – right to the poorest. The increase in all minimum pensions is money for the poorest. The increase in social assistance that we have done – not so much, but we have done so, in the last period there was nothing – goes right to the poorest. The qualification programme, which we have put in place, which is now underway throughout the country and which works – right to the poorest, with both measures and income protection at a fixed level, so that you do not go and be tested every single month, and sometimes every week as well. There's a lot of things we've been doing that are really important. Then there are areas where there is absolutely a need for more. That fight I now think I hear that more people have thought to be involved. But I very much agree with the Minister of Finance – and the party leader in SV – who says that it is both historyless and practically impossible to combat poverty with right-wing policies. It's not possible, it's not possible! That's why I'm challenging a little Christian People's Party about the company they're going to be in for the fight against poverty. If you're going to succeed, you're going to have to choose the side that's occupied with distribution and that's occupied with the most disadvantaged. I record that the Christian People's Party chooses the side that is occupied by tax havens rather than welfare and community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2353	Then is the debate in Case No. 1 and 2 ended. It's going to continue in the election campaign. [[Fotation, see page 4085]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2373	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2393	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2413	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2433	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2487	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2507	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2527	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2547	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2568	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2588	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2608	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2628	No one has asked for the floor. Thorbjørn Jagland reinstated here the president's office. [[Fotation, see page 4137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2640	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-14.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e2663	During the debate, 112 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-18, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 19 and 20, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 21 and 22, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposals No. 23-25, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right-wing Proposals No. 26–28, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 29–35, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 36-77 and 112, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 78-82, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 83, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 84 to 96, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 97–99, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 100–104, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 105-111, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left These proposals are included on pages 256 to 283 of the vote, with the exception of paragraphs 1. 112, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives. In the vote we are about to take, the President first takes the minority proposals and then the vote's motion for a resolution. We start with the suggestions from the smallest fraction. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 105 to 111, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e4598	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 100–104, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e5891	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 97-99, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e6041	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 84 to 96, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e7418	There is a vote on proposal No. 83, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2009 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner1330Special transport measures71Strengthening of the TT system, granted by 15 000 0002421Innovation Norway50Innovation - projects, funds, increased by 177 000 000 from DKK 546 000 000 to NOK 723 000 0005531Tax for tobacco products70Tax, increased by 80 000 000 000 from DKK 7 618 000 000 to NOK 7 698 000» [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e7511	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 78-82, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e7657	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36 to 77, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9296	There is a vote on proposal No. 112 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9316	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29-35, with the exception of paragraphs 30 and No 34, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9358	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30 and No 34, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9384	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26–28, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9470	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9541	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21 and No 21 22 from the Party of Prosperity, right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9565	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and No 20, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9589	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–18, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e9791	Now that we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the parties, in line with the practice of the revision of the national budget, are prepared to abstain from the vote they would normally vote on at the final vote – this in order to avoid a time-consuming and, in part, complicated voting where the result has been given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion. This is a electoral guarantee!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21292	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a cultural pool to distribute among the study associations in order to stimulate training-related actions in the cultural field not covered by current schemes.’ The right has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21313	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of the right to follow-up protection until the age of 23 for young people who have received the help of child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21332	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for the winding-up of its members.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21351	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent by the meeting of the Odelstingen on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a comprehensive financing plan for crisis centres.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21369	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘In Stortinget, the Government asks the Government to establish a system that indexes the amounts respectively. self-executed and purchased R & D in the Tax Fund scheme each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21416	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the definition of refugee by the Foreign Affairs Act complies with the refugee concept of the Refugee Convention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21435	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to wind up the scheme of supplementary social benefits for persons with short residence in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21455	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government requests the submission of a separate case on the organisation and conditions of the future system of specialist recognition and training of health professionals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21472	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to allow the establishment of Internet pharmacy during the autumn of 2009. ‘The Party of Progress, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left are behind the proposal, so that the President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against it. [[e-pharmacy]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21493	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to initiate an evaluation of the medicinal product management to see whether it operates in a satisfactory and desired manner.’ The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the proposal, so the president here also expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21514	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the EU patient directive is implemented in Norwegian law as soon as possible, so that patients in Norway can also have the opportunity to use hospital services throughout the EU.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21533	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party, sent by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 June 2009: ‘The Government is asking for new reimbursement schemes, including the use of hospital care and other excluded health services in the EEA area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19.ana.ud884e21557	There is no record. Then we've reached the end of the 153rd Grand Prix, the last of this parliamentary term. During the last year, the size has had 105 meetings, while there have been 52 meetings in Odelstinget and 19 in Lagtinget. The creation ended its last meeting and went out of the history of our constitution at 4 p.m. 03.55 in the night after 195 years. Odelstinget shall have its last meeting after this meeting in Stortinget. The government has promoted 243 cases for Stortinget. The representatives of Storting have promoted 111 proposals for representatives. The Committees have sent 375 votes to Stortinget and 135 to Odelstinget. The government has contributed to the debates in Stortinget with 6 presentations in addition to the census and the financial speech. The number of questions to the ordinary Question Time has been 221 and 134 main questions in the oral Question Time. The government has answered 68 interviews and received 1,396 written questions from Stortinget. I would like to thank the representatives and the whole support apparatus for the efforts of this unique building, in this wonderfully good society and in this beautiful country we all know as ours: Norway. Political life is changing. It's always been. However, we are tempted to think that it is no longer like in good old days. The strange thing about the future, however, is that when it comes, our time will be called just the good old days. But I still find reason to use three sentences at the end of saying that our parliamentary system is under pressure, not because we have had a majority rule. It came as a result of an election result, and it's not the first time we've had such a situation. No, there are so many things that draw attention away from the main hall, and make it more difficult to exercise influence over society through politics. I have observed that state councils have hesitated for days to respond to enquiries from the Stortinget on account, but asked for debate on the same theme so to speak in minutes. I have experienced that representatives have said one thing in the storeroom, and much more and much stronger outside the hall. There's no doubt about what's going to be covered. In addition to this pressure on the media community and the entertainment community to hold the parliamentary debate, we also have the fact that more and more of the legislation is taking place outside this room, outside the borders of the country, often with minimal influence from the Storting. Nor is it likely that the strong economic and technological forces of globalisation make it more difficult to influence social development through political work. It's my hope that next period politicians will spend some time thinking about this and be creative in meeting the challenges. The next growing period will be the last before the big constitutional anniversary in 2014. I hope we can then turn on the bass drum and drag all the people into the celebration. The mandate given to the Main Committee by the Stortinget points out that children and young people in particular should be given the meaning of the Constitution and the Government of the People's Republic of China today. At the last meeting of the Presidency, we completed a long process of appointing a sample to see if we can reflect better in our constitution the strong role played by international human rights in our world. In this way, we can draw a historical line from the popular sovereignty built by the Eigensvollsmen in 1814 to today's modern human rights thinking. The sovereignty of the people means that the people choose their leaders, and that the elected people make laws. Fortunately, as a result of the tragic wars of the last century, popular sovereignty has been further developed in the UN and here in Europe, so that today's popular sovereignty also means that no popular assembly, no majority, can sit beyond universal human rights. The Constitution was in its time the most modern in Europe, and it should retain its power in the minds of the North and in our political system for a new time. The work we have started will be led by a long parliamentary experience and intellectual strength, Inge Wohnning. Even though we've had no part and laying, we know that this big thing has also been one thing. We've been duelled, frustrated and triumphant. But we've been together. In that we have agreed and believed if even Dovre should fall. Norway is well equipped for the future. We've done ours. Now it only remains to be recognized that the time is running out, and today we can rightly say, and we with it. After the immediate suspension of the meeting, the representatives are invited to sign the minutes of the Storting and its departments. The storage protocol is published in the laying room and the Odel Sting protocol can be signed here. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – The meeting has been cancelled and the staging session has ended. [[Standing applause in the Chamber]]
