ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e61	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e72	The political aspirations of our generation will, in line with those that have led us in politics, of course, be about our ability to take care of fundamental human rights, secure democracy, contribute to the creation of values, and ensure a fair distribution – and other important things. In addition, our recommendation as decision-makers – perhaps even more so than before – will be about our ability to manage resources. Environmental issues may shape our time even more than before. It will be one of the major challenges that are in our time, and perhaps among the most demanding will be the work of securing biological deficiency. Leaving the earth in at least the same good condition as we took over it is not a new philosophy. It's an ancient thought, which is the starting point for one of our finest manipulations, simply a bear force. It's still the way that those who come after us are our generous choices and our actions. The natural disaster promise we are about to adopt today is a hub for precisely securing nature's lack of future generations through a resilient administration. A joint committee welcomes the work undertaken in the handling of the new law. Because even though the parties differ on some issues in the law, there is a joint committee that is based on the important responsibility we have to safeguard nature's inadequacy. Natural disasters law underlines to a greater extent than previous legislation in this area that this work should be based on a thought of dialogue and cooperation. National legislation in this area is effective only if it absorbs the knowledge of the people who daily manage this deficiency through work in nature, and also through construction and outdoor activities. Respect for the knowledge and activities that are going on and that have gone on in the valuable areas through generations must be accompanied by a knowledge-based framework for further sustainable management. Resilient use has helped many places to give the values that we call today. Making sure the construction and use of many places is a premise to preserve just nature's lack. Work on sustainable nature management through voluntary protection, care and use agreements and by taking responsibility for sustainable use by the industries themselves, such as forestry, for example. through Live Forest, are good examples of maintaining dialogue with those who live, feed and in other ways use the valuable nature. The law is comprehensive, and I didn't expect to go into all the parts of it in detail, but I want to underline some important parts of it and mention some points where the committee's members separate teams. Laws still provide for all nature to be well planned and managed, and particularly threatened or vulnerable nature must have a special protection. In addition, laws have specific rules aimed at preserving priority species and selected natural habitat types. If the King of the Council of State adopts a prioritisation of specific deferred species or natural habitat types, these shall be managed by a combination of planning and building laws, sectoral laws and rules in the event of natural disasters. It is important to stress that there may be different ways of caring for endangered species and nature species, and that before the establishment of the ecological functional area for priority species and the selection of natural species, an assessment should be made as to whether it is the most appropriate way or whether other measures should be used. There may be territorial protection or voluntary solutions and agreements. There should also be room for activities in the protected areas. Outdoor activities, activities or other uses shall continue to be provided as long as they are sustainable and not contrary to the purpose of protection. The Committee also refers here to what has been called the mountain text, which mentions activities in protected areas. Therefore, there is no reason to base the opposition’s interpretation of Paragraph 34, even though the fifth paragraph of this paragraph has a positive bearing on activities that are clearly built up under the purpose of protection. The fourth paragraph clearly states that activities contrary to the purpose of protection shall not be permitted. The promise of its own text builds up under such an interpretation. Similarly, the opposition has also indicated that the Government imposes fundamental procedural risk on the sub-understanding by not referring to Section 54 of the Law of Judgment. The government's party assumes that the landowners under the rule shall not risk the sub-segment, and that this is represented by the design that the Government has given to them. The issue of sea area is also a theme, but I see that I don't think I'm going to go into it. Only in the end: Under Section 78, changes in other laws, do not bring about any minor changes that are necessary and relate to cultural memories. I therefore take up a proposal from the Committee to include these.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e98	The representative Erling Sande has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e101	This law, which we are dealing with and adopting today, now replaces the nature protection law, which we were passed only in 1970. It was before the 1972 Biodiversity Act that left the new framework for the overall administration, i.e. the two laws I now referred to. Today's natural diversity law is a protection law. It does not contain any overall principles of sustainable use by nature. This is where the previous legislation differs from the forward-looking law that we are now discussing, namely that the Law on Natural Diversity should have coordinated legislation on nature diversity and the common premises for the environment and sectoral management. It will then contribute to meeting Norway’s international commitments on sustainable use and protection of our nature. I dare say that this nature diversity law is probably the most important law on nature that has ever been proposed in Norway for treatment. While the law of nature protection, which I had in mind, was a pure law of protection, we now get a law for all Norwegian nature. It is historic, and it promises and modernises Norwegian natural management. All modern governance is based on an ecosystem-based approach in which all nature is to be seen in a coherent and comprehensive way. We are now very pleased to state that the principle of natural management must be knowledge-based in the right and proper sense of the law. Here, both research and knowledge acquired through the use of nature by generations will now have the most central place in the law. We are very pleased that we are now getting a species project in Norway, as we have in Sweden. This promise must be seen in connection with the new law. Two new key instruments are introduced into the law. It prioritises species and prioritises selected habitat types. Priority species are essentially a continuation of today’s conservation rights. The new thing is that the ecological functional areas of the species can also be given absolute and good protection. I can take an example. The reefs now become a priority species. This could be done, for example, by: This means that mountain reefs should also be protected. It's not like that today. You have to see this in its entirety. It's very important. In terms of selected habitat types, we're going to make some active choices and say that some types are more important than others in nature. That's the first time we get a real type division here in Norway. It is very important that we now have the opportunity to manage vulnerable habitat types in a sustainable way, even outside our strict protection areas. It is important to stress that selected habitat types should be a form of protection that does not mean that the activity we have must cease. On the contrary, one can imagine some cases where support for active use and care will be necessary to keep a nature type in claim. I think that's very important to emphasize. I also believe that it is important for the value of sales – to put it this way – of this law that it protects in a completely different way. In some areas, for example: ask the landowners to keep certain areas in claim in a special way so that we can take care of special types. Area protection will be mainly maintained as today. There are two protection categories here. The nature and watercourse protection areas are exiting, while a whole new category of marine protection is being created. Important action is being taken in the area of compensation, by determining the degree of restrictions on compensation, not the name of the protection. There will be a fairer and predictable system, in the areas in which it intervenes. The geographical scope of the law has also been discussed, as the case-rapporteur pointed out. I'm not hiding that. However, the overall principles of sustainable use shall apply to the entire economic zone of Norway. Some paragraphs have no relevance to our marine areas, but some provisions, including: those dealing with priority species and selected habitat types will continue to work to see how they may be applied outside the territorial boundary without being in conflict with, among others. international law, which is important here. I would like to underline what I initially had to say, that it is a very important law that the Government has put forward, which is now being dealt with in Odelstinget. As the rapporteur was in the Chamber, I am very pleased that the content of the law and what it stands for are wide and wide. I believe that we will now come up with a whole new track in terms of protection provisions in Norway and the way in which we work with the communities, in the large areas there, to preserve what lives in nature, and which should not least live on in our nature, in which we are so happy. This is an overall law, of which we can all be proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e127	The next speaker is Tord Lien. The representative Lien has a speaking time of up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e130	Thank you, President. Even it can be made at least. There is often some disagreement in the debates of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in Stortinget. But it is actually that a unanimous committee today is going to vote in favour of the law. A good part of the premises are the principles underpinning the law. I intend to go into what we think is good with the law, and what we think could have been even better. Let me start with the law of nature protection. I have often stood here on the pulpit and said that it is a static protection law. Management of the law has not in any way, at least not significantly, contributed to reducing the loss of natural diversity in Norway. The National Audit Office's report last summer also indicated that something had to be done here. At the same time, the law has contributed to an unnecessary level of conflict in the municipalities where this law works primarily. Therefore, it is primarily very gratifying that we are today getting rid of the static protection law and moving on to a new kind of approach to Norwegian natural diversity policy. I have repeatedly stood on this platform and said that I want more active species protection with a knowledge-based management. I feel that this law can help today. Of course, it demands that what we adopt today is also followed up in the budgetary work of the years to come. State Council Solheim earlier today said that someone in the Progress Party was concerned with salmon. I can assure the Council of State that in the Advancement Party it is not just one, but up to several who are occupied by everything from salmon to wild rain, mountain reefs, yerv, gaupe, orchids, etc. I expect that we will have a good opportunity to get back to it during the day. Another good thing about the law is to put in place a new compensation scheme. Several types of protection are covered by the compensation schemes and the large types of land-consuming and conflict-filled protection, landscape protection and national parks are now covered by a replacement scheme. It is very good, and it can help reduce the level of conflict in large parts of the country. So that's what I've been talking about so far instead – more focus on management knowledge. But then it's important that we also follow up on this with experience-based knowledge, which is mentioned in the law, and which I believe is very important, and that we also follow up experience-based knowledge in the further work, so that not only theorists at the University of Oslo and NTNU are involved in this, but that knowledge-based acquisition is involved over a broad reading. Parts of the sea fall within the scope of the law. We think that's good. The opposition proposes that the entire Norwegian jurisdiction be governed by the law. The Progress Party, like the Government, believes that the Aquaculture Act, the Marine Resource Act, the Petroleum Act and the environmental regulations that meet a good part of the challenges facing between 12 and 200 nautical miles. But there's going to be something paradoxical — it's got to be an incursion — when the government doesn't include the polluter-pays principles, the best available technology and the universal care obligation between 12 and 200 nautical miles. I can't see that there's any argument against it. It argues in relation to land protection issues to international law. Now it is that many laws applicable to Norwegian activity between 12 and 200 nautical miles do not necessarily apply to other actors in compliance with international law. There had been no problem in changing the business area paragraph in line with the proposal of the Progress Party today. But the government will not have the polluter pays principle and the best available technology principle legalized on the base – very strange! Then to predators. Today's predatory policy is incompatible with the management objective of Section 5. There is a lot of insurance from the Central Party, and to some extent also from the Council of State, that today's predatory policy should continue. But in reply to the committee dated 28 May, the Council of State replied – and I wasn't very surprised about it, but I felt that after the Oslo market debate it was okay to get it fixed anyway – that it is the legal text and today's decision that applies, over comments, the law's preparations and various writings between corruption and government. I guess some of the audience in the room today will probably use Section 5 for what it is worth, in future debates with future environmental protection ministers, without the representative Erling Sande necessarily being able to influence it. I remember that we're going to have this law for 30 years. Section 5 may remain standing for 20 years, maybe it will stay standing for 40 years, but this is a work that we have done now, and that will last for a long time. I'm guessing that Erik Solheim and Erling Sande are hopefully not going to run this policy for more than a few months, but at least not for 30 years. So very briefly about ethnic separation in the law. Purification is important for maintaining the Sami cultural base throughout Norway, along the Swedish border from Hedmark and northwards, and very important to take care of. However, I believe that the operations of seats in the border areas between birch forest and snaufjell in large parts of central Norway, from Salten in the north to Uppland in the south, are an example of a cultural identity-bearing activity carried out by the Nordics, which should have equivalent strict legal protection. It is also the basis for housing and industrial development in these areas. Harvesting principles may not be a matter of great national importance, but there have been some letters between the Stortinget and the Ministry. We all support the law on future harvests and withdrawals – very sensible. That commercial exploitation of species can be a significant influence on these populations is quite obvious. That is why I am pleased that a letter has now been quoted from the State Council, Solheim, where he states about recreational fishing in Norwegian mountain waters: ‘Such fishing has been carried out for many years and may continue.’ I'm very happy about that. I am quite clear that there is a big difference between the world's most inefficient fishing gear, namely fishing rod, and the use of yarn. That there must be different rules for it, she may well do it, but at least barge fishing in mountain waters, where you don't have full control of the populations – it's about a thousand mountain waters – can continue, I'm very happy. Then I'll have to get the powder out. I really don't have the vote to pick up the powder, but I get to try anyway. Paragraph 17 of today's law is about emergency workers. It shall apply to sheep and not to dogs. In contrast, the Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The Government will specify the emergency protection paragraph of the Game Act in order to clarify the animal owner’s right to protect domestic animals and dogs from attacks.’ How the proposal the Government has been working on for three and a half years, in some way fulfilling the promise of the Soria Moria Declaration, I don't understand. Three and a half years have passed. The Nature Diversity Act has been treated for as long as the Soria Moria Declaration has been in force, and the paragraph is proposed in substance not amended at all. On the contrary, it must be examined, and in a proposal for a legislative text that the Directorate of Nature Management and the Government have consulted, it says that a distinction must be made between the bear and the wolf on the one hand and the yerve and gloat on the other. This means that if your hunting dog is attacked by a bear in the outback of Norway, you have to call wildly to ask if the bear's stock is met before you can shoot the bear. It's not to specify the animal owner's right to protect the dog by attack, and it's a huge lifting breach, especially from the Center Party, that's been clumsy about this, but many of the workers' party's representatives have also said that we're going to fix this. This is not going to be sorted before the harvest's choice. I think there is reason to be sorry for that – not that I think it affects the election process of the Advance Party in Norwegian foreign municipalities, but it affects the outreach industries again. Then I am glad that a joint committee decides that the loss of livestock will be completely replaced. On the other hand, I am concerned that once again it is established that losses of grazing rights and other land-related income will not be replaced in the same way. The centre part is still disappointing. Then to priority species. I am pleased, as I said before, that we can now focus on priority species and work concretely and knowledge-based on the species in Norway that we know are threatened and that we decide to save. Once again, it demands knowledge. I remember on this occasion that 35 pst. of all the red-listed species in Norway live in the cultural landscape. That is why I strongly urge the Minister for the Environment, in his handling of this law – he is given a quite wide mandate today – to actually also take care of those who create this cultural landscape. In particular, I ask the Council of State to note the Live Forest Work under the auspices of the Nature Conservation Movement and the Forest Society. So one more thing: if this is a new way of putting passive land protection into practice, we've bombed in relation to what we're going to do. The compensation scheme was a short one. It is good to include new types of protection, but I am responding to the wording ‘current use’. In other words, if you have submitted a concession request, or have submitted a plan for cabin expansion, or want to use your setra for new purposes, you will not be compensated for that type of use. These are often time-consuming and cost-consuming processes for which you are not to be compensated according to the Center Party and the Government. At the same time, you should also take a process risk of under-sexation. Then I remember that when the state comes and enforces something, and takes from the landowners a right, there are not two equal parties meeting – it is the state, the most powerful actor in Norway, against a landowner. Then I believe that it should be an absolute premise that without a risk of trial costs you have an indispensable right to assess the value of the right you are forced to surrender. This is based on expropriation of land to be used by the State, but not on the same principle for other rights, which is in principle the exact same. In the case of selected habitat types, we also support that. It's a good alternative to both landscape protection, I think, and some nature reserves. However, there is reason to point out the same thing I did with priority species: if this becomes a new cheap version of protection, without compensation in accordance with the Natural Diversity Act, it has been bombed. The same applies to the principle that a selected nature type can be introduced without prior identification of where these types of nature are. I think that is unfortunate, and it may have unintended consequences. But as I said, in principle we support this, and we also see in the context of Section 14 that where such protection occurs, but other serious societal interests are at stake, one will nevertheless be able to develop these areas. Just briefly on genetics: we fully agree on the principle that big society owns genetics in nature. I am very pleased that the government says that in order to obtain that genetics you must have permission from the landowner. On the other hand, we totally disagree with both the Government and the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment that the supervision of the general government should not be carried out by mountain supervision. We believe that mountain supervision should have the right to exercise supervision in public opinion, with all the rules of public and civil law, as it has today. What the government and the majority of the population are actually doing today is signaling that today's policy is no longer going to apply. I believe that many of the members of the Central Party and the Workers' Party and those elected to the Mountain Authority, the Mountain Government Association, are very disappointed about that. I think this is very bad. So the Progress Party, despite the fact that there is some resistance to it, including in my own party, has concluded that the police authority for Norwegian-based supervisors is a prerequisite. We do not, however, like to open the way for supervisors to conduct investigations. No one else is actually doing it today, hardly enough Customs and Coast Guard, but now you are going to leave this to some hobby surveillance in Norwegian outland. I see that time goes by, I have to get back to the question of local government. But I just want to say very briefly that the government has put more barriers in relation to the bureaucracy than I had feared. Political treatment is available in a number of areas, which I believe is a more balanced approach between protection and development. But then one performs to say that when the limit is set, in Section 49, the bureaucracy should be able to do so. I think that opens up a gigantic bureaucratic snitch that I think is very unfortunate. On this basis, I am promoting all our proposals, and I have announced quite emphatically that we are not voting in favour of Section 49.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e189	The representative Tord Lien has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e192	Finally, after postponements, internal disagreements and hard draws struggles, the law of diversity is being dealt with. This is a very important law, yes indeed so important that it can be the most important environmental law as long as I have been alive. In fact, the law on nature protection has expired for the longest time. Biodiversity loss is high and sustained. The red list of endangered species is getting longer and longer, and every five Norwegian species are now more or less at risk of extinction. To stop this, we need a well-adapted piece of legislation and new powerful tools based on knowledge. The government's currency in this matter is critical. On 31 May 2006, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and then Minister of Environmental Protection Helen Bjørnøy wrote in a chronicle in the Newspaper that the Government's natural diversity law was to be presented in the Stortinget in 2007. This promise was not kept. Important time has been lost in ensuring biodiversity, and the Storting has been fed off with a few weeks to deal with this issue. The fact that the Storting has to deal urgently with a proposition of almost 500 pages, which in turn is based on an investigation of about 800 pages, illustrates that the procedure the Government has put up in our main environmental matter is under every criticism, and does not give the proceedings in Storting the status and time it deserves. The government itself has spent almost the entire four-year period preparing the proposition, then giving the Storting only a few weeks to deal with it at the end of the session. This shows a lack of respect for Storting's work. But that's unfortunately not the only case we've seen of this. I hope, therefore, that in the next majority period, we will be graced with a majority government, like today's, with the kind of arrogance, where the Storting is almost treated as a rounding bow for the Government's proposal. So over to the proposition itself. I feel that the most disappointing thing about the proposition is that the proposal does not cover the Norwegian territorial sea beyond 12 nautical miles. There is also a great need for a new legal base in these areas. The proposal runs counter to the technical recommendations of the sample investigating the law. Nature and wildlife located outside the 12-mile zone are as valuable as what is within this limit. The government’s justification for not including sea areas outside 12 nautical miles with a background to international law is also not credible — it has been rejected by several — and can also be said to be harmful to Norway’s other maritime ambitions. It is entirely illogical that the practical means, such as selected habitat types and priority species, do not apply beyond 12 nautical miles. The same applies to general principles, which polluter pays and requirements for the use of sound or best available technology. It is also, in principle, reprehensible that in such a context, one discriminates between the oil and fisheries industries and, for example, between them. farmers, forest users and housebuilders. The main cause of biodiversity loss is the destruction of their habitats. Priority species and selected habitat types become a key administrative response to the objective of sustainable use of nature. On a scientific basis, the most endangered species and nature types will be selected, and a separate regulation will automatically require municipalities that have such a nature to take care of them. The species database has a redlist of nearly 4000. Of these, about 2,000 are threatened. I would like to highlight the urgent need for a rapid pace in the selection of priority species and natural habitat types, so that these instruments have a real impact. Selection must already begin, so that much is clear when the law comes into force. Existing and planned action plans for endangered species and habitat types should help to provide the basis for this first selection. Protection is also important. I am proud of the work done by the Bondevik II government, when initiatives were taken to protect important natural areas of great value for future generations. Among other things, we got the world's first protected area for cold-water coral reefs, a significant investment in voluntary deforestation, wetlands were preserved, and not least a number of new national parks were created. Internationally, alien species are considered one of the greatest threats to biodiversity. It is therefore an overall increase that believes that it is positive that the law contains a number of new and strict instruments to stop the introduction of alien species. Foreign plants can only be used in gardens and parks and only if there is no risk of their spreading. The Committee also agrees with the need for a separate care provision. The Soria Moria Declaration states that biodiversity loss should be halted by 2010. This is a measure right over here. It is therefore extra disappointing that this law is so late that it will not help to achieve this goal. Let me say at the same time that this law is very important, and will be very important, for the time being after this. The law will give significant leadership both in the field of nature protection and in the exploitation of land resources in the future. One of the weaknesses of the law is that it is a broad authority. It will in practice mean the centralisation of powers for directorate and county officials through regulations. This creates uncertainty for landowners and rightholders about what they can do in the future without conflicting with the provisions of the law. Let me also, in the light of civil cooperation, refer to what the representative Lien said related to emergency workers, and join me entirely in the comments that were made. Finally, let me link some comments to the replacement. The right is satisfied that a legal basis for compensation is finally established also for landscape protection areas and national parks and not just for nature reserves. However, it is not good enough that the compensation should only be granted for current use; it must be extended to the foreseeable use, as has been the case for nature reserves after the Willoch Government has in due course adopted full compensation for this form of protection. The government's bill actually makes it worse for landowners who get their properties protected as a nature reserve. With compensation only for current use, there are large randomities as to what may be provided in compensation, and in many cases the compensation may be in a clear mismatch with the actual value of the property. It must also be unequivocally stated that the owner of the land has an indispensable right to have the compensation assessed in an independent judicial body without any procedural risk. It may not be that the landowner is pressured to accept a poor offer from the State of fear that the process costs are otherwise higher than what could be won in any legal case. Let me also thank the case rapporteur who, despite a very short period of time, has dealt with this matter. Let me also say that it would have been important to have a major political debate prior to legal proceedings, not least to get the population more involved in the law, and not least to have spent much more time collecting information for the Storting in dealing with the law. This is a good law, and it is an important law, which I am happy to adopt now. But with minor changes, the law would have improved significantly. I can therefore only register that these must wait until the government change in October. I am addressing the proposals that will soon be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e226	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e230	Let me start by saying that it's a little confusing to hear an article from a representative who actually applauds the law and believes that this is a very important law, and then almost all of his speaking time is going down on the same law. It's actually a little confusing to witness. But when that is said, I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur: Very good job! I also want to say that this is a great day that many have enjoyed. Many have been on the move in the environment and professional environments. Someone's sitting here too, and they should have thank you. The law on nature protection is 40 years old and has been inadequate for a long time, as many have pointed out. Ever since the Convention on Biological Diversity, the so-called Rio Convention in 1992, it has been necessary for Norway to update its nature protection legislation. The red lists of endangered species are getting longer and longer, and every five Norwegian species are now more or less exposed or threatened. It is now urgent to take great action, and that is why we in SV are proud that our government has presented this law, which has been long-awaited. The Natural Diversity Act will be the most important tool to approach the goal of halting the loss of natural diversity by 2010. Norway now has a modern law for conservation of all nature. Today it is allowed to eradicate most Norwegian species, and it is allowed to destroy their habitats. To borrow the description of WWF Norges Rasmus Hansson: «If there is a peaceful pipe in a tree, the legislation has so far been so that I cannot kill it, but I can cut down the tree it lives in. The Nature Diversity Act reverses this, requires a professionally based administration of Norwegian nature and makes it easier to preserve the parts of nature that most need it. [[...]] [[...]] So far, we have had a wealth-based nature protection that has taken care of beautiful mountain peaks and the like. Now you get a professionally-thought-out protection." A central part of the core wall of the Nature Diversity Act is that we legislate on important environmental principles. The prior principle that doubt should benefit nature is first laid down by law, so that it applies to all the management of nature. Similarly, the principle of overall burden is also laid down, that we should not only assess the environmental impact of an action alone but look at the overall burden on the nature or ecosystem. We legislate on the principle that the respondent should bear the cost of deterioration of nature, which corresponds to the polluter pays principle of the pollution law. It is not without reason that a Joint Committee writes: ‘The proposal represents, in the Committee’s view, a milestone in the conservation and development of nature’s diversity in Norway. With this law, Norway will have a modern, holistic and forward-looking law in the field». The environmental movement also uses descriptions such as ‘milestick’, ‘great progress’ and ‘reason for congratulating Minister for Environment Erik Solheim’. It has been overwhelmingly clear from the Art Database that the main cause of biodiverse loss is habitat destruction. The new instrument of the law, selected habitat types, is therefore very important. On a scientific basis, the most threatened types of nature will be selected, and a separate regulation will automatically require municipalities that have such a nature to take care of it. The municipality cannot do anything that destroys, without thorough process and acceptance from the state. But that doesn't mean that everything is forbidden. The point is to protect the qualities that are important to nature right there. In some types of nature one must even continue or resume traditional use, such as burning, mowing and grazing. The law introduces conservation targets for all kinds of nature, so that is the result that matters, not what you do or don't do. And we're putting in place a series of grant schemes that we hope will be popular. The legislation for protected areas is largely the same as before. It is new and important that conservation objectives will also apply to protected areas and that management plans will be available at the same time as protection decisions. The processes of replacement are improved and the amounts of compensation will rise. New and important is that we now also focus on activities outside the protection area that can have influence. We also have new provisions on alien species, which are also very important. In a far more general way than in the past, important administrative principles will now apply to the sea. Conservation objectives and knowledge requirements will apply to both marine and terrestrial habitats, and principles of ‘pre-varying’ and ‘total load’ will apply to 200 nautical miles. The whole law, with a few exceptions, will apply within 12 nautical miles, which is a gigantic advance. Many respond to the fact that the Natural Diversity Act does not apply for up to 200 nautical miles. It is understandable that many are impatient, sail whether there should be reasons for international law that it has been done as it has been done. However, SV has a desire to proceed with this question. Several of the provisions of the Act are intended only for application to land and coastal areas, and several provisions are unsuitable for regulating activity outside 12 nautical miles. Other provisions, such as territorial protection, selected habitat types and priority species, may need to be adapted. It is therefore good and important that the Government will carefully assess whether these provisions can also be applied in this way, and whether this should be done under the Nature Diversity Act or under sectoral legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e268	In recent years, environmental challenges have brought most of us closer. The effects of climate change have become visible, and the need for action is evident to the large majority, both among politicians and among the population. Just because climate challenges deserve so much attention, it is all the more important to remember that the challenges for biodiversity and ecosystems are as great as the climate challenges. The technical reports are no less serious in this area. Our national laws must be able to meet these challenges. It is the task of Stortingen to ensure that we have a law that makes it possible to manage nature sustainably, so that we can leave the globe and nature to the next generation in at least as good a condition as we assumed it. That's why this is a historic day, when we adopt a law that gives us a completely different framework for the administration of Norwegian nature. But this historic day should come before. The investigation by the Bio diversity committee was carried out in the previous ageing period. The government, like several speakers, has used this entire period to prepare the proposition. It has given the Energy and Environment Committee and Stortinget less time to deal with the matter. You have to spend time on big and important things. The importance of the matter was to be thorough, but also progressed by the Government. Based on the major challenges we face in this area, and the Government's own goal of halting biodiversity loss by 2010, it is unfortunate that it has taken so long. The Christian People's Party has joined the main lines of the Government's proposal. But in one very important area, the scope of the law, we believe that the government has failed. Our management responsibilities and not least our environmental challenges do not stop along the coast. They apply equally fully in the marine areas. Here, the good intentions and environmental interests seem to have again been defeated by this government. The Christian People's Party is pleased to have the committee agree to look at the bill and a comprehensive nature management in an ideological perspective from the perspective of the administration and from the point of view of human dignity. A Joint Committee stresses that man has a fundamental responsibility for the management of nature. This means that resources have to be used in accordance with nature's resilience. In addition, the setting states: ‘A consistent view of human dignity implies a fair distribution of resources. It also gives us an obligation to defend our basis of life in such a way that we hand over the globe to our posters in at least as good a condition as when we took over it. Nature must therefore be managed with respect, on the basis of its own value and on the basis of the meaning for other people.» Global developments in population growth, increasing resource consumption and pressures on land, poverty and climate change are key elements of environmental challenges. This requires increasing focus locally, nationally and globally. I want to underline the importance of committed communities and municipalities in this work. The Christian People's Party is therefore also pleased that a Joint Committee has joined up to comments that underline the importance of good decision-making processes and good cooperation with municipalities and communities. It is well known that there are often tensions between national environmental policies and local interests. It must continue to be a priority task for us as national politicians, as for the ministry and directorate, to try to reduce these tensions as much as possible, while implementing the policies necessary to ensure natural diversity and protection values. I think it would have been a good contribution in that way if the majority had followed the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal to reduce the time for temporary protection without compensation from seven to four years. Furthermore, I believe it had now been time to close the foal that goes all the way back to the predatory settlement, which is about the possibility of using emergency warrants to protect a dog, and that this had now been legalized. However, I will end by stressing the historical perspective. I don't want to go down on the law at all. I am pleased with the law and the importance it has for the fight for natural diversity when we get the bill in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e295	The law adopted today on the management of nature's diversity is important and will have a major impact on nature conservation in the years to come. What we are doing today is a breakthrough of great importance for environmental work. There is reason to congratulate the Council of State, which has put forward a law that has been well worked out in many areas and well adapted to the challenges we face. The government's proposal contains many positive elements. It provides a common framework, principle and rules for sustainable use and protection of nature's diversity, and provides a basis for addressing challenges that current legislation does not meet today. However, the law is late. I'm sorry. The law was notified by former Environment Minister Helen Bjørnøy and Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen in 2007. This promise has not been kept. This means that important time has been lost in ensuring biodiversity. When the law is first dealt with now, it does not have any significance for halting biodiversity loss by 2010. This is a central point of the Soria Moria Declaration of the Government and a goal that has been widely endorsed in the Stortinget. The government is further weakening its efforts in this area by not setting a time for the law to come into force. In the light of this, the Left, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, promotes proposals in the position that the law should come into force from 1 January 2010. Another important point, where the bill is not good enough, is to take care of the natural values of the sea. The Government’s proposal does not include the Norwegian territorial sea outside 12 nautical miles from the coast. For these areas, there may be a greater need for a new law-enforcement facility. Nature and wildlife located outside the 12-mile zone are potentially as valuable as those within that limit. Limiting the legal framework to protection in marine areas is illogical and illogical in nature, contrary to the technical recommendations of the sample set up by the previous government to investigate precisely this law. Here the Government and government parties fail at an important point. It is an incomprehensible approach that we are now going to start an investigation in this area. If you perceived it as central and important, that's exactly what you should have done in the four years you've had at your disposal to work on the law and the questions it travels. On this basis, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, the Left has made a proposal in the position to include the sea areas in the Norwegian economic zone, with the limitations imposed by international law. Thus, one has also taken care of the objection to international law. I would like to emphasise that the Bondevik government took the initiative to protect important natural areas of great value for future generations — also at sea. Among other things, we got the world's first protected area for cold-water coral reefs, a significant investment in voluntary deforestation, wetlands were preserved, and not least a number of new national parks were created. The knowledge requirement for administration is very central and new in this bill. Scientific and experience-based knowledge shall be taken into account in the adoption, award of grants and management of public property. This is the left positive to. However, municipalities have pointed out that the law will lead to a significant increase in the need for resources to follow up the intentions of the law. In the light of this, the Left, together with the other opposition parties, promotes proposals for drawing up an action plan on knowledge building on the diversity of nature in the municipal sector. Another area where the law should have been more offensive is effective measures to prevent the introduction of alien species when importing, among others. plants. There are major challenges related to Iberias snails, likely to have come to Norway through plant imports. Despite the fact that the import system is covered by a large scheme of certification to address just such issues, these snails have come to Norway and are currently a major problem for many. Several members of the Government have repeatedly promoted declarations of war against these alien species. A natural follow-up to this should have been that efforts to limit the supply of alien species were intensified. The Left, together with the other opposition parties, is promoting the development of a scheme for the import of plants that better manages the risk of introduction of alien species, and we have the expectation that the Government may return to the Storting with the necessary legislative changes. Despite these objections, we want to conclude with what is most important: now the law is passed. It will have a major impact on the natural diversity work in Norway in the coming years, and it is absolutely necessary in an area where there is no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e321	Several have said, not least the chairman of the committee, that this is a historic day. The size is now taking the first step to adopt the most comprehensive law on the management of Norwegian nature that has ever been proposed. It is a milestone in Norwegian nature management. It is a law that will affect all areas of society and make absolutely all decisions that could somehow affect Norwegian nature. In other words, it's a happy day. But I can also be clear on such a day and agree with the criticism that has come from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, that the law could have been passed a few weeks earlier, so that it would have been better. The rapporteur, Erling Sande, has done a wonderful job of getting this through. On such a joyous day, I would also say that even the post from the Advance Party cheese of real interest in nature protection, in such a way that Tord Lien could probably have gone over to the red-green ones. I'm not going to ruin his career in the Progress Party by offering it, but there's a day of considerable harmony in the Storting, where we get through an important law. What I think is most important in the public debate, which most people may not have fully absorbed, is that this protection is to take care of animals and plants and nature blocks inside where we live. You can be for or against protection, but with protection, most people think of nature high to mountains or far away from where people live, and it's taken the attention away from this absolutely necessary work. Much of the rarest and most important part of Norwegian nature is precisely where we build homes, build roads, do business or play prom. In short: clumsy on the human beings. We have to be able to take care of nature where it is close to human activity. That's the main purpose of this law. It is also a law that will be the foundation of all work to protect natural diversity for decades to come. It is probably a law that can be improved, as all other Norwegian laws, but it will be the basis – the constitution of nature protection – for many decades to come. It's a law that forces us to prioritize what nature we think is most important to take care of. Human activity has greatly influenced nature since man's earliest phase, and we have to determine where we think it is most important to take care of it. As many have said, the law is ecosystem-based, it is knowledge-based, and it establishes the precautionary principle. The evening post wrote that it is a giga law for Norwegian nature. I agree to that. The most important concepts introduced here are ‘selected habitat types’ and ‘priority species’. Selected habitat types shall be determined by the King of State Councils so that it is not now possible to determine exactly what they should be, but typical examples of coastal lynga, mowing and river delta areas. And many of these, many of which have been involved, are not areas that have been selected because there has not been human activity there or because they are untouched. They are selected because human activity has created them in such a way that it is very important to take care of them. This means that continuing human activity, facilitating grazing or cutting meadows, must continue. It will often require money for care. This means that this is a law that only makes sense if, in the years to come, the Storing is prepared to set aside the funds for the necessary subsidies for these types of nature. I also agree with Gunnar Kvassheim that it is important to start quickly establishing which habitat types and which species you want to prioritize, so that it does not go on with unnecessary time. Several others have also said that, and I need to make sure that we get on with it quickly. The proposal for the ‘priority species’ has also been discussed by many. The crucial thing about what has been said here is that you can protect a species in your natural environment, not just protect an orchid, but protect the entire chosen nature. The legislative proposal strengthens the potential for conservation of the species by also taking care of the habitats of the species. Finally, I would like to mention that an important instrument is the measures to protect us from alien organisms. A crucial point, on which Bjørg Tørresdal was involved, is the interaction between this law and climate change. Climate change is certainly the biggest threat to Norwegian species. But precisely because climate change will come with certainty no matter what we do, we also need to do everything we can with the means we control ourselves in the short term, to take care of the species in a situation where we know that we get climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e347	If the Council of State is looking for a new Secretary of State, he should probably look elsewhere than in the Advancement Party, but otherwise it was the praiseworthy word. We must continue to facilitate activity, says the Council of State. I feel that so much that the law in some areas does. But when we come to Section 34, regulations on protection areas, which is one of the proposals of the Government, there has been some controversy between committee and department. It says to ‘renew sustainable use’. I interpret it in such a way that it will not allow for new use, which can also contribute positively to the quality of the protection area. Helen Bjørnøy often used a different term, ‘to allow uses that do not threaten the purpose of protection’. Then it would have been possible to open up new types of uses that can maintain the cultural landscape as it is today. What is the reason behind this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e354	Let me just first make it clear that there's one thing I'm really not looking for, so it's the new Secretary of State, because I have the world's best Secretary of State. It is she who has done most of the work of unbundling this law, in close interaction with the excellent Ministry of the Environment. So if someone is to be thanked today, it's not me, but Heidi Sørensen. She's done a fantastic job in this area. But if there's a need to expand the State Secretary Corps, we'd like to think of someone from the Advance Party in such a setting, if they have the environmental exposure that's shown today. Now let's do this. The important thing is not whether historical use or new use should be decisive in relation to the natural diversity law. It is whether the use, whether historical or new, promotes or inhibits the purpose of taking care of a selected nature type or species. Use can often promote taking care of it. In some cases it's the opposite. But it's the very thing to take care of the quality in Norwegian nature that must be the governing thing, whether it's new or historical use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e361	For the sake of order, I didn't want to go down on the law. I've wanted to be involved in improving the law. I experience that the Government has now created an artificial distinction between species that are in the sea, above sea level, and not least within and outside 12 nautical miles. The question to the Council of State must be whether the Council of State considers that species outside the 12-mile limit deserve a lower level of protection than species within it. Not least when you look at priority species and habitat types and look at the figures that have been presented so far in the debate, numbers from three to five years within this priority scheme have emerged. When you have an estimated 4,000 species on the red list, things will take a very long time. I am pleased that in his reply the Council of State noted that he wanted to speed up, and that must be done significantly faster than today. I hope that the Council of State can give two concrete answers to my two challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e368	Since this is a joy and a historic day, if I'm not unduly provoked, I'm not going to use the opportunity to tell you how much more we've done in this field than the Bondevik government, so let's leave it. The new thing now is that we, among other things, have a series of marine protection areas. It is in the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. We're going to put full force in that work. 35 such marine protected areas are planned. One's already on. Of course, I agree that nature does not follow boundaries either above or below water. It was Heide Steen who talked about boundaries under water, nature does not follow boundaries over water. For this reason, the basic principles of the Nature Diversity Act apply only to 200 miles. But it is also believed that some of these measures may be contrary to international law, and that is why we have not been able to spend the entire law on a total of 200 nautical miles. I would like to add that all the studies show that the overshadowing part of the vulnerable and threatened natural areas is within 12 nautical miles, 70–80 pst. by them. So it's a very big step that's being taken here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e377	I agree with the Council of State that this is a joyous day. We focus on the important thing that is being adopted today, but it is a little bit of joy that is about the scope of the law. One of the things that I do a little bit over is the professional advice and assessments that underpin the fact that this scope could also be included in the sea area of the Norwegian economic zone, with the limitations of international law issues. When it comes to exploiting the potential offered by professional advice, what was it that the Government did not fully follow these advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e384	I think we'll always be very careful to talk about the professional advice. It is true that professional advice has come to suggest that this would be possible, albeit with many difficulties. But it is equally clear that technical advice came to the contrary conclusion, that it was actually not possible to use the same concepts in the basic principle of the Nature Diversity Act as far as 200 nautical miles. Therefore, the government will look at these things further, and see if there can be further improvements in a very good law. Let me underline: 70-80 pst. of the vulnerable and protective nature lies within 12 nautical miles and many basic principles of the Nature Diversity Act apply to 200 nautical miles.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e395	I have great respect for Tord Lien. I think there's hardly anyone in the Storting that knows this law better than him. He also has a great commitment to these questions. But when we talk about a State Secretary from the Progress Party in the Ministry of the Environment, we really talk about introducing alien species. [[Laughter]] It has been a while before the law has been dealt with. That means we've lost valuable time. The left is concerned that we will get started quickly on the job to be done, and we propose the entry into force on 1 January 2010. What kind of time perspective does the Council of State have on the entry into force of the law? Does he agree that there is an urgent need to effect the legal provisions that are now widely accepted in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e402	I agree that bringing the Progress Party into the Ministry of Environmental Protection will be bringing alien species into it, so we might agree to prevent that. The Nature Diversity Act provides us with a wide range of instruments to address alien species. As regards the date of entry into force, I may come back to it in a three-minute post afterwards after consulting my office, but of course I want this law to begin to work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e409	No more words have been asked for a line. The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over, and the President will propose that we now take a break. The evening meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e443	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e446	Before the break, I was almost exposed to a threat. I was defined as an introduced species – and all of these are intended to shoot. I think it's going a little over the edge of a debate. I see that the president is skeptical, but it was an attempt to be funny, which hopefully members of the committee understood! Let me start with what I asked the Council of State questions. I think the answer he gave gives hope that we can get something reasonable. As long as the Council of State and his successors in the Council of State position take care that what is at the root of the management of Section 34 is – as the Council of State itself says – that we focus on what promotes and what inhibits the purpose of protection, this can be very good. But it requires the Council of State to follow it up. I guess it's a not insignificant number of bureaucrats who, with great enthusiasm, will oppose that goal. But I can promise that we from Stortinget's side will follow it up. So I mentioned in my first post the Soria Moria statement. There and in repeated cases in this room — and, to some extent, in the media — it has been said that local administration should be based on the large areas of protection in Norway. I note that there are government signals that when you establish protection, at least try to base local administration. I believe, however, that it should have been legal today. We promote proposals for such legislation in the case of large national parks in relation to the landscape protected areas. It's tried. The so-called Dovrefjell model has proved to be very satisfactory, it works in every way. It is not that the whole administration has been left to the local politicians. Of course, the national regulation on protection areas must be drawn up in Oslo and by the Council of State and the College of Government, but the administration and follow-up should be done by local politicians and local bureaucracies – not by the State, not by the Directorate of Nature Management, not by the State Council of Solheim, but by politicians locally, which I require to know more about what is going on in order to protect the mountain reef, the orchid and the wild rain locally. Then I just have to get a little kick to the Bondevik government. I don't think you've quite understood what we're doing today. Børge Burnde watered around the whole country of Norway, from the top of the mountain to the top of the mountain, drew a red line on a map and left the scene – without so much more than it was done. What we're doing today is laying the foundation for a whole new way of establishing and managing protective areas, which I think is far better than the way Bondevik and Børge Burnde did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e457	The last Tord line said, I can be completely united. Some of the idea behind this law is that one should follow up the areas that are protected, both when it comes to selected nature types and priority species, and one should follow up in collaboration with the local inhabitants, those who feed, those who use the land, and find good solutions. They may vary from place to place, but they can really be right to achieve their goal, simply to take care of the lack of nature. I just want to comment on the first post of the representative Tord Lien in two areas. From his post, a few impressions could be that today's practice in terms of SNO and the task of mountain government is being changed through the work on natural disasters. It's important to remember that the majority assume that what we do today when it comes to natural disasters does not lead to any change in the relationship between these two. We also ask the Government to draw up the necessary boundary lines in this area. Nor, when compensation is due as a result of grazing or regulation resulting from grazing in areas with a lot of predators, is there any change in current practice. When it comes to both compulsory and local administration – as the representative Lien was involved in his last post – I refer to the processes of the Government on these issues. We'll hopefully get a chance to come back to this room and discuss them more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 749]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e485	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e494	The representative's proposal, Document No. 8:64 for 2008-2009 on motor travel in the field, is presented by members of the Progress Party and is a widely developed legislative proposal. The Committee debated an almost identical proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:63 for 2008-2009, from members of the Right of the Stortinget today. The Committee had chosen to hold one debate, and that in Odelstinget. Nevertheless, there was a debate in Stortinget, because some do not take into account agreements. This is a 20-year-old case that various governments have pushed in front of them. At least it should be said that this matter has been thoroughly investigated. First, in 2001, a three-year trial was launched in eight municipalities. The Planning and Building Act was to be the tool, and the selected municipalities were to make municipal motor travel plans. In 2005, the Bondevik II government found out that a MoSa project was to be carried out – on motor travel and society. Why isn't it good to say? It was not until spring 2008 that the Directorate for Nature Management presented its proposal for amendments, following a 2007 consultation round. In addition, the Committee visited to learn about outdoor motor travel and how to deal with it in a community of experimentation. We thought the matter would come to Stortinget during 2008. After what the Council of State says in two letters of reply to the committee, it only comes in the next major period. It's not easy neither for those who have been in the experiment, nor for those who are outside, when the uncertainty goes over many years. Some are engaged in business and do not know if they have a future, and those who are not involved in the experiment feel excluded from what is permitted. The proposal presented by the Directorate for Nature Management on behalf of the Ministry of Environment in 2008 contains a great deal of good, but some of the content is not feasible everywhere. Local differences need to be considered. Examples include: rental services for own cabins, and not least a refusal to allow the municipalities themselves, by way of the Law on Planning and Building, to lay out loops for free movement. Such overrides become troublesome. In Norway, we have about 70,000 snowmobiles, and the number of bar area vehicles is increasing. How, then, are we going to reasonably make a law that does not trample on or override the municipalities? It's in the districts where the snowmobile is the most driven, so this is a big district policy case. The majority of the Workers' Group believe that it is best to use the Planning and Building Act to adapt it to the different local conditions and to facilitate fixed routes and snow sccoter areas through a motor travel plan. Local authorities have to decide whether to set out routes for the free movement of snowmobiles, so that recreation is located outside skiers and vulnerable areas. There must also be strict legislation for this driving. There must be frequent checks and high fines for illegal driving. No longer will anyone accept that they cannot use the vehicle they purchased. If we promise, we will experience the 1980s and 1990s again, as the ride took place on the high mountain and above all in the mountain home. There are several things in the proposals of the Progress Party that the Workers' Party could have supported, but it will be totally wrong to adopt such a comprehensive law through a private proposal. I take it as a matter of course that the matter comes to Stortinget late in 2009 as a prohibition law, but with suggestions that the municipalities among other things. be given the right of self-determination over the use of snowmobiles in the application of the Law on Planning and Building and tightening up the use of landslides. Otherwise, I assume that the Council of State will say something about the new supplementary regulations and the consultation round that is now underway on these regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e517	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough briefing on this matter. I agree with most of what she said. Therefore, I have to say that I find it a little strange that I conclude so completely different, namely that I believe that we can very well adopt this law today. It's made by a very up-and-coming guy -- I was going to say, but it might not be true in this congregation. This debate will probably be a terrible little different from the debates we had in 2006 and 2007. In 2007, there were signals from all the parties in this room that this was going to be okay by 2008 at the latest, so now the Progress Party has to stop massaging. It's now one year ago. Nothing indicates that this law can be adopted in any way before the end of this period. The case rapporteur said something else that is very correct: this matter has been thoroughly investigated. I dare say that a not insignificant number of representatives who are going to vote against this law today – without mentioning anyone in particular – have voted against the laws in this room in recent times that are probably a lot less elaborated than the motor racing law. I can mention the marriage law, which probably has not been given an as thorough round as this law has. Then there is someone who is trying to present it as if this debate is about whether one is for or against nature protection, for or against the silence of nature, etc. It doesn't. On the other hand, it is about who will manage the national provisions that we will adopt in this Chamber. And it is so that in his wisdom a former government opened up to a probationary system. It concerned municipalities such as Sirdal, Lom, Stor-Elvdal, Røros, Hattfjelldal, Fauske and not least Vinje. In Vinje Municipality we are so lucky that we have an SV rapporteur – apparently a very sensible one – and he says the following about the scheme: ‘Scuter club has also done a good holding job among its members.’ Further: ‘The system of testing with recreational loops has undoubtedly led to less illegal driving.’ And... ‘If today’s system were to fall away and one is back to old arrangements for 700 legally purchased shooters who would be largely illegal to use, then an immediate return to situations that create conflicts and low respect for laws and regulations.’ It is the case that the law, as a majority today, provides its support when it is not decided to replace the old motorcycling law with the one we are promoting, has no legitimacy in the large Norwegian out-lands. It's never had that either. Then we talk about Troms, Nordland, Nord-Trøndelag, South-Trøndelag, all the way down the Swedish border, Telemark. And so by adopting a law that nobody respects, you don't achieve anything. Because it's just where there's good local, certain administration with great legitimacy of those who actually own a scooter, you can channel traffic to the areas where you want to travel, and prevent traffic in those areas where you don't want to travel. I'm not going to use up my speaking time. I expect that we'll gradually get a lot of exciting explanations as to why you're voting against this law. I look forward to that with great enthusiasm. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e548	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e551	It is obvious that the right is in relation to the agreements concluded in the Committee. And I strongly disagree with the insinuation of the case rapporteur. We can't cut people off from participating in a debate in this room just because they're in Lagtinget and not in Odelstinget. That was the case for our representative, who, of course, has a democratic right to use this pulpit to express his views. The rapporteur should know that. Let me just briefly add to that reference to what was said by the Right-wing Party during the examination of Document No. 8:63 in 2008-2009, and at the same time adding that in terms of the time aspect here, this is once again one of the cases in which we have repeatedly argued over the entire four-year period, not least towards the end, how internal disagreement within the Government has resulted in matters either not being presented, or being presented very late, so that we break our own promises, which means that the Storting will receive treatment that is not appropriate or timely, as in the previous debate on the Law on Natural Diversity. I am addressing the proposal on which the Right is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e560	Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e563	Odelstingen has just dealt with a new law laying down the framework for the management of Norwegian nature. The law assumes that the management of nature and diversity of species must be carried out in a balance where there is room for using nature's possibilities within the framework of nature's resilience and sustainability. Of course, the question of motor travel must be dealt with on the same premises. The Christian People's Party does not support the Progress Party in the legislative proposal under consideration, because we believe that the proposal does not take enough account of the challenges that motor travel can pose for nature and outdoors. The Christian People's Party wants continued strict regulation in this area. The growing prosperity and technological development have provided more and more opportunities to acquire equipment and tools in everyday life that were previously reserved for the few. This also applies to motorised means of propulsion in the outland, such as snowmobiles and so-called four-wheelers. It does not reduce the need to regulate motor travel in the field. At the same time, it is also important to recognise that the use of motor vehicles in the field is important for many, especially in the nutritional context. Therefore, it is important to have a regulatory framework that best respects both nature, outdoor experiences and noise issues and the consideration of people’s well-being and opportunities for feeding in rural communities. So it has to be said that there are examples that it is common sense to use these vehicles. For example, snowmobile rides on the snow to catch up by winter do less damage to nature than if one does exactly the same in summer, using a tractor. The regulation of outland motor travel is a conflict theme. I believe that most of the representatives in this Chamber, whatever the state, have experience of it. Nevertheless, clarifications are now important when political processes are under way. Therefore, as the four opposition parties point to in the vote, it is critical that the Government has let the years go by and the decisions lie. Internal conflicts appear to make the Government the paralysis of action in environmental policy. On several occasions, expectations have been created that the proposal for new legislation would be presented during the current large-scale period. It is therefore also difficult to deal with the letters of the Council of State to the Committee in connection with the proposal under consideration. It says: «The Government intends to promote a legislative proposal during the current year.» This is a matter of concern to many people. No rules in this area can also make everyone a team. Nevertheless, it is unfortunate for environmental management and policy that such long processes may be such as gnawing and irritating – simply because the responsible are unable to reach a decision. Environmental policy deserves better. The environmental issue is so important that it deserves a powerful government. Not everyone will be satisfied when the new legislation comes. But now there are a lot of people who are unnecessarily frustrated, because they're waiting for a clarification that should have come, but that's not coming. Environmental policy is not served by a government that pushes difficult issues rather than making decisions. This was also a call to the Government to get on the road quickly in this question, to which everyone is waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e590	The centre party wants to strengthen local control over motor travel in the outfield. Local authorities must, among other things: allow the creation of restricted loops for leisure and recreation with snowmobiles, through processes permitted in the planning and building laws. The government has started work on a new proposal for motor travel laws in the fields and watercourses, and aims to promote a proposition on this in the course of the current year. The centre party will therefore not endorse the proposals we are discussing today. But I'm going to use the post to say a little bit about what the Center Party thinks should be the framework and the pillars of that work, from our point of view – that is, what is the Central Party's agreed policy in this area. The center party believes that motorcyclists have to take care of the business that is going on in the field. The management of this area must be as unbureaucratic as possible. In the Central Party, we have confidence that the municipalities will be able to enforce the law in the next round, so that one will have a locally anchored practice, which may differ from one municipality to another. Today's law is practiced very differently in different municipalities in the country. For the Centre Party, this is a sign that geographical differentiation is necessary. Local freedom of action must be stressed. Municipalities must be able to regulate motor travel in outland areas through plans based on planning and building laws, such as creating loops for recreation, organising leases or evaluating other solutions if the situation so warrants, and planning solutions for commercial transport by helicopter and airsports. The centre party believes that there should be a general right to the running of agricultural and rural activities, with the exception of travel life, and that it should be opened so that travel life can be granted multi-annual privileges by the municipality. Negligible land should not be subject to the law and the monitoring of the run-up to land must be strengthened. The centre party has concluded that motor travel in land and watercourses must be limited and regulated by consideration of the environment and natural experiences. But it is central that the law has legitimacy in the people. We think, therefore, that one has to change the law so that it becomes more in line with the general perception of justice that people have. Motor travel in land and watercourses should then be bounded by a real and effective enforcement of the law. There must be greater emphasis on getting the illegal run to life, rather than making more offenders. Finally, let me say that it is gratifying that the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right seem to support under the Central Party's starting point on this matter, and that they refer to our politicians in their own Document No. Eight proposals. We have no tradition of making such extensive laws directly through representative proposals in Stortinget. Such laws must, like others, be properly handled. But we would like to come back to this room and debate motor travel in the outfield, when the government has presented the work that is announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e605	This debate on outdoor motor travel has tended in Norway to be marked by the absolute extremes, which I think are very small. I totally reject the idea that the population should be able to be divided into two groups – where one group only seeks silence and tranquillity, does not want something to happen in the woods and will just sit quietly night and day and listen to the sounds of the woods, while the other group just wants to run as much on scooters as possible, make troubles and specks and take no account of their surroundings. I think the vast, wide majority of the population – I have used the term here before: the silent majority – is in a group that wants compromise, wants to find viable ways that allow us to have both natural experiences with silence and calmness, but also allow scooter driving for specific purposes. It is the government's aim to find such compromises, and I think it is sad when the debate is sometimes marked by absolute extremes. One of the things that has created misunderstandings is that a proposal was made to the Directorate for Nature Management, which some see as a proposal from the Ministry of Environment, or as a government policy. I have given a very clear instruction to the Directorate of Nature Management, in the same way as to the State pollution control: we should not have political censorship of this kind of professional advice, which many former governments have practiced, where the under-death is not allowed to present what they really mean, for fear of political leadership. The floors shall provide what they consider to be correct. The Directorate for Nature Management shall know that they have the support of the Council of State to present what they think. That is how we – that is, government and greatness – are going to find the compromises with other societal considerations. The proposal that has been put forward is a reflection of the debate, but of course not the final one. The Government aims to present a proposal for treatment in the Storting during the year, but the Ministry of the Environment – in this case I – is already presenting some changes to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the field and on ice-cold watercourses this summer. These are responsible modernisations that do not go at the expense of natural experiences and nature. Firstly, changes extend access to commercial use of motor vehicles. Examples include the operation of rental cabins, the commercial harvesting of natural goods, tourism and tourism activities, exploration and exploration of mineral resources. Another theme is to provide access for group trips on snowmobiles for residents of health care institutions and members of pension funds or disabled persons. This must be done under the direction of health institutions and non-profit institutions serving households; there must be defined targets or trajectories chosen by municipalities. No changes are made to the law or regulation on the rules for the use of motor vehicles on snow-covered land in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, nor are there any changes to the legislation for the use of snowmobiles between motorway and cab located more than 2,5 km from the bridged motorway. The municipalities are still responsible for the practice of this provision. This means that there is an opportunity to apply to the municipality for permission to drive snowmobiles to their own cabin. The municipalities which have had pilot schemes with other motor traffic regulations are given the opportunity to continue this legislation until further notice. A project is also being launched to tighten up the use of vehicles on land parcels in Finnmark. That project shall culminate in proposals for measures to reduce the use and adverse effects of the use of motor vehicles on land. So all in all, the government is already making a number of modifications to this so that we can have a practical code with which the vast majority of the population can live. And then I'm going to ask the Storting to encourage a debate where we avoid this absolute counter-pole, where someone doesn't show any understanding at all that snowmobiles are a legitimate tool in District Norway, and others think that you should be able to drive exactly where you want, exactly in what way you want, without taking any account of your surroundings. These extremes should not be allowed to characterise this debate, where 80-90 pst. Of the population, we certainly agree that we need good and sensible rules that we can all practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e623	At least I don't take any self-criticism that I've given the impression that this is about two groups facing each other. I fully agree that a large majority wants a compromise. When a government council comes to the Stortinget to discuss a matter that has been promoted as a bill by the undersigned and the rest of my party, it is alarming that the Council of State does not comment on that proposal at all in its intervention. I record that he spends most of his time commenting on a prescription that Stortinget has nothing to do with. The representative Sande said that he wanted and expected a bill that also allows the municipality to open ice fishing loops and run for recreational driving. Is it also the intention of the Council of State to present a bill that opens the way for ice fishing and opens the way for recreation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e634	I realized that I commented on the proposal by saying that during the year – when we are re-elected – we in the Government will present proposals for a comprehensive regulatory framework in this area, and will, of course, come back to all these individual issues that can be promoted, such as the one with ice fishing that was highlighted here. I understand that there's a lot of commitment and great interest around all of these questions, and it would be wrong to take out one or two of them now before we can see the whole thing in it. I have also explained the various regulatory changes that we want to make now, for practical purposes, to clarify the debate at this point in front of the next scooter season. And then the Storting to the autumn or winter will come back to a closer discussion of the entire code.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e641	I thank you for the opportunity to ask another question. We have been doing this for three and a half years, and it is the other Minister for the Environment who is standing here. The Council of State has also promised us in writing that this matter will be resolved before the session ends. What has changed, which means that we should now have confidence that the Government will actually deliver in this case, when you have previously said that you will deliver without doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e650	Now it is very important to stress that we have not dealt with this matter without there being any legislation. There have been rules in this area throughout this period, so there have been clear rules for what you can do and what you can't do. Some of these are adjusted by what we're now submitting. The pilot schemes that have been set up will be continued, so that everything allowed in the pilot scheme will apply until a new legislation is created. There is no reason to hide that the reason why it takes time to establish a code in this area is exactly what I said: there are strong feelings, and there is no easy task to find the necessary balance between the fact that the scooter has come to stay in District Norway and so far many other places as well, and that none of us want this to take completely over in Norwegian outland.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e655	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e660	In contrast to our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, Norway is most likely to be seen as a developing country in facilitating motorised travel in the countryside and, in particular, recreational snowmobile rides in the winter. There is also reason to say that today's legislation on snowmobile use is, with respect to reporting, completely out of date here in the country. We see that the number of snowmobiles is increasing dramatically all over the country, while the authorities are turning backwards into the future and believe that you can ban this amazing means of generation and recreation that snowmobiles are actually too many who live in Norwegian districts. With snowmobiles we all, fresh, sick and old, have an excellent opportunity to get into nature and use the great joys of nature. The use of snowmobiles in marked lanes is, in my view, the future of motorised traffic in outland in Norway during winter. We should let the municipalities decide for themselves whether they will set up a loop network for organized recreation with scooter winter time. This is what we see they have done successfully in Finland and Sweden, but Norway is following. It's only Finnmark who might be in the vicinity of having a similar code for this as our neighboring country. It is not surprising that the use of snowmobiles is a major asset for many outlying municipalities today, and for the inhabitants who live there. Let me say it this way: Just as little as we can deprive the southerners of the right to drive jolles in the archipelago in summer time, we can in the future refuse people in outlying municipalities to drive snowmobiles in the mountains, or where it might be. It is also true that today's snowmobiles are both environmentally friendly, noise-weak and they do not cause any – that is my claim – environmental damage of significance to Norwegian nature. When the snow thaws in the spring, it's actually not a single track to see where the scooter loop lay on the snow wintertime. This ban line against snowmobiles in Norway is doomed to failure. People will, if you don't get a national regulation with local government, settle themselves and use the scooter in the districts, and almost run out of law wherever they want. There are no parties here on the Stortinget who want such wild Texas states in the Norwegian mountain cottage. It is therefore important to incorporate this into regulated legal forms, in line with the proposal of the Progress Party here in this very specific proposal for a representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e673	The scooter has come to stay, says the Council of State. I hope he's right in that. As far as the regulation is concerned, it's an expression where I come from that kind of scheme, and it's tile nailing. At the same time, I want to follow up what my colleague Torbjørn Andersen said, because we can drive speedboats with several hundred horsepowers for 100 km an hour with 0.8 in per mill throughout the Norwegian archipelago, but snowmobiles cannot be driven anywhere with the law in hand. It's a paradox. Then I would like to thank the Christian People's Party, because I and the Group of the Progressive Party have spent a lot of time making this bill, and then it is good to hear that there is actually one party that takes a stand on the political content we are proposing here, and that comments on the political content of the matter, so that the debate is actually about it and not about formalities. I think that's very good. I also think the representative Tørresdal said something important, namely that everyone will not be satisfied. No, it's probably the case in a number of areas of national, overall policy, that there are many who are dissatisfied. But then we have to ask what principles we're going to apply. Should we take into account the principle that State Council Solheim will sit in Oslo and decide where and when it is allowed to run snowmobiles, which grandmothers will be driven up the mountain, and which grandmothers will not be driven up the mountain? I believe that this task belongs to local politicians around Norway. They're best able to take care of it. They are best able to find the balance between the consideration of natural diversity, the consideration of peace and tranquillity in nature and the consideration of those who want to move in Norwegian nature with snowmobiles. I think it's funny when the representative Sande says it's good that the Progress Party and the Right support the Central Party's policy. It is good that someone in this room defends the central party's policy, because the centre party does not. We have today to deal with the emergency army paragraph, the local administration of the national parks, motor travel in the outland and the small power regime, and the Senterpart itself has left the boat. The foreign policy has now been taken over by the Progress Party. It's a role I'm very familiar with, and I also hope that the Central Party's voters now see that the party that manages traditional local foreign policy issues is the Progress Party. I am very pleased that the representative Sande confirmed this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e688	I understand that the representative Lien has a hope of continuing this debate. I don't know how to comment on the collusion of matters that the representative raised here, and refers to what I have said. The centre party's positions are clear. We are now dealing with many of these issues in processes in the government where the central party's positions are clear. On the day that the Central Party's district voters left us in favour of the Progress Party, they have also failed to integrate into the Progress Party's overall district policy, which will have quite different consequences than the consequences that it will have for the Government to spend a lot of time working things out, for example. the things we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e695	Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e698	I had the great pleasure of being a committee colleague with another representative from the Center Party, Ola Borten Moe. When he was dissatisfied with something at the time the state councillor Helen Bjørnøy did, he went to the pulpit in Stortinget and said clearly from: I like this very badly. He would like to call the Nation and a couple of other Norwegian national media and say the same thing. I think the centre party and Erling Sande had stood by to be clear and clear that the bill that the Progress Party is promoting today is something Erling Sande really wants to vote for, but most probably won't. In the course of today's debate, we have startled each other with various posts around. But so it is that a voice at Erling Sande is a voice at Erik Solheim as Minister of Environmental Protection for the autumn. And the same state council has said today that he cannot conclude that recreational loops and ice fishing loops are something that will come into a new law. I think that is a clear signal to take forward in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e707	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2, [[Footing, see page 768]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e724	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e741	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e752	The energy sector, with its production and total network infrastructure, represents enormous values and has long been identified as the pillars of the welfare and industrial state itself, as our history has shown to be right. Of course, it is not enough to have safe and good production and a network in place. With the introduction of the new Energy Act, with effect from 1 January 1991, the basis was also improved for the rational and cost-effective use of our large resources. Although the Energy Act provides for increased market orientation, the Energy Act and the Energy sector can combine with social governance through legislation, regulation, supervision, control, concessions, public ownership, support schemes, etc. It is within these frameworks that we are now amending some aspects of the Energy Act. As the rapporteur for the amendments to the law, of course, I am very pleased that the committee is united on all the amendments to the law. More important than being satisfied, it is obvious that the provisions of the Energy Act and the device have the broad anchoring in an overall staging that it has had, and will still have. It is a great strength for the country's future energy policy under changing political regimes. Some key points: The Government is fully associated with the obligation to connect to the generation that gives power producers the right to network. Of course, this is important for security of supply and for the connection of more renewable energy, such as: wind and small power. The government is fully committed to the obligation of connectivity for consumption at all levels of the network as we receive a legalisation of the current practice of connectivity for consumption in the regional and central networks, which is therefore covered by the universal service obligation. Furthermore, there is full agreement to impose a concession obligation on low-pension installations by the general rule that plant and area concessionaires must be responsible for the construction and operation of such facilities in the interests of both customers, technical solutions and systemic operations. A Joint Committee also stresses that many interests should be combined and that much more attention should be paid than in the past to the environment, climate, landscapes, outdoors, other industries, the needs of the community and the needs of the large community. Furthermore, an overall committee is taking over, and the Government agrees, that an increasing network investment needs to be provided now, with reinvestments in old networks and increased expansion in order to capture renewable production. This can of course have consequences for the future network lease. A single committee emphasises that, in order to obtain the necessary investments in networks, several factors such as direct regulation, income regulation, supervision and control must work together. The Committee also endorses the assessment by the NVE of alternative cost standards models in the regional and central networks – models that can provide good incentives for right network investments. An overall committee has noted that the NVE is now carrying out work to assess the social impact of a tariff equalisation, where the central network is extended to include the regional network. This work also includes consideration of the possibilities for balancing tariffs in the distribution system. The right hand party and the Progress Party have stood outside of a comment, where the other batches indicate that the Government will indicate that it will consider measures to offset the differences in the transmission tariffs. However, the Committee concentrates on the Government's proposal that there should still be different tariffs for different customer groups, but that tariffs can be set centrally and be the same throughout the country for the different customer groups. All parties, except the members of the Left and Christian People's Party, have argued that it does not seem possible to achieve the goal of the climate agreement to increase energy efficiency in the electricity grid and in power generation by 20 pst. from a technical and environmental point of view. Although opposition parties have their own comments and proposals relating to technological solutions with a view to safe and safe transmission of power in vulnerable natural areas, a joint committee on cable policy on page 9 of the vote states: ‘With cabling, in particular with a sea cable, the possibilities for connecting to such production may be limited.’ — Special reference is made to new renewable energy. Furthermore, the Committee points out that the proposal sets out a broad outline of the issues relating to cabling: ‘The use of cable as an alternative to air pipeline shall always be considered when building new power lines at all voltage levels. In particular, earth cables may be a good measure in the distribution system.’;» The Committee has also pointed to the high nature interventions and very high costs, security of supply and long repair times that could result in high voltage cables. While the Committee has also highlighted the development of new technologies in this area, the opposition parties have proposed to set up a selection to go through the technologies. Of course, this can be done, but I think that such a proposal is completely unnecessary, because of course NVE and OED have the necessary skills both to follow this development and to be drivers of new technologies. I also believe that the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to draw up their own guidelines for cable transmission is unnecessary. This is well covered in this proposition. There is also a solid majority of the clarifications in the Energy Act that concessionaires are required to have the necessary control and control over electrical installations and district heating systems. The majority thus supports the requirement that ownership will apply both to network facilities and production facilities which have a concession. For example, the change in the law will: however, there may be several owners in a district heating plant, provided that there is one owner who controls all assets and stands as a concessionaire through contracts, in the same way as there may be several owners of a power plant, but only one company standing as a concessionaire. The Energy Act states that customers should have freedom of choice for the supplier, and that we should therefore not have facilities that say “locks” inside customers. Concerns have been expressed from, for example: housing laws that were early out with the joint purchase of electricity. They have expressed concerns about the assessment of the use of joint measurement and the risk of unfair disclosure. NVE now has out-of-court rules, with a deadline of 1 July, such as: deals with this. As I understand it, it is that customers who live in housing companies, housing blocks, etc., will remain free to interact with the purchase of power, which has provided price advantages as a wholesaler. I assume this is clearly clarified by the work on reviewing the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e805	There is no special need for any long-term intervention by the Progress Party in this matter, since the Progress Party is largely in line with the proposed amendments to the Energy Act promoted in this oligopolistic proposition. As the rapporteur said in his statement, an overall committee is behind most of this position. However, I would just like to make it very brief that the Progress Party believes it is very important to design a law that provides the basis for a forward-looking network policy, and that facilitates the best possible connection to the network of new generation of electrical energy. At the same time, it is an overall objective of the Progress Party to have a robust and well maintained network at all voltage levels, which provides a high level of security of supply across the country and provides an acceptable level of network rental for end-users. All responsible regulatory bodies must continuously strive to maintain a local, regional and national electricity network that is both adequately maintained and is simultaneously dimensioned in order to manage a significant cross-regional transmission capacity in the event of regional imbalances in the electricity supply. At the same time, the central network must have sufficient transmission capacity and import capacity from the rest of the world in order to guarantee security of supply even in possible national dry years. The Progress Party will also make it clear that we must have an energy law that does not prevent flexible new and appropriate solutions for the organisation of the energy industry. Security of supply and security of supply are two aspects of the same issue that it is important to have full control over, both through competent professional bodies, legislation and through a certain degree of political governance. To the extent that the Progress Party is critical to some of the content of the proposal, we are calling for clearer guidelines on how to finance initial investments and extensions of the network by linking new production. In the case of a network investment triggered by the interconnection obligation, a reasonable cost allocation between the network operator and the power builder must be possible. Therefore, in our view, clearer guidelines on the cost allocation between network carriers and, where appropriate, the level of plant contribution for power builders should be developed soon. It is also necessary to establish good processes to demonstrate whether an investment in power generation is socially viable or not. The progress party therefore agrees that there must be a derogation from the obligation to connect in cases where it has to be found that it is too expensive for the network company or that it is developing a new route to a rather remote small power plant. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is important to make some proposals in this matter in order to help correct some of the things that we believe are too poorly explained in the actual odelstningsproposition. In that case, I just think that I should raise the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e822	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e825	The rapporteur has explained in an excellent way how the parties have dealt with this matter, and to which reference is made, it is marked by a very large consensus. From the Right, at least we are very pleased that the principles of the Energy Act are passed on as such and that these are not being rocked. This is a major and important matter, and the consultation process at least made it clear that this proposition is hardly responding to all the major challenges we face in this area in the coming years. Before I forget that, I'd like to make a suggestion that we're behind. I would just like to comment briefly on the proposal, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines for the transmission of cables in the central network which allow for increased use of earth or sea cables in conflict areas and where alternative cables can reduce the level of conflict and the burden on the environment.’;» It is referred to as unnecessary. I just want to repeat briefly that in this area, we are facing very major challenges, perhaps the greatest challenge of putting new renewable energy in place in Norway. This is just as much about infrastructure and networks, and there's no imagination to realize that we also want to move into conflict-filled areas. This whole debate, a lack of action, a lack of momentum, is marked by the keyword ‘conflicts’. That is why we should take this seriously. The consultation process also made it clear that we need better coordination between networks, production and consumption. We also need a much wider review of network policy. Because, as mentioned above, although today’s suspension is marked by consensus, we face significant challenges in this area – challenges that may also have the concept of ‘conflict’ clearly incorporated into them. We also need a review of financial instruments for net investment. As we know, these don't come of themselves. The size is likely to have a strong need to also discuss the types of incentives that can be put in to address the need for network investment. We also need an increased review of the financial regulation of the transmission system companies. These are areas where the proposition doesn't answer. Thus, although the concept of ‘social governance’ remains a red thread in the entire proposition, there are quite a number of important questions that are not answered there. In the proposal, the Government has not taken a decision on how to finance investments arising from an obligation to associate. The government has therefore disregarded important factors in order to trigger the necessary investments. The amount of energy obtained from a wind power plant, for example, is significantly lower than in the case of hydropower plants with the same power because of much less efficient production hours per. years. This reduces the capacity to bear costs related to network development, as costs have to be allocated to a lower number of kWh than to hydropower. It is therefore close to the fact that the network owners concerned will require a plant contribution from the electricity producer in order to ensure cost coverage. Construction contributions will be an instrument for achieving socio-economic correct solutions and ensuring a proper allocation of costs of network construction. The right also believes that it is important to avoid local populations having to bear costs in terms of increased network rentals in order to achieve national political ambitions for increased wind power generation or to increase hydropower generation. It is necessarily not that the consumption of energy is located where energy is produced and vice versa. Therefore, it is important to stress that these issues relating to the allocation of costs need to be seen in a wider and broader light. The total income of the network companies in Norway is determined by the total network capital invested in Norway and the reference rate determined by the NVE for returns on invested capital. It is this pot that the network companies are squeezing about when to set the income framework. After today's regulation, only 40 pst. of the income framework of each network company based on its own costs, while 60 pst. is based on industry’s standard costs. Standard costs are determined by efficiency analyses comparing the level of costs incurred by the network operators. The companies with lower costs than the norm receive higher returns than companies with higher costs. The consequence of this is that when a company incurs costs of reinvesting in the network, or builds capacity for related new production, it will primarily be networked companies that do not have such costs, which increase their income framework and returns. Regulations thus act in practice so that if a company invests in the network, this company will have a low return on the investment. Companies that do not invest are left with a gain as a result of others investing. Today’s model thus gives a signal of holding back and investing less than what is socially desirable. In this area, the proposition does not respond to the need for a review of this fine-tuning and detailed central governance of the country’s network company and indirectly contributes to the passive and mitigation of the need for investment in network structures in Norway. The right also goes against the proposal in the proposal to amend the Energy Act §3-1, 3-2 and 5-1, so that the compulsory activity includes owning electrical and district heating installations as well as building and operating such installations. We believe that the lack of ownership of installations does not necessarily mean that the companies have poorer control of the facilities. On the contrary, many experience suggests that it may be rational for several concessionaries to cooperate on operational solutions. The necessary control can be ensured in a good way through contractual regulation between the owner and the operating company. How do the objectives of building an efficient and robust network that can address the need for increased production of new renewable energy in Norway? Do we do this by getting even more network companies in Norway? The answer is, of course, no. We have 72 regional network companies in the country. We must now be willing to see the central and regional network in a context. We have been involved in the regulation of the network companies. We also need to avoid getting actors involved in network operations that have nothing to do there, and the state's own coloss, the elephant, Statkraft, has definitely, in the Right's view, nothing to do in the network area. It becomes a competitive grey zone, sponsored by the Norwegian State, which at least does not strengthen the customer’s interests in this area. We are also very critical that the proposition does not state that the network policy and the network regulation regime should be aligned with Norway’s climate objectives and commitments by 2020. In conclusion, I just want to say that we are all facing significant challenges in this area, and I expect that, in a new period of growth, we will have ample opportunity to discuss the needs to take new steps in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e865	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e868	Norway needs a built-in and robust transmission system for electricity across the country and abroad. There is a need to renew the network in many places and prepare the network for more extreme weather as a result of climate change. The development of the network and the obligation to connect to production also facilitate the increased use of renewable energy. These are important aspects of the legislative changes that have been presented now and are being adopted today. It is important for the transition from oil economy to future industries based on new renewable energy sources that we get momentum on the development. The SV's vision for energy policy is to make Norway an environmentally friendly energy storm power. A major effort on energy saving and energy efficiency improvement must be an important part of this transition. Instead, when we discussed the Wefsna, among other things, and the protection of watercourses, I was told that only in construction we have a saving potential of 15 TWh. In addition, we also have the potential to do something about upgrading the network that exists today. A large-scale commitment to new renewable energy will form the basis for a new eco-friendly industrial development in Norway. That's at least what we hope for. We believe that Norway will also have a high potential for pure energy exports in the future. We've started that, but that potential can get much bigger, especially if we stop using electricity to warm up houses. In addition, it will be important to export energy-intensive products produced with pure energy. This is our advantage in Norway through, for example, hydropower. To exploit this potential and to meet the requirements we are going to have, among other things. through the EU's renewable directive, we must also make major investments in the network in the future. At the same time, the development of the network is often conflicted. The government and the majority of the population therefore underline that the development of networks should take greater environmental considerations and take into account aesthetics and local communities. The use of cable as an alternative to overhead contact line shall always be considered when building new power lines at all voltage levels. The changes in the Energy Act are one important instrument for increasing the production of new renewable energy. Then we must also have other instruments such as research and development and direct grants. SV is particularly pleased that we have resumed negotiations with Sweden on green certificates, which we have also discussed earlier today. We hope, as I said, that there will be a solid and ambitious agreement for the autumn. For SV, it is also important that the Government will look at the possibilities for equalisation of transmission tariffs on a national basis, including common national network tariffs. I'd like to stress that, because that's what we're going to need now because of the changes that we're going to make here. LVK is one of the hearing bodies that has pointed this out. We expect full pressure on the work to bring about more effective flattening of tariffs and, preferably, common national tariffs. I'm just doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e889	The importance of electricity in a modern society need no further description. The power grid is critical infrastructure such as the energy authorities and we as elected representatives need to be more committed to it. However, the power grid is also increasingly important because climate challenges make new demands on energy policy. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has promoted a proposition aimed at facilitating access to the renewable energy network. The Christian People's Party believes that the obligation to connect will work positively in terms of network-production coordination and gives a clear signal to networks that society wants to develop more renewable energy. However, the effectiveness of the new legislation remains an unanswered issue. There has therefore been a tendency to oversell this law change by the Government. For example, an obligation to connect does not automatically provide that: a wind turbine builder has access to the network. The proposal provides for exemption from the obligation of connectivity if the project is not socially rational. As has been pointed out both in committee consultation and in the consultation of the legislative proposal, it remains unclear how this concept will be interpreted in practice. For example, it will. provide different answers, whether socio-economic profitability is calculated on the basis of today’s power market and market price expectations, or whether the climate agreement is based on the basis of how much renewable energy we need before 2020 in order to meet the Stortinge target of 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. It's obvious to me that that's the last starting point that's most relevant. However, there is no indication in the proposition that the Ministry is using such an approach. Increased investment in the power grid is needed in the years to come. It is important to point out that the most effective means of ensuring network investments both in the upgrading and maintenance of existing networks and in the connection of new renewable production is to provide network operators with stronger investment incentives in network regulation. We get clear signals from the industry that they don't have the right incentives today. Therefore, it was to be expected that the government had used this opportunity to announce that it would take a hold on this. It hasn't happened. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the network regulation is being reviewed. Then we're going to hope that the government will come to this recognition in the course of its review, if it should now happen that it will also sit after the election. As I said, it is positive that the Government has finally presented a document on network policy. It is surprising, however, that the Government does not introduce the Internet policy into its context. Web policy is a tool in the Energy and Climate Policy Toolbox. There's little or nothing in the proposition that shows that the government sees it this way. The development of power lines is also an important question of nature protection, as power lines are known to be natural interference. I understand from the proposition that the Government will place greater emphasis on the environment and aesthetics in the construction of power lines. It is good, but it is difficult to see what practical consequences this can have, and whether this will actually lead to more wiring when important natural values are affected. Finally, it must be clear that the emphasis on aesthetics and nature in 2009 should be higher than it had ten or 20 years ago. I refer in this context to proposals from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. This changed emphasis should be clarified in the new guidelines, so as to have a practical impact on the choices made when the important decisions are to be taken in each project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e909	Earlier today, we have discussed several climate issues. I will not repeat what has been said there, but only again underline the need for an increased commitment to renewable energy. Norway has ambitious targets, we have rich natural resources, but the energy doesn't get where he's going, but the grid is in place. A well-functioning network is simply a device to generate the renewable energy that we want to be produced. Worse weather requires a robust network as well. In addition, we need to ensure that the whole country has a robust and secure supply of sufficient power, so we have a good transmission system throughout the country. The centre wants a heavy commitment to increased renewable energy production, e.g.: small and wind power. Today’s system may be a bottleneck for increasing investment on the renewable side due to lack of capacity in the network. The bill on, inter alia: the obligation to associate new production facilitates the early deployment of green jobs and renewable energy production. The obligation to connect provides power producers with a right to connect to the network if production and networks combined are socially rational. If there is no capacity in the network for the new production, network owners may be required to invest in network solutions that ensure what has previously been referred to as network rights. It will clearly be a lever to bring up more renewable production. There is a significant need for net investment in the future, not only because of the focus on increased renewable production, but also because old grids have to be replaced, and we have to expect an upgrade that results from greater extreme weather, which means that the network needs to become more robust. Therefore, network policy must be designed in such a way as to provide incentives for investment. And it is, as many people have pointed out here today, that there is a need for a larger and more extensive work in this area that can ensure a web policy for the future that gives the right incentives. Wind and water resources are created in the districts. That's why it's a big paradox that today's online tariff works so that it's often where people pay the most on-line rent. Today, the difference between the cheapest and most expensive providers on the website is 33 øre per. kWh, and the most expensive is over twice as expensive as the most affordable. We can't accept that. For the centre part, it is a very important thing to smooth web leases in such a way that the supply of electricity is just as expensive no matter where a cage is. The fact that the Government is now setting up common web sites for everyone is therefore a good news for consumers. It is also quite obvious that creating a will and enthusiasm for the production of renewable energy in different parts of the country where the potential is high cannot be achieved by putting the bill on the inhabitants who live in that particular area. Regional imbalances in power supply have given us some demanding situations. The situation in Central Norway is well known. We must also be aware of the mountain area. Experience from this has shown us how important it is to have good coordination of network deployment, production and consumption. There is no doubt that the development of networks is something that engages people, especially in communities. We politicians are sometimes contacted by people who have strong views about how the force is just to be brought through their districts. It's not surprising. The challenge is that the force does not appear completely without natural interference. Network construction is a balancing art. The air voltage is usually the cheapest, but it can be hazy for those who behave in the area where the air voltage goes. Furthermore, cables cannot be made without natural interference. One can sometimes get the impression by righting the debates, but there are also natural interventions by wiring both when the cables are in the ground and in the sea. In addition to being far more costly than air voltage, cables are often more difficult to access when connecting to new production or repairing any faults. The scalings are not simple. I am pleased that the proposal opens up the possibility of increasing the use of remedial measures such as traséval, camouflage, landscape-adapted linen design, bird care and assessment of cables on a case-by-case basis. The proposal to amend the Energy Act is good news for consumers, and it is good for green jobs and for the climate. At the same time, I would like to point out that the concession treatment should focus on open processes with an impact from the interest groups, as outlined in the bill. That is why I think we are handling a good bill today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e936	It is true, as many have pointed out, that there is a broad consensus on the proposal for revision of the Energy Act under consideration today. One of the reasons why there is broad agreement on the proposal being presented is that it continues the main principles of the Energy Act. It supports the Left. We record that the forces that want a change of fundamental aspects of the Energy Act, including: as expressed on the part of the Centre Party, fortunately no progress has been made. We continue a market-based law that is a positive foundation both for consumers and for good use of resources. I would like to comment on a few points, although there is a broad consensus about many and good proposals that are being presented. I am amazed that the government parties in the climate agreement were involved in a goal of increasing the efficiency of the mains power grid by 20 pst. by 2020. Now, a decade after the climate agreement was concluded, it is established that this is not possible. It's unfortunate that you're in on such goals and then put them aside a little over a year later. I am also surprised that the government does not make more extensive and thorough efforts to adapt web policy to today's challenges, but says that one will come back to these questions and discuss them more closely. In today's situation, where there are not enough incentives for upgrading and maintenance of the network, we also do not have a framework adapted to the need for connectivity for new renewable energy production. It is positive that an obligation to link production at all levels of the network is introduced. However, there is a significant problem that there is no explanation of how to finance the investments resulting from the obligation to associate. Until such time as the financing issue is resolved, the obligation to associate is of very little value. I note that the government does not propose common network tariffs either. I take that as an expression that after four years in position, you don't find a basis for introducing common network tariffs, but push this in front of you and say you want to figure it out. I have no objection to such an investigation. It's a goal to reduce the differences that are in the network tariffs today. Many measures can contribute to this, not least the development of the network. I think at the same time that one should be aware that having a goal of equal tariffs no matter what is the actual conditions in different parts of the country, has its negative sides. It is important to have incentives that stimulate good operation and long-term viability. It's not a good idea to have a system where it doesn't matter whether a driver is good or bad. In that case, it may be better to have a grant scheme in addition to other measures that may help reduce price differences. In the past, the government has promised on repeated occasions that new guidelines would be in place that would be more open to the introduction of cables in sea and soil where air voltages would be destructive in important natural areas. Among other things, Åslaug Haga, former oil and energy minister, has repeatedly said in Stortinget that there was a need for such guidelines, and that they would come. Now we know that that policy has changed. No such guidance has been provided. This is the background for the Left to make proposals for guidelines. There was also the background to supporting the proposal to set up a selection to explore the technological solutions that could provide a safe and more prudent power development in vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e951	The Energy Act came into force in 1991. I am pleased that we have received a review of the law now. We have learned that social governance of the energy sector and the rational use of energy resources are well taken care of within the framework of the law. In the energy sector, large values are created at the same time as the sector constitutes a critical infrastructure for society. However, in the power sector, there is now, as in the past, a significant challenge in coordinating production, networks and consumption. I am therefore pleased that the changes to the Energy Act will facilitate increased efforts to develop renewable energy and increase the focus on network development. Network development is a prerequisite for increased renewable energy production and is important for industrial development and security of supply in Norway. The government is committed to facilitating energy efficiency in the network and making better use of existing hydropower structures through upgrading and expansion. I note that the majority of the Committee agrees that it is important to increase access to a valuable regulatory force. The objective, as formulated in the climate agreement, of increasing energy efficiency in the electricity grid and power generation by 20 pst. by 2020, which was just mentioned here, will not be feasible on the basis of technical and environmental conditions. I would like to stress that the second part of the climate agreement's objective of facilitating access to the network by smaller power plants will be met by the proposed obligation to connect production. I believe that is an important step in the right direction according to the intentions behind this. We must ensure that the deployment of networks is as gentle as possible. That is why, in my proposal, I present a strategy for taking even stronger environmental, aesthetic and community considerations into account when planning for reinforcements in the power grid. The strategy is offensive and imposes increased requirements both on the NVE and on the network companies. I think we have found a good balance between the different considerations. The strategy involves increasing the use of remedial measures through, inter alia: cross-fertilisation, by adaptation of wires to landscape and to wiring. This applies both to new power lines and to the renewal of concessions in the central, regional and distribution networks. In the construction of a new central and regional network, increased emphasis shall be placed on the organisation of local production and on the possibility to clean up the grid by removing older lines, which is of great importance to the overall scale of the pipeline network for the environment. The government has decided that the use of cable should always be assessed at all voltage levels. It wasn't specified in the power line strategy we've been up to now. The most important thing about the strategy I present is, however, that we adopt an overall approach to a wide range of measures. A minority consisting of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left propose that the Government develop guidelines for the transmission of cables in the central network. The strategy I'm presenting here is the result of a comprehensive review of how planning and concession treatment are done for power lines at all network levels. We have looked at the types of measures that are most effective in reducing the disadvantages and increasing the utility of power lines. As far as wiring is concerned, we have concluded that the distribution network is the most important priority for both community and nature diversity. The air lines in the distribution system are 7.5 times as extensive as the central network. Of Norway’s 93 000 km distribution networks, 63 000 km are still in air voltage. The strategy suggests that, as a general rule, the distribution network is placed on the ground in the event of renewals. This will gradually transfer the distribution system to cable. We propose the right to the web. Network companies are required to connect producers and consumers to the system. The obligation to link production gives power producers the right to connect to the network if the production project and the network as a whole are socially rational. This obligation to link is important in order to generate more renewable energy in Norway and for security of supply. Through the proposal for a binding obligation, we have strengthened the right of small and wind power to networks. In addition, the proposal will also facilitate increased value creation in districts, while increasing the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e971	In conclusion, the Council of State addressed the obligation of connectivity by saying that one has strengthened the ‘right to network’ of small power plants. Of course, this obligation to connect is good and good, but there appears to be some uncertainty as to how this cost allocation should be between the power builder and the network owners when this network investment is triggered by the obligation to connect. Right there is a very important point for many builders. If the builder's contribution becomes too high, we are as far as we are today in terms of the problems of developers in accessing the grid and thus safe provision for the power generation. Therefore, it could be desirable if the Council of State could explain in more detail how this should be resolved, so that the obligation to associate becomes real and not just big words without meaning in a law clause. It must not be such that this obligation to connect becomes too costly for power producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e976	I think I am using the opportunity to say that I agree with the assessments made by the representative, Andersen, here. It's not every day that I get the chance to do it from the Grand Council. I also see that one, with too much emphasis on plant contributions, is not in practice entitled to a network. We cannot create such a situation through the future web policy. Now we're going to go through this and do it in a proper way, but for me this is about the fact that the use of plant contributions is a possible complement to the specific situations of the cost that the network company is going to take to get the network out. There is no doubt about where the primary responsibility lies, but it would also not be right to exclude the use of plant contributions as a possibility for the carrying-over of new installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e983	«Net rights», expressed the Council of State. I have two questions for the Council of State Riis-Johansen: The councils have been to Værøy. Does Verøy and Røst have a right to network, right to secure supply? Will the Council of State contribute to this? Does the Council of State think it is right that Statekraft is currently raiding Norwegian network companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e992	If the representative Kristiansen with his question about Værøy and Røst has a negative sign in front of what is now done, I'm very surprised at that, because I've made sure that a process is in place that helps us in the area this year to solve one of the major cable problems that have been associated with Training. I have sailed, as the representative Kristiansen says, to Værøy to look at the situation there. We may come back with concrete measures about it in the context of subsequent budgetary proceedings. The fact that we have now shown a will, which other governments have not had before, to do something about the cable problems in Northern Ireland is obvious, and I also hope that people in the area have noticed. As regards Statkraft's relationship with network companies, I think it is a rather interesting and relevant question that was raised. But I see that the time has expired, so we'll get back to the later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e999	This is going to be an invitation to Ivar Kristiansen to draw a new line after me in terms of State power. My question is about what the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, about housing law and the possibility of purchasing centres to have a common network bill. We have received several letters from both residents' law and buyers' representatives about this possibility that they are now afraid of disappearing. The rapporteur actually assumed that it was sorted out by the authorities in this respect. Can the Council of State confirm that this happens, that they are familiar with the problem, and that it was not the Government's view that this should be banned?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1006	We want to have some different situations related to the problem that the representative Solvik-Olsen is dealing with in relation to, for example, the problem. type of housing. In principle, I believe that we are going to deal with all the essentials of these challenges also within the new regime, but there may also be examples here of solutions that have been chosen locally, with which there may be some challenges. I don't want to reject it like that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1011	The Christian People's Party believes that the obligation to connect is important in order to build more renewable energy. However, an obligation to connect does not provide an automatic basis for e.g.: wind power builders have access to networks. It states in the proposal that an exemption from the obligation of access may be granted if the project is not socially rational. What does that mean? Does that mean that a market price underpins social rationality or underpins one of the requirements and obligations contained in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1016	I heard with interest the representative Tørresdal elaborate his assessments about this in his post. I'm probably a little surprised at the entrance to that. To the extent that I had the opportunity to ask questions back, I would ask the question, what is the alternative? Firstly, I believe that we are now doing the right thing, which the Storting obviously also fully agrees with, by giving it the right to a network. But we have to have a dispensation right, an exception, in the case of such an offensive right. To take the extreme: if, as a landowner, I wanted to set up a tiny small power plant far, far, far from everything that was off the grid, it would be completely unreasonable if it were just to require a network expansion, which might also have major environmental consequences. We need an exceptional option, and in individual cases, of course, there will be a concrete assessment of how much the costs of the network will be in relation to the size of the project to be linked to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1022	There has been a driver in Norwegian energy policy that many have tried to present it as if there was a major imbalance between production and demand, and that we were therefore in a forced situation and had to expand new energy production. Yesterday, Statnett-chef Auke Lont could tell that in a multiannual perspective, the situation will be that Norway is in a surplus situation. In order to make sense of it, like the Left, Auge Lont believes that we need an enhanced cable connection with the rest of the world. The head of the Industry Committee, Ola Borten Moe of the Center Party, has a completely different perception of reality. He believes that Norway should ensure that exports do not increase abroad, not strengthen cable links with the rest of the world. What approach to this very fundamental issue of energy policy does the Council of State have the greatest sense of – who is the leader of the Left and Statnett Group, or who is the head of the Central Party of the Nutrition Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1031	I think we have to do the most important thing first. What has been neglected in recent years is networking in Norway. We have a network in Norway that should have had greater attention over a long period of time, as the debate is also taking shape today, and a higher rate of investment. We have parts of the country where the network is actually poorly developed. As seen, Statnett’s recently submitted concession request for a network from Balsfjord to Hammerfest is an example of an investment that should be taken in Norway and that has been neglected. In an extension of that, my answer to the question is that foreign tables have very many positive aspects, not least in terms of security of supply, possible balancing of electricity at different times of the day and the use of Norwegian hydroelectric power plants for regulatory purposes in wind power and coal power generation in other countries as well. But we must not get into a situation where we do not have the resources to develop the web in Norway, when we see the great need that is domestic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1038	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1041	The rapporteur has now explained in depth and in a good way the content of the law that we are about to adopt today. What is also evident, as has been done by several speakers here, is that it fully endorses all the proposals made by the Government. This is in many ways an important debate, for here we are now taking a partial summary of the Energy Act that came into force in 1991, and I think that is important to do at certain times. What I can also see tonight is that the basic principles of the Energy Act adopted in 1991/1992 are in place. It has contributed to a good socio-economic use of resources – better than the previous Energy Act, i.e. before 1991. There was a lot of discussion about the introduction of the Energy Act in 1991/1992, and there has been a lot of discussion afterwards, but when we add up, we have to say that this Energy Act has been successful. It has been good for price fixing in Norway for ordinary consumers if we look at the average. I think it is very important in this debate to note those things as well. But we have challenges ahead of us, and that is the challenges we in this room are discussing tonight and facilitating further work in the future. The question we ask when we are as big and powerful an energy nation as we are, with the great, important resources we have, is, of course, how do we manage these new renewable sources, and how do we facilitate them for the future? It's in many ways the community values we have here, and it's a value creation of large dimensions. It's also industrial travel, it's jobs, and not least we're going back to it in the debate on the next case this evening, about the competitive industry that's going to live in this market. We are faced with major challenges in today's legislation. What's especially now is the new renewable energy, how we're going to get that supply in place. We have major climate challenges, and I would have liked this debate to come up earlier, when we arranged for new renewable energy policy in Norway, that we had taken this important element, which is absolutely crucial if we are to get it into production, if we are to have an exchange in place, etc., namely the transport network. The saved kilowatt hour is at least as much worth as the produced new one. We've done great lifting, and it's time that we also do new lifting now. I also think what is being said now is important, this with the obligation to connect, which comes into this case, which will also provide a boost for new renewable energy. Now the government didn't say much about this today, but he said earlier that the government at the end of the current month will come up with a scheme and a law that begins to facilitate wind power production at sea. It presents us with new challenges: what's going to happen here? We know that pretty much, but we're going to make access to the power that's being produced here. It should come to a country, whether in Norway or abroad. It presents us with new challenges, as I said, including environmental challenges. But who will be responsible for this relationship? Who shall have the responsibilities of the facilitator? Who will take the costs, etc.? These are debates, discussions and decisions we have to make quite early here in the Great Britain, otherwise this too can be pushed out in time. I think it is very important that we take these debates as early as possible, so that the builders have predictable framework conditions and can see into the future how this should be done. Finally, network production and consumption are the main elements here. This has to be seen in context. I think we won't get full backing for new expansions of new energy in Norway if we don't take the network situation seriously, if we don't add up to a new cable connection abroad, and also within Norway, so that we can move into the market. Then the production will also come after. I think that's one of the most important things we're now facilitating for the future. In the end, I have to say that I might have expected the debate here today to ask a small question about whether the number of online companies in Norway – 140 – 150 pieces – makes sense, whether it is an organisation that is right to meet the new time. But I'm not going to extend the debate with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1064	Then I know that the representative Nordtun is going to listen, because now that debate starts. Because it is absolutely right that much of what has been promoted in the Energy Act now goes through without debate. Everyone agrees. But it just shows that what the government has come up with is a kind of least common multiple, which is completely uncontroversial and pleasant to listen to. But that's not what we need to get energy policy on. If one goes back in the last three to four years and remembers what red-green politicians talked about at almost all energy conferences, it was that when we just got evaluated the Energy Act, it was going to be «Ordnung must be». Hydropower would get better distribution, better regulation of network companies, better control of power, exports, imports and the whole package. So this evaluation – I can't remember that there have been so many other things that matter to the Energy Act – and one sees that one is very close to network policy. This with hydropower storage and control of what the Central Party even proposed when they were in opposition, there has not been one word about this matter – to the extent that it is OK. Much of the other thing that one had also expected in relation to changes in the Energy Act, which does something about the pricing system, and which makes this more socialist, is completely omitted. That, too, is good enough. The problem, however, is that the timing shift that we expect in the field of web policy has not been achieved – not at all. It is not just the opposition, or the Progress Party, that says, but it even said the Land Association of Energy Companies in its press release when the proposition was presented. This proposition does not give us the change in pace we need in energy policy. The government gives a clear description of the status of the network policy and the energy law, and honor it for it. It shows that you have received some adult training in the government offices, which SV and the Central Party had not received when they put them in opposition. But I miss the strategy in the future. Everyone agrees that we should bet on renewable energy – politically. But when you talk to the industry, the industry says it's a certain challenge. One is that it should be profitable for the industry to expand. The second is that the power balance in Norway suggests that prices will not rise unless you have a greater export potential. The problem with export possibilities is that as soon as you start building down to the continent, you hit a wind belt, where prices can quickly be at least as low as they are in Norway, and then you have no use for exports. This issue is not discussed at all in this proposition. That's what the government should do, because when one doesn't really discuss the role of Statnet, what strategy one should have for cabling abroad, it doesn't provide the clarification that the Norwegian power industry needs to know if there's money in building new power in Norway for the next 10, 15, 20 years. When one doesn't give the answer, we can stand and talk as much as we want that we want more renewable energy, but no one is going to invest. Finally, we will have to set up the Central Party company, with state wind and state power and state hydropower and state energy everywhere, so that it could at all be an approach to expanding something. But it won't be profitable, it will have to be subsidized by the taxpayers, and it's not positive. The income framework should have been discussed in this case. It is not useful to talk about connection obligations when not considering the cost allocation, and it is not useful to talk about the need to improve the network structure when one does not take the discussion that the representative Nordtun travelled, namely how many network companies you should have, and how to determine their revenue. Yesterday, in Bergen’s Official Journal, the front page was ‘Tapper large on a small network’. BKK Net indicates that there is significant small-power potential in their concession area, but if they are to expand the mains network to take this in, they will lose money on it. Localities lose value for 300-400 million. kr a year because BKK will not make money on a streamline that will cost approx. 300 million. kr, because their effectiveness will be reduced as a result of the investment and they will lose revenue. So profitable small-scale projects are put on hold. Socio-economic profitable network investments are also being put on hold because they become unprofitable in the economy. It should have been the important debate that we took here, not such bald cowrie around the obligation of connection where the clarifications do not exist, nor any shell-cold debate on the fact that now we are going to wire the distribution network, which I believe has been largely a practice throughout the last few years. What we know, however, is that the conflicts go on the central network and cable, but there, Statnett has said that they do not feel that there are any new signals in this case at all. They said that at least at the hearing of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. A does not take the discussion about the number of network carriers. We got a question from the Right in relation to Statkraft, which is now starting to buy up a network company. If the Government has a policy that one should get fewer, a get it up in the open, so that everyone is aware of what the Government really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1101	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1112	The proposition we are now discussing is the finalisation of the Government's proposal for legislation on public ownership of the hydropower resources, which the Stortingen joined in the last harvest through necessary changes in water resource legislation. When last year the Stortinge dealt with the changes in the fall-back regime, the so-called consolidation model was adopted. In that context, it was notified by the Government, and it was also stated in the proposition, that when it came to the rental case, you should come back to that spring 2009. The purpose of opening up the rental of power plants is to ensure greater flexibility for the operation and exploitation of existing hydropower plants. In addition, it is also an objective to ensure better access to energy for industry. The Government is now proposing that access be granted to the owners of built-in concessional waterfall rights to lease out power plants and associated installations. Such rentals of hydropower generation may be made for a period of up to 15 years. It is currently possible to disable the physical operation of power generation to operators. A proposal also provides for the possibility for public owners to enter into contracts for unlimited ownership of hydropower production. While we have been dealing with this matter, a number of organisations, public agencies and power companies have expressed their views on the matter. There has been a lot of interest among these different organisations, and there have been different views about the rental period, because it is the one that has been very much involved. Many have mentioned 50–60 years, many also zero, but most have wanted a 30-year rental period. The design of a rental model must be seen in the context of the amendments to the Industrial Concession Act, adopted in September 2008, which just strengthened the principle of public ownership of hydropower within the framework of the EEA Agreement. It is considered that EEA law will provide guidance for the detailed design of the Lease Facility. Therefore, the arrangement must be designed in such a way that public companies, as well as private domestic and foreign companies, are given the opportunity to enter into leases on equal terms – it is very important in this case – and so that it does not formally or effectively undermine the bearer principle of public ownership of hydropower resources. That's what was the guiding principle when we had this case dealt with in the autumn of 2008. In our view and in the view of the Government, the rental scheme and the length of the lease period proposed in this proposition are fully compatible with the EEA Agreement. I would like, on behalf of the Labour Party, to add a few words to the debate that has taken place. It is well known that our position, like parts of the trade movement, was initially a wish for a 30-year lease period. However, the overall assessment has been that the rental scheme must be in line with the consolidation model, which I was in place and which was dealt with last autumn. I record that the Government in the proposition has landed for a tenure period of 15 years, and that this period is good within our EEA obligations. This has been fully explained both in the proposal and in the written correspondence of the Committee on the matter. Whatever we do, we don't have to put ourselves in a situation where public ownership and control of our hydropower resources are put at risk. We have instruments to secure and further develop the power-processing industry in Norway. I would like to make a few comments on this point, because it is also important for the power-intensive industry. In the State budget, we presented a series of measures for the power-intensive industry. In the revision, we follow up and facilitate the establishment of a purchasing consortium, where several companies can receive financial support from the state to join forces to buy power. Renting is part of this concept and may be made available. The basis for all of this is a good balance of power, opportunities to enter into long-term commercial contracts and the good terms and conditions of the industry in network rental, in the case of exemptions or reductions in electricity charges and through support schemes, inter alia. through Enova. I mention this because there is also an important element in this matter that has been a lot up in the debate. I would also like to mention that the power plants in Norway have objected to this, but I would like to stress that the proposal proposes that the mechanism of unlimited co-ownership agreements for hydropower resources should again be allowed. Such time-limited agreements for, for example: the county authorities will in practice be the same as ownership. Then it is just important to anchor ownership of the hydropower resources locally. This has been emphasised by the Committee and also clarified in its comment that the County of County will be able to finance future joint ownership rights with long-term power contracts, possibly combined with rentals for periods of 15 years, which can be repeated. I note that a solid majority in this position, except for the Right and the Advance Party, believes that the rental scheme does not violate the principle of public ownership relating to hydropower resources. It's the bearer. However, in this position the majority is also determined by the last-harvest amendment that ensures and strengthens the wide public ownership of hydropower resources. That's what the debate went on. Therefore, the majority also supports the justification for the rental mechanism. If we go back in history, we see that the opposition, the Right Party and the Advance Party have had a different angle of incidence. They also had that fall in 2008. But if we go back further in history, we also see what fundamental positions the Right has taken to public ownership from 1909 onwards. For us, it has been important to ensure the community's ownership of the hydropower resources, so that the whole community too can participate in this and it can benefit everyone. The consolidation model, which we dealt with and adopted last autumn, was just the support of this. I am pleased to note that the Left and Christian People's Party supports the main lines of government's red-green policy in this area. There is only one place where they take a different position, and that is in terms of rental periods – 15 years versus 30 years. But the principles of public ownership and its continuation – that it's the community's resources we're talking about – stand firmly on a solid majority, and we hope that we will do that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1144	This is a very important debate, although it may be perceived by many as a little technical and a little bit detailed, because it is, in the view of the Progress Party, about the premises and principles on which to base our thinking of industrial and energy efforts in Norway. Hydropower is important for Norwegian industry, it is important for the value creation of our nation, and it is important for our well-being. It has been with and built up the country until what it has become today. The industrial clusters that we've been given as a result of having hydropower, and thus having access to reasonable and good energy, will be part of shaping our society for a long time to come. It is therefore important to maintain both the industrial cluster using hydropower and the energy companies producing hydropower. The Progress Party believes that the use of hydropower resources should be used for the benefit of the nation. So we don't want what many people often care about because of motives, we want to sell out to foreigners for a lick and nothing, and we don't care about what happens to the hydropower. The point of the Progress Party is also to ensure that the nation as such receives the value creation benefits from the fact that it is Norwegian natural resources. But we believe that a combination of public and private ownership actually gives a better value creation overall than if you collect all ownership within a narrow group of capitalists on state hands. This is important for industrial development in Norway. So we have a hundred years of tradition that industry has been allowed to own its own hydropower. There has been no problem until recently that industry owns this hydropower and uses it to develop the industry. All those who boast of how great Industry-Norway has become – not least part of the red-green parties that have a large number of trade union members – know how important industry is. The fact that it has suddenly become almost ‘criminal’ that industry is allowed to own some of this hydropower says a little about how many of the political debates have been removed in relation to how society has actually been built up and how important industrial and value creation is in order for us to be able to subsequently distribute values over the state budget. Lack of hydropower structure is important in itself, just as all of us here believe – yes, I would even believe that SV will do well – that it is important to have a diversity on a Norwegian base: large and small companies, foreign and national. There's no one there who says that here someone comes and steals our legacy silver, just because BP is allowed to be an operator in a field. But once someone talks about the same thing within the hydropower, it's a bad thing. There is no logical reasoning to suggest that, in the case of petroleum resources on a Norwegian base, it is possible to allow foreigners to be operators, but it is cruel when it happens within the hydropower. This means that we consciously narrow down the number of operators and how many good heads we can take into the Norwegian hydropower industry through the decisions made by the Government, and it means that the value creation is likely to be less than what it could have been. It reduces the flexibility of the owners in managing this in the best possible way and the industry is a loser. And as I mentioned, the decision to drop back was taken last year, making it possible for the first time to cut the links between industrial production and power generation. So really, this is produced as a positive from the Government. The government and Prime Minister Stoltenberg, in their speech to the LO Congress, said that the fall-back case is one of the six points in their industrial power regime – one of the six points. What do we see that the fall-back case has done? Well, it's cut the link between industry and energy, and the industrial companies that owned hydropower before, are now starting to put it out for sale. What are they doing with the capital they're getting freed? There is no guarantee that Elkem, when selling its hydropower plants, will reinvest in industrial production in Norway. Now they are suddenly free to invest anywhere, because they have no connection to Norwegian power generation anymore. And then it might as well be that they do like Hydro: the next time they're going to invest in metal production, they invest elsewhere, because they don't have to be physically close to where the power is being produced. It's a fact. The only result we see so far is that Elkem sells out. Elkem does not enter as a partner in those power companies and does so in the long term, but they leave Norway as their industrial site. It's unfortunate. Nevertheless, when this happened to the case of the fall-back, the Progress Party saw it as positive that a rental arrangement could be obtained instead, because it would take care of some of the interests that the Progress Party believes it is important to safeguard, namely the diversity of power ownership and on the production side. It ensures the flexibility of the owner, which means that Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian county councils know that they are in possession of values, but they can dispose of them in different ways to get maximum value creation out of it, based on their view of the future. But what's so sad about this case, and which has been so sad about many other energy issues, is that what basically looks like good things when we stand and sell it in party speeches, ends up with that after you get through the compromise pieces, it gets pulled out and worn out, so that it becomes a useless solution. 15 years of leasing – yes, of course, this was the theme of the Energy and Environment Committee’s hearing, 15 years. And it is true that almost everything presented by the Government in terms of the rental arrangement is agreed – except for the period of time. The reason why there was a debate about the time period is that it is essential for you to believe that the scheme will work or not. The LO-linked Industrie Energia, the trade union movement body most closely related to those involved, says that 15 years have no value. There are no industrial companies that want to invest with a 15-year horizon. The same goes for Norwegian Industry. The 15-year rental scheme is likely to be uninteresting for all Norwegian industrial enterprises. Then it doesn't matter, at least when the government later like the renting system is also part of the good industrial power model, which no one really understands how it works. It is as Norsk Industrie said at the same time: if anyone in Norway is interested in a 15 year lease period, it is those who have foreign passports. It is the foreign capitalists and financial investors who will find it interesting enough by 15 years. When you can enter such a scheme without competition with Norwegian industrial companies, you will probably get a lower rental price than you would otherwise have. This means that foreigners will now get it cheaper than they would otherwise have in relation to having a 30-year or unlimited lease term, while Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities will receive a lower income from a rental scheme than they could get. Ergo: Setting a 15-year limitation does not save Norwegian control of hydropower. We wanted it anyway, because we're the ones who seem to own it. But setting a 15-year limit only allows foreigners to rent this cheaper from Norwegian municipalities. Then it's Norwegian municipalities that lose money on it. Thus, it is not a win for control of hydropower resources but a loss in the value creation of Norwegian owners. That's what I think the government should take over. This is not the party that claims to be the Progress Party. It's those who run the industry, with analyses and assessments of the situation, who claim. The energy companies' national association said they had no problem with having a rental scheme that went beyond 15 years. There are no practical challenges in this area. The ownership is still with the municipalities and county municipalities. It is a bit interesting to see that even the National Assembly of the Workers' Party believes that 15 years are not enough. So that means that in this hall, it's actually a majority to have more than 15 years leased out. Maybe 30 years is what would have been the majority. The progress party could say that we have no time limit, this gets the landlord and the tenant to agree on each case. The county council was given the opportunity to enter as a partner with 30 pst. when they built out the Svartisen. The county of Nordland had no capital. How did they deal with it? Well, 55 years' rent from the project, and then they take over. So the county of Nordland has 30 pst ownership in the Svartisen. without having used a crown itself. But they miss income for the first 55 years, they do. But there's a way to secure local influence and local participation in new hydropower projects. We miss that arrangement when the government says no, at most 15 years. Then the municipality of Nordland would not be part of the Svartisen project. Then it would be the large, state-owned power companies that were in there. It doesn't help to make the entire people benefit from the hydropower, as so many people talk about in party speeches. Creating an artificial limit of 15 years has no purpose if the objectives are value creation; if the objective is local value creation, whose aim is to secure the values of municipalities or whose aim is to ensure that initial investment takes place with local participation. In all these areas, the government's policy is being misrepresented, and it is being revealed as insufficient. Even the Workers' Party has said that. Then it's a little special when one can read in Rogaland's newspaper of 22 April that the local representative Tore Nordtun draws up the rental system for power plants, where the national meeting asks the Government to ensure that private power owners, such as Hydro, can lease back the rights for 30 years after the state takes over the rights. ‘We stood together’. That's great. The problem was that when the Workers' Party came back to Stortinget, they did not do what they thought was right. Then Tore Nordtun stands on the contrary and says no, because of the EEA rules and things like that, we probably have to be careful, and 15 years is what we need to be careful about. But then we have to ask: has the Workers' Party adopted a programme which they know is deliberately contrary to the EEA Regulation? The EU-friendly Labour Party? I doubt it. No, the only thing we can conclude is that a compromise has been reached that is basically bad. The working party knows that, but has not taken up the fight. And what's the consequence of that? The consequence is that the Stortinget now makes a decision that does not benefit the municipalities on the ownership side, which does not benefit Norwegian value creation and which does not benefit the industry but benefits non-resident financial capitalists. We must ensure that we soon start to see energy policy and industrial policy in a context. We know that industry needs long-term conditions to invest. Most industrial enterprises have a 30–40 year perspective and require similar depreciation horizons. The industrial power regime that provides the safety needed by industry for the power situation to be manageable over time has not been put in place. The CO2 quota strategy, which we have discussed earlier, does not give the predictability of having competitive conditions in Norway vis-à-vis the rest of the world, rather on the contrary. Now we see that in terms of the rental arrangement that could at least give them a hint of hope that here is the understanding of the dimensions that are involved, in terms of costs, time and power volume, unfortunately cancels the Storting with shine. And they do that while the majority are cheering and wondering what has happened. I challenge the Labour Party to dare to vote in favour of the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right to allow longer lease periods than 15 years. Then the Workers' Party can go into the election campaign with at least a certain feeling that they have tried to do something for the industry in Norway during this period, and not just be met by demonstrations from the trade movement Industry Energy for lifting breakage. I take up the proposal on which the Advance Party is involved, and I urge the Workers' Party to make a real uplift for the Norwegian industry in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1185	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1188	I think today's government must have put the industrial perspective to the side when you wrote today's proposition. We must have forgotten the previous debates and the promises about what to deliver in this area. We have a government that opted for an active industrial policy and that did not spare itself when it came to giving promises to Norwegian industry about what they could expect in an area where one is exposed to a sharp and tough competition «wide». Today, we have seen how we are helping to ensure sufficient energy for the Norwegian industry, so-called renewable energy too, by incorporating the Wefsna watercourse into the watercourse protection plan – without responding to what we are going to do to meet the increased energy demand in Europe. I think it must be a disappointment for very, very many people who are concerned with value creation and district and industrial development in Norway, to see how you follow up on what you promise. To reach this conclusion, the proposals presented are not supported by the right. We want a lease arrangement of at least 30 years. We want new concessionaires among both private and public developers to be treated equally. We want concession terms that are based on the use we have so far had in this area, and that privacy power is to be used for industrial purposes, and we take into account that the state is to be given priority in all transactions. It is clear that public ownership has been the leading ideology in this picture, and here you have to say that the red-green government really succeeds. Here, Norwegian industry works everything they can to get rid of the most valuable basic capital they have, that is, the power they have so far had through 100 years of successful history through the fall-back institute. 12 pst. of the Norwegian power resources – around 15 TW clean renewable energy going to Norwegian industrial use – will be transferred to public ownership. 50 to 60 billion in values are now to be transferred to public ownership. Then you can sit and wonder who it is that is going to take over this share, as long as State power on the government’s hand – for reasons other than economic – will be able to take over. I imagine how the local government sector is now helping to scrape money through direct or indirect ownership of the power company to do this task. And it is right, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen had in mind, that financial actors outside the borders of the country, together with a shaky municipal economy, are likely to contribute to the confusion of the values of what is in many ways more – not least from the red-green team – defined as the inheritance silver. I also believe that red-green politicians – in their eagerness and cheers after nationalizing the hydropower – must have forgotten to ask themselves the question: Why was this power developed in its time? Well, it was for industrial purposes, and it was in District Norway. There has been a guarantee for housing in District Norway, where this job has been completed under competitive conditions for almost 100 years – with a successful history and development. Very many communities are based on the hydropower values that are built-up — and initially, they tend to be financed by foreign investors. I think one has forgotten the consequences when, for example, Elkem, and eventually also Hydro, I think, will make sure – within the hourglass runs out – to get rid of its ownership of the hydropower. I don't think this is going to worry the financial directors of Hydro and Elkem, rather on the contrary. But the signal through broken promises, the failure to deliver what has been promised, leads to many – perhaps thousands – very vulnerable jobs in Norwegian competitive activities. And I find that very regrettable. The industrial ownership is, as I said, over. This has been an unconditional success, but it must therefore be phased out under the vignette: the need for public governance. Then you can ask the question, when you wind up the fall-back institute – and now you're talking about consolidation model, de minimis support, cooperation, French model, etc.: Will the proposed model lead to increased investment, increased investment, upgrading and development in the renewable sector? The answer gives itself. The investments will fall. Who's going to have the economy to manage this? What are the economic incentives to deal with this? How, with 15 years of leasing, is it possible to depreciate investments that require 30-50 years with a reasonable long-term basis? How is it to be expected that this is an industrially motivated enterprise? Of course, no one believes in this, other than some red-green ideologists. In any case, the industry did not believe in this, which less than a year ago was promised that conditions would be put in place that would more than compensate for the drop-back. I think the action we had out here on 3 June spoke for itself, what was thought of this from Norwegian competitive and export-oriented jobs. It is a gallant to reduce the value of the rent on this political manoeuvre. Finally, through our comments, we have marked strong resistance to this experiment of establishing a double operating organisation. I can't believe that this overall contributes to a better social economy, and I can't believe that this can be something that the European competition authorities think is a good idea that can be adopted by other countries. Finally, let me say that I see that the representative Inge Ryan has signed up on the list of speakers and is in the room. There's no doubt that Inge Ryan has contributed a lot through his eight years in Stortinget. I have appreciated his efforts and his pragmatism. He always fought for District Norway. He has been far from acting as a private-practicing wholesaler, as I see some, regardless of party boundaries, have fallen for the temptation to be. It should be said that it has been a great pleasure to have worked with him in an earlier period. He has really managed to put a trace behind him – perhaps with one exception. It's about today's case. It seems that the representative Inge Ryan has got some kind of hanging-up on public ownership of the fall rights within Norwegian hydropower. Therefore, I wonder if it is Inge Ryan who has written all the conclusions on behalf of the red-green parties in today's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1209	I want to start my post by thanking the Left for the amazing job they did a hundred years ago, when they rocked the most important jewel among our natural resources from the privatisation of the right forces. It was an effort by which there really stands respect. They showed against, they showed the ability to see long-term, and they showed that they were able to take political control of this resource. Then we have to fight the other people who come a hundred years later, once again to the right to take care of that resource, so that our descendants get the joy of the natural resource that we've had. It's our duty to continue the fight of the Left, and that's what the red-green parties do in this room. We made a historic decision in September. After a fall-back period of very many years, until the EEA Agreement arrived and market thinking in a way questioned whether a fall-back occurred in line with the EEA Agreement, the Government, in cooperation with its agency, has, in my opinion, done a fantastic job. It looked a little dark for a period, but they managed to recover the fall back. I believe that it is the most important winner the government has won in this period in terms of challenging the environment. It's a very important job, and I'm very proud of my government that's done it. So today we have the question of renting. Basically, rentals can seem innocent: putt, putt, it's not that hard if we rent out for 15, 30, 50, 60 or 100 years. But what we need to take care of – what is in this judgment – is that we do not have to ask ourselves so that we can ask questions about whether Norway is serious about what we want, namely that the hydropower should belong to the community. Obviously, if we rent out hydropower for 50 or 100 years, we don't think it's the community's resource, because then we create such a long time perspective that we can rightly ask these kinds of questions within the EEA system. That's why we have to be careful about how long we're renting out, so you can't question whether we really believe that the hydropower belongs to the community and is a national resource. We have made a clear assumption in all leases that are entered into. The setting reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the Right, has noted that if, on assumption, leases were to take place for up to 15 years to make the fundamental ownership of the hydropower sector incompatible with EEA law, the law and leases entered into must be amended or terminated without delay. Therefore, all lease contracts shall have a provision to that effect in the event that the rental regulation would become known to the EEA in breach of EEA law.» This is in line with what the Government has written, and it is underlined by the majority of the committee. In my opinion, this is a safety valve if the 15 years we thought were reasonable, because some smaller power plants can cooperate through leases. Then there are a number of questions about the industry. I think we're going to go wild if we think that by the industry getting rented power plants, we're saving industrial workplaces. If I was an industrial manager and owned an industrial company, I could rather go to an energy company and enter into a 30-year contract for a normal power contract, where I asked to rent electricity – a regular power contract for it and that price, adjusted to the consumer price index. Then I had access to the current I wanted, if I wanted to use it for my power generation. We can't let the fall back be put to the test, put in a situation that makes it slip for us, just because we want the industry to lease a power plant. Industry has ample opportunity to conclude regular electricity contracts. Finally, I record that the right-hand side is very offensive on the track. I have to say that there's an area where the right-hand side has low credibility, it's just in this kind of question. They were shoving away the fall-back a hundred years ago. We see, for example: the right-hand municipalities sell the power plants and buy shares. It's a little credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1231	As we have heard, the Ministry of Proposition proposes that access be granted to the owners of approved concessionary waterfall rights to lease power plants and associated facilities, and that such rental of hydropower generation can be undertaken for a period of up to 15 years. I point out that the Christian People's Party was united with the majority of the committee to secure public ownership in the hydropower sector through the consolidation model. This was an important but also a powerful grip for public ownership of the hydropower. Therefore, it has been of great importance for the Christian People's Party to put in place a functioning rental system that ensures the necessary flexibility. This is important in order to give choice to power companies' owners. A good rental arrangement can, for example: be an alternative to sales for municipalities that own power plants. A functioning rental scheme is also important for the development and dynamics of an industry that has as strong ownership regulations as the hydropower industry has received. A good rental scheme would not least have been important for the Norwegian industry’s ability to continue the strategic combination of hydropower and industrial production. The more unfortunate it is that the Government once again chooses to deprioritize the interests of industry, for other reasons. A 15-year lease term is not a scheme that is interesting enough for the actors. All the important advantages of the scheme are thus lost for Norwegian municipalities, for Norwegian hydropower production and for Norwegian industry. It is impossible to understand Norwegian industrial history if you do not understand the close link between industry and hydropower. The paradox is that we have three parties in government that made this a major issue in the election campaign, and that went to the elections on clear promises of an industrial power regime that the industry would benefit from, but that nevertheless does not seem to have understood well enough the importance of hydropower for industry. Four years have passed without the promises of the industrial power regime being fulfilled. However, in the context of the legislative proposal on the regulation of ownership of hydropower, the so-called consolidation model, the Government had a new opportunity to show this understanding, where they could choose to give industry long-term concessions on their power plants. They also abused this possibility. In the case we have to deal with today, renting out hydropower, there is once again an opportunity to show that you understand the needs of the industry. It is sad to see that the government parties once again fail to meet important decisions on framework conditions for Norwegian industry. One could have understood the refusal of the government parties if there were important considerations that weighed heavily towards another conclusion. However, the Council of State has been given several times through the Committee's proceedings to explain why he has not listened to the advice of industry regarding the length of the lease term, which is my concern here today. Furthermore, when he cannot point to legal problems, but in general terms refers to the consolidation model, it becomes difficult to understand that such important industrial considerations can be sacrificed without a concrete explanation of the arguments that weigh heavily on the other side. I will address the proposal that the Christian People's Party and the Left have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1252	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1255	Norway is an unlikely resourced country. We have natural resources that give us huge amounts of clean and renewable power. We are the only country in Europe that is closest to itself with renewable electricity. There are large social interests attached to Norwegian hydropower. Together with petroleum and fish, the water force is one of our most important natural resources. Water power is an eternal resource, of which future generations will also rejoice. Water power is fundamental to power supply, infrastructure, value creation and well-being in Norway. That's exactly why it was an incredibly important matter for the Center Party to secure the Homefall Institute. The hydropower is our inheritance silver, and we own it together. Therefore, it is so important that we still have national control over these values, through local and national public ownership. The scattered public ownership of hydropower is a value in itself. The municipal eight power stations are important social actors, who favour competence, capital and jobs in the regions. It has been a challenging task to create a model that still guarantees public ownership of the water force. Several different considerations need to be balanced. First of all, we need to ensure that water resources are managed for the benefit of the general public. The system must be balanced against the needs of the power-processing industry in Norway and against the requirements we are faced with in the EEA Agreement. The opposition of the centre party to the EU and the EEA may be known, but we have no choice but to the framework of the EEA Agreement, find the best possible solutions for Norwegian social interests and for Norwegian industry. And I have to say that when one hears the input of the representative Kristiansen, one has to start wondering if one has forgotten the background of the case, if one has forgotten the treatment of the incident here in Stortinget, and if one has forgotten what this case is about. The changes we've made when it comes to relapse, we've done just because we had to adapt to the EEA Agreement, an agreement the party of Kristians wants. And that might not be so strange, because the Right's starting point was the opening of privatisation and the hall of the Norwegian hydropower resources. Hence, the trustworthiness of the Right and the Advance Party, which also Inge Ryan pointed out, is very little when it comes to these questions. Access to clean and renewable energy is one of the major competitive advantages of Norwegian industry. In Norway, for example, renewable energy will be used. making silicon for solar panels and for making aluminium, making cars easier. The Norwegian power-processing industry is one of the world's most environmentally friendly. The renewable power is the basis for a forward-looking and green industry. We must therefore ensure Norwegian power-processing industry good access to power at an affordable price, without undermining the fall-back regime, and ensure Norwegian hydroelectric power stations in the community's hands. We believe that today's bill balances the care that must be taken when it concerns public ownership on the one hand, and the industry on the other. The proposal ensures that the hydropower is still in public ownership, both formally and effectively. At the same time, both private and public companies may enter into leases on equal terms. The Central Party will stress that the Government is working along several lines to ensure Norwegian industry's long-term and good access to power. The French consortia model, which is mentioned here, is one of the following tracks. At the same time, the production of more energy is entirely central to ensuring the availability of power to industry. This is a question we have discussed before today, but it is quite obvious that greater renewable energy production will also be with and ensure the industry power at an affordable price and not least good access to power. We know that through Enova, industry can also have access to investment measures, measures to improve the use of energy in industrial production. It does not result only in first pass on the bottom line. It will also provide long-term and viable solutions to make industry even more competitive in the long term. The consolidation model also suggests that the industry can have ownership in power of up to one third, thus also contributing to and securing a basis for its own industrial production when it involves access to power.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1278	The left is for strong public governance of hydropower production and strong public ownership in this sector. That was the starting point when Left 100 years ago was the architect behind the fall-back system, and that was the starting point when Left, like the government parties, voted for the so-called consolidation model. However, the Left is open to adaptations to flexible solutions, which can strengthen the sector and provide the basis for long-term solutions for industry. That is why we voted in favour of a deferred retirement for some installations when the consolidation model was being treated. It would not in any way undermine public ownership, but it would facilitate in a better way than what the Government did, so that industry could have long-term and good framework conditions. This is the starting point when we go in for a maximum rent of power generation for a period of 30 years, twice as long as the government has proposed. A lease term of 30 years does not undermine public ownership. It provides a long-term perspective and makes the rental system more attractive and profitable for the industry. Yes, everything suggests that you have to have a longer lease period than 15 years if this is to be a tool that can be used as the intention is. I record that the Labour Party at its national meeting is in line with the Left, as opposed to the Government. One of the big changes that was to happen at a government shift was that we were going to have a new power regime, with better framework conditions for the powerful industry. That change would come quickly. It was just a matter of will, so a get a power regime with a lower price of power at the industry than the market price. The government has not delivered that. In addition, the government has acknowledged that it is not possible to keep the promise. Now one says that one promised, was long-term commercial contracts via Statkraft and other actors, it was a new build-up, and to all intents and purposes one has now said that the fall-back scheme ensures what one promised, despite what the representative Solvik-Olsen quite rightly said, that a used fall-back scheme to weaken the position of industry. One has also not used the possibilities that lie there to move towards the promise of a gift, by having a lease term of 30 years. The sum of this is that the industry's desire is repeatedly set aside, and on this basis I see it as very understandable that the industry feels trickled in terms of the promises given before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1290	When Odelstinget today adopts the Government's proposal for rules on the rental of hydropower production, it is the enforcement of the consolidation model of public ownership of the hydropower resources adopted by the Stortinget in the autumn of 2008. As I also pointed out in the Odelsting debate last autumn, the Government was pleased with the concession rules that were in force until the changes we introduced in the provisional arrangement on 10 August 2007 and that were replaced by the Storting's final decision on the consolidation model. Such a solution was only possible after the government challenged ESA, and due to strong forces in Norway that wanted full liberalisation of the legislation. The decision of the EFTA Court stated that the previous arrangement was contrary to the EEA Agreement but that public ownership of the hydropower resources could be an objective in itself. Through the decision of the Stortingen on the consolidation model last autumn, we have, in accordance with EEA law, held the holes pointed out by the EFTA Court of Justice and used the space provided by the judgment to strengthen the ownership of the municipalities, counties and the State of the hydroelectric power. From a historical perspective, it was a milestone that, in the autumn of 2008, we were given the law that the country's hydropower resources belong to and are to be managed for the benefit of the public. This is ensured by an ownership structure based on the principle of public ownership at state, county and municipal level. This legal provision is hand in hand with the objective of the Soria Moria Declaration of Reinforced Public Ownership. One of the areas where changes were necessary in order to follow the principle of public ownership was the earlier provisions on rental in concessions for the acquisition of rights of use and long-term disposal of water rights. EEA law provides for the design of a rental scheme. It must be designed in such a way that public companies, as well as private resident and non-resident companies, are given the opportunity to enter into rental contracts on equal terms. Nor should the rental scheme be designed in such a way that it formally or effectively undermines the principle of public ownership of hydropower resources, which is intended to ensure that hydropower resources are managed for the benefit of the public. I believe that the rental scheme proposed in the proposal is fully compatible with the EEA Agreement. The rental arrangement is consistent with the consolidation model and contributes to safeguarding and strengthening public ownership by ensuring that the owner has all the legal liability under concession. There are uniform rules for all lessors and tenants. To allow rental for longer periods in special cases in a way that would weaken the consolidation model, the Government cannot go in for. The proposal proposes to legislate the current scheme with the operator carrying out work without responsibility for the financial performance of the operation of the power plant. The maximum length of such agreements shall correspond to the length of contracts for the rental of power plants and associated facilities. There will be a need to specify organisational and competence requirements for owners and tenants and operators. Urgent general considerations such as safety and preparedness make it necessary to require, inter alia: operating organisation in this country. The detailed rules necessary to take account of these considerations shall be laid down in the Regulation. It is up to the owner and the lessee to decide how leases should be designed. Leases must also regulate the way in which remuneration is to be provided. It is proposed that the arrangement for unlimited co-ownership agreements for hydropower generation should be allowed again. Such time-limited agreements, for example, the county councils, will in practice be the same as a joint venture. I believe that participation is important to anchor ownership of the hydropower resources locally, as the Committee has also made clear in its comment. The counties will be able to finance future joint ownership rights in long-term power-sales contracts, possibly combined with rentals for repeatable periods of 15 years. I have noticed with satisfaction that a majority – all except the members of the Progress Party and the Right – believe that it is a prerequisite that the rental arrangement does not violate the principle of public ownership relating to the hydropower resources. The majority thus stand by the last-harvest amendment which ensures and strengthens the wide public ownership of hydropower resources. The same majority support the Government's justification for the rental arrangement that will be adopted today. The majority underline, inter alia: renting power plants is an instrument for industrial development in Norway. The possibility of renting Norwegian power plants can in future be one of several instruments to secure and further develop Norwegian industry and its importance for employment and industrial development in the districts. I am sure that the arrangements adopted today will be a good solution both for the public power plant owners who will enter into leases, and for those who want to take over the operation and production of the power plants rented out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1321	It is obvious that there are different assessments of fifteen and thirty years, and there are different ideological approaches. However, let me try to appeal to something that I hope the Council of State has a weak heart for – or a warm heart for, we might rather call it – namely, Nordland County Municipality's history of how they were able to participate in investing in the Svartisen, namely, by having the opportunity to rent out their holding in 55 years. It's been eleven years since it was agreed, they have 44 years left. Small investments may be carried by a county or municipality because it is a relatively small part of the capital. A large investment – and now I assume that the Council of State is still standing by that he wants medium-sized hydropower of a new character – will be more difficult for a county municipality to carry. A fifteen-year period will be too short to scrape together the capital needed. How will the Council of State that county councils will actually be involved in new investments in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1328	First of all, it's well here about a tough election campaign, when the desire for a weak heart is the entrance to the election campaign and the end of the poaching session. But joke to side. With regard to the potential co-ownership of the county council for power generation in the future, the example taken by the representative for 55 years and also the proposal that the Right and the Progress Party are promoting here today on an infinite lease agreement is clear examples of our having a part of the debate that will obviously challenge EEA legislation. That's what we're dealing with. I hear that the representative Solvik-Olsen and others make this an ideological matter, while enough for me is a matter which, yes, has an ideological objective in relation to the fall-back institute, but which with practical implementation helps to ensure it. I think the examples that are mentioned here, obviously, are challenging in view of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1335	Both the Norwegian industry and the LO-linked Energy Industry have clearly stated what they think about the Government's proposal on the rental period that is being adopted today. The answer to most of this is that you do not want to challenge EEA legislation. Does the Council of State consider that thirty years of renting would have been contrary to EU competition law, or does the Council of State not consider it? If the Council of State thinks so, does he at the same time feel that the Workers' Party's national meeting decision was entirely on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1342	With regard to the follow-up to what was done in the EFTA Court and on which this Chamber has spent a lot of time during the autumn and until now, it has not been given to anyone to have an exact science related to it, nor to me. What I can say from this pulpit, and which is important for me to be sure that I can also be quoted in about ten to twenty years, and for that matter a hundred years, is: I am sure that the solution I have proposed, and the solution adopted today by the Storting is well inside of having a rental arrangement within the consolidation model, but at the same time a rental arrangement that no one can believe is a hollowing out of the objective of public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1349	The council says there's no science given this. What I'm asking is: what is the concrete thing that has happened in the period between the National Assembly of the Workers' Party and today – not so many weeks ago – which means that the Labour Party's depositors and the Workers' Party in government oppose their own national meeting decision on a possible rental period of thirty years? In concrete terms, what has happened in this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1354	I don't know if I'm the one who's right to answer that question. But what I can answer is that what has been important for me to do is to put forward a rental proposition for the Storting that I am sure of, which I believe is forward-looking and irrefutable within the EEA legislation. We know what challenges we have faced in relation to the fall-back scheme and which ended up in the main decision on this matter in the autumn of the Grand Duchy, and we know how many of us feared in an earlier phase could be the outcome of the discussion on a fall-back to the EEA. For me it has therefore been very important to present a case to Stortinget on which I am absolutely sure is good inside of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1359	I want to start by answering Laila Bavøy's questions. What has happened after the national meeting of the Workers' Party is that the Workers' Party has not joined the Centre Party and SV. That is why the proposal stands for 15 years of lease time. Today, we have heard of all the losses – whether of natural diversity that will apply at sea, or of the Pacific Ocean – for which one will come back to and fight further. The Workers' Party has also said this in terms of 30 years' rental time. This is going to come back to the next period. This is going to be in place, it's said from the working party team. My question to the Council of State is: Would it be irresponsible to do what the Workers' Party now says they should do, work on getting through for 30 years of rental time? Inge Ryan almost took an ideological settlement with the policy that the Workers' Party adopted at its national meeting, for he said that 30 years' rental time would be incompatible with public ownership. Do the councils agree? Is there the EEA issue on which it is based or is it incompatible with public ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1368	I hardly think anyone in this room has heard the signed talk of loss. I'm very concerned that we get good solutions, which I think we get, and so this adds up to the order of it. As for the question of indefence or not, my answer to the exact same thing as it was to the representative of Kristiansen and to the representative of Davøy is that what has been important to me, and on which I stand very safe and sound in this room today, is that I have promoted and the Stortinget adopts a proposal that I am sure is on the inside of the EEA legislation. Besides that, I don't want to see anything more. What is important is that today we take a decision that is good, precisely because it is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1375	The council said in its previous reply to me that it seemed as if I wanted to make ideology out of this. In fact, if anyone has tried to make ideology of the matter and to a large extent clearly so, it's the government partner SV, where Inge Ryan of the Nation just before the fall-back case was dealt with last year, said this is about ideology. Here SV has nothing to do with four. That is probably also why he has got a system that all the actors who are going to be part of it say will not satisfy the wishes and objectives of the Government. But the government is apparently very satisfied with what they have presented, even though we know that the majority of the government has a different position to what we are now going to adopt today. When the government started talking about a rental arrangement before the fall-back case was decided in Stortinget, they talked about a period of more than 15 years. I don't remember if it was 20 or 30 years, but it was more than 15 years old. But now you're proposing 15 years. What has happened since you first started talking about a period longer than 15 years, when you now say that it's only 15 years compatible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1385	The representative of Solvik-Olsen has repeatedly been concerned that there have been many ministers in the department that I now run. I must almost be allowed to answer for my assessments, and the process I have had around this matter. I have had that process in terms of designing the proposition, and what has followed it. As you can see, there has been a process in which I believe that my thinking has been consistent all the way to presenting the Stortinget with a solution that is safe within the EEA law. In the question of ideology versus the pragmatic here, I believe that in the previous answer to the representative I said just that: Yes, it is an ideological superstructure to this matter in relation to the desire for public ownership and the desire to keep the fall-back institute. With regard to the design of the number of years attached to it, it is more a practical adaptation to ensure the overall, i.e. the fall-back institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1392	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1395	The rental business has received a lot of attention in industry and not least in the media. With the decision made at the national meeting in the Norwegian Labour Party, everyone understands that the case we are dealing with today on rental is not optimal from the starting point of the Workers' Party. Rental business, Ot.prp. No 66 for 2008-2009, nor was Åslaug Haga early signaled by the then state council that renting would involve a rental period of about 30 years. Now it's lying as it is, and it'll be exciting to see how many people will avail themselves of the rental opportunities. When we dealt with the fall-back case, Ot.prp. No 61 for 2007-2008 and Innst. O. No 78 for 2007-2008, we secured and strengthened public ownership of hydropower resources, and at the same time we decided to continue the ownership of regional power development for county municipalities. From the 1970s onward, the objective of the resource districts has been to share in the value creation of the water resources put into use. We know that the natural resources are really the basis of life for District Norway, but then you have to take part in them, and that's exactly what was important for us red-green during the treatment of the case of the fall-back. The co-ownership of the county municipality is not statutory, and I would assume that this will be addressed in a new case in Stortinget in the next period. It is important for industry, but it is also important for municipalities that the possibility of public ownership works in the best possible way, so that they have the opportunity to be an active actor in Norwegian hydropower. Both ownership and the number of years of lease time are therefore something that needs to be discussed further, in my opinion, because there may be a real possibility that today’s decision will weaken the possibility of public regional ownership. An example of this is the Nordland County Municipality lease agreement in 1998, which also Ketil Solvik-Olsen had a lease term until 2053 – 55 years. This was important in order to gain the long-term benefits of development. Nordland then believed and now believes that the lease must be so long that it is commercially interesting for tenants to enter into such a lease. The investments made by the lessee must be written off during the contract period. This could be a problem when it's only 15 years old. It has been claimed that the 15-year election has been taken because of public ownership. I don't understand that argument. It must be extra convenient that the landlord is public, like the county, and that the power plant will return to the public after the rental period, whether it is 15 years old or 30 years old. What we're making now is going to be equal to everyone, whether they're Norwegian, foreign, public or private tenants. But it could be that a foreign company is so lucky that after the first 15-year lease, they can get a new 15-year lease. Then I do not understand that there may be any case for ESA whether it is 15 years or even 50 years. Well, obviously, some people claim it. I hope that industry and regions, despite protests, see some possibilities in the rental system. It is important that this be seen together with several points in an industrial power regime in order to make use of all the possibilities. I am going to vote in favour of what is now here – it's called giving and taking – but I have great hopes that this will be converted in the next period, and that because of the Workers' Party's decision at the national meeting this year, where the programme says that the Workers' Party will work for a lease period of 30 years, and a unanimous decision has been made in the Workers' Party's Group on the Stortinget. This is what I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1414	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1417	The one who made me take the floor – I will not try to prolong the debate – was Ivar Kristiansen. I think we need to go back a little bit and look at what we were dealing with in 2008 regarding the rental case. That's how we got a verdict against us in the EFTA Court. We had to clean up, we had to treat public, private, foreign, etc. We had to have the same starting point. We took note of this and made the consolidation model, namely that still public ownership should be the support of Norwegian power generation. So we can't decide to determine the price of the force in this room. That time is over, Ivar Kristiansen! What did the previous government do with this matter? The answer from the last Minister of Industry and Energy from the Right was: Nothing should be done! This gets to sail its own sea. We have come back to Stortinget with this matter. We've put things in place. We have even offered one third of private ownership in power generation. Industry can go in and own a third, if they want. It's open. And then Ivar Kristiansen claims that this government has done nothing. We've done a lot. If Ivar Kristiansen reads, for example: The revised budget says that we have ensured a good balance of power, we are facilitating commercial, long-term agreements with industry, we are saying something about grid rental and exemption or reduction of the electricity charge, and we have solid support schemes through Enova. I can mention Yara Porsground, I can mention the companies in Troms, etc., which receive large subsidies for energy efficiency improvement. I also bring the last one – the consortium. With the consortium, we're just making it easier for the industry to go along with the manufacturers to create a power pool. Is this nothing? I think it is clear that this is a lot within what we have room for in the EEA Agreement. Then you can't claim – if you have a conscience, you should at least have it – that the previous government did so much in this area. Nothing! Then I will finish – also to Ivar Kristiansen. We must treat the Norwegian industry in the same way. I have to say that there are few industrial companies complaining that they do not have access to power in Norway. What they complain about is the financial situation elsewhere in the world. Neither the current government nor the Norwegian Workers' Party can buy all the rims that are now in stock in the large companies. This is determined by the international economy and demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1430	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President. It is particularly important when the exposure is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1433	Since this is probably the last energy debate I'm going to attend in this house, I want to say that I think it has been a good debate. When I believe that there has been a good debate, it is primarily because we focus on what is so important, namely to further refine the energy we have here in the country, the most environmentally friendly industry we have. But I want to point out some facts in this debate. The first is that we would never have had this debate if we hadn't got a new government. The second is that the government, in my opinion at least, has done a great deal to ensure the industry's power at competitive prices in the future. I think both the representative Davøy, who said that the government was not interested enough, and the representative Kristiansen, who is suddenly going to have a 30-year lease to the industry, should go a little by themselves. Firstly, if we as politicians are to be able to offer strength to the industry at all, we must have the power to offer. Then the fall-back is important. But apart from that, the government has said that up to one third of the power generation should be privately owned. If industry does not take advantage of that opportunity, would they have been able to take advantage of a possibility without a fall-back where one would sell the power plants? I think those who have some business on industrial policy see that in that case there would be capital forces abroad that would come and buy up our power. The size has given Mars Grounds to Statkraft through the ownership notification – they must ensure long-term contracts. Today we get a lease of 15 years. It's not like it's black and white in the industry. It is industry in Norway that has invested hundreds of millions on 15 years of power contracts, so it is not entirely black that they get this. There's nothing one can say that there's no need for, and that it needs one not to have. So the government is further working on a consortium model that is also going to help ensure the power of this industry, because this government sees the importance of the industry still in Norway, because we get lower environmental emissions, we're doing the job of maintaining communities where there are cornerstones, and it also involves large export revenues to Norway. So in this election campaign, this government can really go out, knock on the chest and say that it has made a contribution to Norwegian industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1446	‘Not completely black,’ said the representative Klungland, and he is of course quite right in that. But the election campaign in 2005 from the red-green parties that went to the elections was certainly not black, it was rosy. They guaranteed: just give us a few weeks, and we're going to have a new industrial power regime in place. A few weeks – this is possible! I have here a strong work of quotations from red-green politicians, including Klungland. The time doesn't go by to read out all the promises and all the quotes, because then it wouldn't even keep up with 10 minutes of speaking time. But I can do one sentence: «A new socialist government will provide electricity to the industry at below market prices.» The person who said this one month before the last election is Jens Stoltenberg. But I have both Klungland and quite a few others on this list. And then the case rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, takes the floor and asks the question, what did the previous government do? The previous government did not promise to offer cheap power to the industry below market prices and said it was easy to sort out with the ESA system. This was not done by the previous government – on the contrary, it was very difficult to get in place. When you look back and see what today's government has achieved, I think you have to be able to ask yourself if you have achieved what was promised to Norwegian industrial workplaces. Why did Industry Energy and the process industry strike in June? Is there any dialogue with the Norwegian industry in this area? Do you see what the message from their side is? Have you read what they say about what the Government promised, and what you have chosen to follow up? Do you see why Elkem now wants to sell out all his power? Are there any among the red-green parties who believe that Elkem's industrial workplaces are secure when Elkem sells out its power to its own industry? Has the representative Nordtun taken the trouble to take a trip to Karmøy and talked to Hydro's workers about what they think about running away from their promises, about abolishing the Retirement Institute, proposing 15 years' rental time when the entire industry asks for a minimum of 30 years? Is this a contribution to securing jobs in Rogaland and Karmøy? I think that red-green politicians would stand by walking a little by themselves. In any case, the representative Nordtun – starting with him – should ask himself the question: Why in the world did a majority of the national assembly of the Workers' Party adopt a minimum rental time of 30 years? This should be totally unnecessary – if they do not understand their own visitation time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1466	The last two entries of the working party give cause for concern. In their self-confidence, Leif Sande in Industry Energy gets the closest impression that he could stand next to Rolf Terje Klungland and demonstrate to the Government. Everyone knows it's just stupid. Everyone in the industry and in the trade movement who works with industrial policy says that the government has not delivered. They give the impression that this government can jump around and boast of what they've done. They would like to do so, but it only shows that one has not understood the seriousness and scope of the policy that should have been pursued to meet the demands of industry. The representative of Klungland spoke of no one complaining about access to force. No, initially we have enough power in Norway to give industry the power they need. However, the framework conditions for the purchase and sale of this power – the framework conditions under which the industry is to deal with long-term investment – they complain. And if the representative of Klungland hasn't brought it, it's something serious about the way the Workers' Party listens to the industry. The Progress Party has people who have travelled and visited industrial businesses – from Lista in the south to Finnfjord in the north. I was just in Mo in Rana. There a company had been closed with the exact reason that they did not have the power conditions in Norway that they had in the company’s home country, France. They then set off in Norway, simply because these international companies that are going to compete on an international market go where they get the best profitability. When Norway is unable to give them the power conditions they can get elsewhere, Norwegian companies lose. The Norwegian Location will be closed. I suggest that the Workers' Party travel around and visit industry companies to a slightly greater extent and take over what they actually say. In all the places we visited, there was optimism for the future – perhaps not as much after the financial crisis hit, but they had it before. Enterprises had strong visions of what they could do to improve energy efficiency, improve their environmental accounts and achieve more profitable production. The two things that everyone took up were industry and power, and that was the CO2 quota strategy to make it competitive abroad. If the government hasn't come to realize that there was a demonstration against the Government and this law that is now being passed, on June 3, if they haven't got the two demonstrations that have been outside the Storting in the last two years, they're a little short of reality. Then it was said that the industry can buy in and own a third of the power. But to be honest, people, they've always been able to do that. There's nothing new in this. There's nothing new in this at all. It's making old news, and pretending it's because of today's government you get it done. It's just to throw blues in people's eyes, and one tries to confuse more than one trying to solve. Listen to what industry has said at the hearings of the Energy and Environment Committee, both in the case of the home case and in the case of rental. That's not good enough. And it's not because those who represent the industry at the hearings are progress party people – it's old center party and labor party people who represent the industry. There's no reason to doubt what they're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1484	The President would point out that the speech should be addressed to the President, not to ‘people’s’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1487	It must have been said to have been a news item where the representative Klungland told about his fog sink, and told about how he looked forward to finishing on the Stortinget. When I hear his posts today, which seem to be an example of how far it is possible to come with political dressage, I understand that. I had enjoyed the last election campaign to meet Klungland at the People's House in Saudi. Then he told me that in a short time a new government would put in place a regime with power at a cheaper price than the one you got in the market. It was the position he had when he sailed into this great period. When he sails out, he is brilliantly satisfied with what the Government has done, contrary to what the Norwegian industry is. It is quite incomprehensible that the justification is a number of measures that are completely identical to what the previous government and a broad majority want, namely agreement on commercial terms. A reference to Statkraft, new generation of energy – which has, in fact, been triggered to a lesser extent than before by this government – and that one-third ownership of power companies should be opened up, which was also the case in the past. The two areas that separate the Workers' Party from the opposition are the willingness to postpone repatriation, the willingness to extend power contracts – two requirements on which the industry stands and which the opposition is willing to meet, but not the Workers' Party and the Government. We also had a post from Inge Ryan, who said 30 years of lease time undermines public ownership. In conjunction with the articles by Torny Pedersen, it tells us a little about the bike fight that must have been internal to the Government in this matter. For Torny Pedersen says that today's system is not optimal, today's system is not as Haga promised. It should be exciting to see if it is used – i.e. understood that it will not be used. We need to discuss this further. This will weaken regional ownership. I don't understand anything when someone says that more than 15 years of rent will undermine public ownership," says Torny Pedersen. We have to get back to this. She is fully on the opposition's side here, on the track of the Left and Christian People's Party. That means that there is today a large majority for that position, but because of internal disagreement in the Government, that won't be the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1499	I waited a little while to draw myself to the last three-minute insert, so I got the crowd together. I can only regret that the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has chosen it since when it comes to securing industrial power, because he knows that if he is going to sit in a government with someone he was hard on in the last period because they would not secure industrial power, then it is certainly not certain that he will get what he wants when he is going to do what he says. Having said that, I would like to tell the representative Kvassheim that I remember very well what I have said. I think it's pretty great to hear the opposition parties. The representative Kristiansen is up here with quotations from Jens Stoltenberg, whom he knows has never been pronounced, and uses it as argument in such an important matter. I actually think they should stay for good. That's one of the reasons why I'm pulling. I say that the opposition is so false that a person can almost laugh at blood, when they've written in documents to the Stortinget that it's not appropriate – they don't think it's appropriate – to secure the industry's power. If it had been so that they would have wanted it at all in the previous period, it would probably have been put in place something then. But they wouldn't. Although the majority here said they should do it, the previous government did not follow up. Then the party of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen was also a support to the red-green parties to try to secure the industry's power. So I was in my previous post about what's done in this period. But it would not have happened if Gunnar Kvassheim had still been in the government offices, Ivar Kristiansen had stood here and said that they would not, and Ketil Solvik-Olsen had been political adviser in the Progress Party. It had not been done, and that is why I believe that the opposition is on this pulpit and says – and also says elsewhere – that cannot be contradicted, because that is actually not true. I actually think that those who say such things should take care of themselves. So it's the Working Party and the Red-Green Government that's pulled the load on this case. We are the ones who are once again trying to guarantee the industry competitive conditions, and the opposition should actually be so open and honest that they say that it would not have come from us if you hadn't pulled the load on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1510	The President would point out that accusing someone of being ‘false’ is outside parliamentary language. Ivar Kristiansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1515	Just a short note. Since I was accused from the pulpit of bluffing and cheating, I repeat my quote from Jens Stoltenberg. This quote is from Stavanger Aftenblad 9 August 2005: «A new socialist government will provide electricity at below market price.». If I do Jens Stoltenberg wrong, I am the man to complain in full public that I have done him wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1525	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1528	I think the representative of Klungland has to decide whether the Progress Party was involved in supporting the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre in that a wanted an investigation into industrial power, or whether we were not, because now we had to shut up both to have been with and not to have been with it. So I want to know exactly what this government has done that has actually given results that are better than what was the situation last time. I know that on the fall-back side, the industry has lost the right to own hydropower. It is not to strengthen the conditions of industry. The rental scheme that came instead reduces the possibility of renting hydropower plants, it does not increase it. Ownership compared to a third was also in the previous period. That's the $40 million. kr that came into the revised budget, which is the difference – which then corresponds to approximately. 0,1 ear per kWh used by industry? I can't see the big difference, except on the rhetorical side, where this government has promised gold and green forests. But it has not delivered anything that the industry believes makes any difference in relation to what it was. That is why the industry is demonstrating against this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1537	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 5 is over. [[Footage, see page 775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1545	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e1552	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 6, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 7, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 8-11, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 12, by Erling Sande on behalf of the Energy and Environment Committee Proposals Nos. 1-11 is included in the setting on pages 31 to 34, while proposal No. 12 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3180	The President will first vote alternately between the minority proposals and the corresponding paragraphs in the vote's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3210	Alternatively, between the setting of the title of § 14, § 14, second paragraph, § 35, first paragraph, and § 64 and proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party, with the exception of the third paragraph of Section 2. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3244	President! I should probably have voted in favour of my own proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3249	Yes, if you agree with your own proposal, it is wise to vote in favour! Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3262	Proposal No. 6, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The following provisions of the Nature Diversity Management Act shall be replaced by the following: § 2, first paragraph: The law shall apply in the Norwegian land and maritime territories, in the Norwegian continental shelf and in the other sea areas established in accordance with Law No 17 December 1976. 91, with the limitations of international law. [[natural diversity law]] § 76 The Act applies from 1 January 2010.’ [[(entry into force):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3284	Proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: «In the diversity management law, the following provisions are replaced by the following: § 5, first paragraph: The aim is to ensure the long-term conservation of species and their genetic diversity and the presence of species in viable populations in their natural distribution areas. [[natural diversity law]] For individual species, a larger geographical area than Norway can be understood as natural areas of distribution. As far as is necessary to achieve this objective, the ecological functional areas of the species and the other ecological conditions upon which they are dependent are also respected. § 5, second paragraph: The management objective referred to in the first paragraph does not apply to alien organisms and species for which there are other national management guidelines. [[(priority species):]] § 23 The King of State Council may by regulation designate specified species as priorities. The decision shall focus significantly on: (a) the species has a stock situation or population development that is contrary to the objective of the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 and that (b) the species has a significant share of its natural distribution or genetic characteristics in Norway, or (c) it is an international obligation relating to the species. At sea, the provision of point (b) of the first subparagraph shall apply only in exceptional cases. Where there is evidence that a species, according to scientific criteria, has reached a state or development significantly contrary to the objective set out in the first paragraph of Section 5, the authorities shall, in accordance with the law, consider whether a decision should be taken after the first subparagraph. The Ministry shall by regulation abolish a priority after the first subparagraph when there is evidence in accordance with scientific criteria that the stock target in the first paragraph of Section 5 has been achieved. Section 24 first to third paragraphs: When a species is designated as a priority under Section 23, an action plan shall be drawn up to preserve the species. The plan shall take into account actions by different authorities and in the private sector in the context and be developed in cooperation between the parties. A regulation on priority species under the first paragraph of Section 23 may provide rules on care measures in accordance with Section 47 where this is necessary to ensure conservation of the species. Government grant schemes shall contribute as far as possible to ensuring the conservation of a priority nature. If there are rules on the protection of certain types of ecological functional areas for priority species in the action plan referred to in the first subparagraph, where active care or other types of action is a prerequisite for the preservation of the functional area, the State may agree further with the landowner or the rightholder on the care of an ecological functional area for priority species. § 24, last paragraph: The law allows the Authority to derogate from the regulation under Section 23 if it does not significantly impair the stock situation or population development of the species, or if essential social reasons so require. § 35, second paragraph: in national parks, no permanent influence on the natural environment or cultural memories contrary to the purpose of protection shall take place. The regulation shall protect the landscape of plants, animals, geological occurrences and cultural memories from the development, installation, contamination and other activities which may harm the purpose of the protection and ensure an undisturbed nature experience. Foot movement in accordance with the rules of the Outdoors Act is permitted. Such movement may be restricted or prohibited only in demarcated areas of a national park and only if it is necessary for the conservation of plants or animals, cultural memories or geological occurrences. § 50, first paragraph: An owner or rightholder of property who is protected in whole or in part as a national park, a protected landscape area, a nature reserve, a biotope protected area or a marine protected area is entitled to full compensation from the State for financial loss where a protection results in a restriction of foreseeable use. § 50, third paragraph: The King of the Council of State prescribes what is considered to be the current use of activities under: (a) extractive consent under Law No 29 November 1996; 72 on petroleum activities [[Mining Act]] Paragraph 52, first paragraph: In order to further the objective set out in Section 4, the King of State Council may lay down rules specifying specific habitat types as selected in all or part of the country. The regulation shall specify the nature of the occurrences covered by the rules laid down in this Chapter. Paragraph 52, third to fifth paragraphs: Where there is evidence that a nature type has a condition or development that is substantially contrary to the objective of Section 4, the authorities shall, under the law here, consider whether a regulation should be given after the first subparagraph. When a nature type has been selected after the first subparagraph, an action plan shall be drawn up to take care of the nature type. The plan shall take into account actions by different authorities and in the private sector in the context and be developed in cooperation between landowners, rightholders and the public. When a landowner receives selected natural habitat types on his own land and becomes difficult to use, the landowner has the right to be protected under § 36 [[Landscape Protection]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3390	Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, saying, ‘In the diversity management law, the following provisions are replaced by the following: § 17 second paragraph: Wild game may be killed where it is considered necessary to eliminate a current and significant risk of injury to a person, buffalo, domestic animal or domestic animal. [[natural diversity law]] The owner, or one acting on behalf of the owner, may be killed when it has to be considered required under this subparagraph. The killing and attempted killing after this paragraph shall be immediately reported to the police. § 51, third paragraph, third sentence: For the costs of subjugation, Paragraph 54 of the Law of the Court of Justice applies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3412	Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party, and Left, says: ‘In the law on the management of the diversity of nature, the following provisions are replaced by the following: § 34, fourth paragraph: Within the framework applicable to each category of protection, the King may prohibit or regulate activities or movements which in themselves or in combination with other uses may counteract the purpose of the protection. [[natural diversity law]] Specific rules may be laid down for different parts of the area where it is compatible with the function of the sub-area for the purpose of protection. Restrictions on activity shall be proportionate to the purpose of protection. § 34 final paragraph: the protective provision shall not prevent new and existing uses which do not conflict with the purpose of protection. § 44 final paragraph: The effects of the first paragraph are limited to three years after the publication of the proposal. The ministry may extend the effects by only one year. § 45, third paragraph: For decisions on temporary protection under the first and second subparagraphs, sections 41 to 43 shall not apply. When a temporary protection decision is taken, the procedure shall continue without undue delay. The effect of provisional protection decisions is limited to three years after the publication of the decision. The Ministry may extend the effect of the temporary safeguard decision by one year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3442	As an alternative, between the Committee's nomination for the third paragraph of Section 2 and proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, to Section 2, third paragraph. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will now support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3455	It is then voted on the Committee's suspension to § 49 and § 56, first paragraph. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3468	President! Had it been possible to take the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right, one more time? I have reason to believe it's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3473	The very first vote? – If that's okay with Odelstinget, we can fulfill that wish. Then we go back and vote alternately between the Committee's suspension to § 30, first paragraph, point (a) and paragraph 31, first paragraph, point (c) and proposal No. 11, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3486	Then it should be corrected. The remaining paragraphs under chapters I to X and proposal No are then voted on. 12, by the Committee on Energy and the Environment, as presented by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3525	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3534	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3541	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Lien, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e3559	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘Proposal for a law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4116	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4125	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4132	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – Proposal No. 1, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left – proposal No. 2, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left – the proposals No. 3-6, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4271	It is first votered over sections 3-1, 3-2 and 5-1. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4284	It is then votered over in § 1-4 and new § 3-4. The current sections 3-4 and 3-5 become new sections 3-5 and 3-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4293	It is then added over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4302	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4311	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4318	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4492	It is first voted on in Section 5. There are two proposals for this paragraph. The President will first vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5 is replaced by the following: Owners of built-in concessional water drop rights may agree with the operator on the operation and maintenance of power plants and associated installations for the period agreed upon by the parties. Owners of built-in concessional water drop rights may agree to lease power plants and associated installations to a lessee for the period in which the parties agree. Subsidies are not allowed. Agreements after the first and second subparagraphs must be approved by the Ministry. Owners of developed concessional water rights shall be responsible for all exceptions under concessions notified under this Act, Law 14 December 1917 No. 17 on watercourse regulations or previous watercourse legislation.» [[water resource laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4514	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5 is replaced by the following: Owners of built-in concessional water drop rights may enter into an agreement with the operator for the operation and maintenance of power plants and associated installations for a period of up to 30 years. Owners of built-in concessional water drop rights may agree to lease power plants and associated installations to a lessee for a period of up to 30 years. Subsidies are not allowed. Agreements after the first and second subparagraphs must be approved by the Ministry. Owners of developed concessional water rights shall be responsible for all exceptions under concessions notified under this Act, Law 14 December 1917 No. 17 on watercourse regulations or previous watercourse legislation. [[water resource laws]] The King shall lay down detailed rules on the conditions for the conclusion of agreements after the first and second subparagraphs, including requirements on the organisation and competence of the owner, requirements on competence and local representation of operators and tenants and on their entry into force.’;» The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will now subsidize the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4538	The remaining paragraphs under I and II, III and IV are then added.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4547	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4556	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09-lower.ana.ud984e4569	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
