ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e22	The representative of Ågot Valle, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e33	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e36	On behalf of the representatives of Ingreig S. Sørfonn, Dagrun Eriksen, Hans Olav Syversen and one more representative, I would like to propose a tax cut for non-governmental organisations. I'm sorry I didn't come up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e41	The proposal has been submitted to the Stortinget office with the necessary signatures, but the President will recall that there will also be a physical handover of paper in this Chamber, and that will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. It will also be this proposal, but the President will remember that it is the representative who will be responsible for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e61	The government is today presenting measures to combat increasing unemployment and to mitigate the effects of the international financial crisis on the Norwegian economy. We will implement the strongest measures against unemployment in Norway over 30 years. We use stronger tools to combat unemployment than any country around us. We are proposing new measures for 20 billion kroner. Together with other changes in the state budget, we are increasing the use of oil money in 2009 by 27 billion kroner. It comes at the top of an already expansive budget for the current year. Thus, we use the freedom of action we have to create jobs and transform ourselves into new times. We have Europe's lowest leave today. Our goal is for Norway, through this crisis, to be among the countries of Europe with the lowest unemployment rate. The most important resource we have is people. Our overall working capacity is the largest part of Norway's national wealth. This is why measures for work are so important. These are uncertain times. All the international news about the effects of the financial crisis has been poorly new so far. No one in our generation has experienced a financial crisis with such great consequences worldwide. That is why we have implemented many measures. That is why we are making powerful efforts today. That is why we are prepared to take new action when necessary. It is the impact of the international financial crisis on Norway that is our challenge. Many farms have had five adventurous years. They have sold everything they could produce at very good prices. In a short time, everything has turned around. Now far fewer goods are sought at much lower prices. We can't afford to get out of these problems over a government budget. But we can do a lot to help unemployed people solve important societal challenges, and to transform themselves into the challenges of the future. We have better opportunities than most countries to fight the effects of the financial crisis. We've saved in good times, and have stronger financial muscles than most. We have a strong welfare state that protects people from market forces and a large public sector that stabilizes the Norwegian economy. But the important thing is that we have people on the move. Over the past few weeks, I've had many questions about how in the world we're going to be able to meet all the expectations of the measures we're now presenting. Yes, it is absolutely right that the sum of all the proposals we have received is completely unrealistic and would consume at least two oil funds in one direction. I also recognise a lot of old proposals that are now being recycled, which have nothing to do with the financial crisis, but which are presented under a new heading. We have also received very many good suggestions from very many different teams: from individuals, from organisations, from municipalities, from business and from the opposition. There are many who will contribute. Many people want to join us and take responsibility for getting through tougher times. This community is our most important force in the future. The measures we are now proposing should be effective in combating unemployment, and we have calculated that they themselves will give us about. 15 000 more jobs by the end of 2009. These measures should be temporary because counter-cyclical policies mean that we use stronger economic instruments in times of recession than we can defend in a normal situation. Actions shall address key societal tasks and strengthen the environment and distribution. Crisis times also offer new opportunities. We have the opportunity to renovate the whole country and, in cooperation with the municipalities, take back neglected maintenance, build new and rust up roads and railways. We also have the opportunity to adapt to new challenges in the future. We're going out of the crisis with more knowledge and competence, new projects and new products for a new era. We do not know today how long the financial crisis will last. But history shows us that after a few years, economic setbacks turn to a new rise. What we can be absolutely sure of is that the greatest challenge of our time, namely the climate crisis, will not be over then – on the contrary. Climate challenges will affect us for decades to come. Necessary adjustments to prevent global warming take time, and the effects of today's policies are only a long way into the future. It is a strong green thread through all measures of work. Very much of the municipal maintenance tasks will improve the environment and save energy for the future. New state buildings will meet more stringent requirements for energy use. Transport measures have a clear green profile. The measures we present today follow the broad climate agreement in the United Kingdom in a wide range of areas. Municipalities are important partners in creating socially useful jobs. Therefore, we increase the appropriations for the municipalities by NOK 6.4 billion in addition to compensation for the sum of tax losses, price and salary increases. We propose a new, temporary maintenance grant to municipalities of NOK 4 billion, which will provide full coverage for maintenance, rehabilitation and smaller investment projects that can be completed in 2009. We do this as unbureaucratic as possible and transfer the money to the municipalities that later reports on what projects the money has gone into. Then we quickly start upgrading schools and swimming pools, nursing homes and outdoor environments, indoor climates and energy savings. We propose to increase the free resources of the municipalities that, together with VAT compensation, will provide a further NOK 2 billion for the municipal sector. We are increasing the investment framework for school buildings and swimming pools from DKK 2 billion to NOK 3 billion. We're increasing the investment framework for church buildings by 400 million. kr, and we are increasing the grant for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes, so that we can get 1,500 more than the 1000 already planned for 2009. We're proposing 250 million. kr in an ad hoc aid for small sports facilities that can be started and completed in 2009. That means balloons and artificial grass plants all over the country. We'll give you another 250 million. kr to Husbanken, so that municipalities can build, clean up or buy several rental homes for disadvantaged people. At the top of an already sharp increase in the 2009 appropriations for transport, we are proposing new measures totalling DKK 3.8 billion. This means that we can speed up road projects, maintain roads, strengthen racial security efforts, build walking and cycling paths, improve road safety, repair ports and moles, maintain rail and speed up some railway investments. The measures have a very good environmental and district profile and will provide assignments to small and large entrepreneurs around the country. We propose offensive measures for the labour market, for the unemployed and the outsourced, for knowledge and business conversion. We increase labour market measures by 6,000 places and create 320 new jobs in Nav. We improve the rules of leave by extending the maximum period of daily pay under leave from 30 to 42 weeks and reducing employers’ pay obligations from 10 to 5 days. We're increasing the apprentice's allowance. We're setting up a new nationwide grant grant scheme. We triple the framework for nationwide innovation loans under Innovation Norway. We are increasing the grant to the user-driven innovation arena under the Research Council. We increase equity and don't charge dividends from Argentum. We're increasing the GIEK's U-land system. We create several scholarship positions in the UH sector and in industry. All these measures and others aim to strengthen the skills and adaptability of the individual unemployed, in individual enterprises and in the business community as a whole. We propose a comprehensive commitment to state-owned buildings both in terms of maintenance and new buildings. We're accelerating construction projects. We're upgrading the country's buildings, whether they're hospitals, colleges, universities or prisons. These measures will save energy, provide a better indoor environment and provide jobs in an industry particularly affected by recessions, namely construction. This powerful upgrade will appear all over the country. Stills will rise, hoists will be put in place, and workers will be given jobs. The considerable upgrading of old and worn-out prisons is peaked by an extra effort for the police. We propose to set up 460 new civilian posts in the police force. This means that police officers can be released for operational police work. This, along with the investment in DNA records, new emergency networks and a massive increase in admissions to the police colleges, provides a powerful boost to the work against crime. Work measures follow up many of the objectives of the climate agreement. We're strengthening Enova by $1.2 billion. That's an increase of 80 pst. This means a sharp increase in efforts for renewable heating solutions, energy-efficient solutions in industry, construction and installations. Increased deployment of good wind power projects and good biofuels projects is also possible. We're implementing a program for up to 5,000 charging stations for electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars. It will contribute to faster electrification of the transport sector and the market for environmentally friendly industries will improve. We are strengthening the bioenergy allocations from forest raw materials by 50 million. kr. We are strengthening climate research and research on marine wind turbines. We're increasing the allocation of the carbon capture test facility in Mongstad by nearly $1 billion. In addition, we are increasing other important environmental measures, cultural memory measures, and to provide a total of 350 million for coastal zones and national parks. kr. These direct appropriations for various environmental actions are in addition to the clear environmental profile in maintenance and construction and in the transport sector. In this way, we solve key climate challenges through work measures. Of the new measures of DKK 20 billion, DKK 3 1/4 billion is proposed for business taxation. Targeted measures to temporarily reduce the tax burden on enterprises that are exposed to a low economic downturn have been identified from a number of quarters. The government is proposing a system of cyclical tax reliefs that will add at least DKK 7 billion to the most vulnerable businesses over two years. The proposal allows enterprises to recover deficits for the years 2008 and 2009 in return for profits over the previous two years. Even today, it is a fundamental principle in the tax system that deficits should be carried forward in return for profits in the future, thereby reducing the tax accordingly. The state takes part when the companies go well, and the state covers the corresponding part when the companies go bad. It is suggested that a ceiling of 5 million be set. kr of deficit that may be reversed per year. years. In the light of uncertain estimates, it is assumed that the vast majority of enterprises will have deficits below this ceiling. In 2006, over 95 pst. a deficit of less than 5 million of the companies in deficit. kr. Businesses with a larger deficit also benefit from the scheme, but up to $5 million. kr. The tax value of an enterprise with 5 million. NOK in deficit will be SEK 1.4 million. SEK one year and thus a maximum of 2.8 million. NOK 2 for two years. The proposal has many good characteristics: It hits the companies that have made a profit in the last two years of recession, and that have deficits now that we are in a recession. The proposal will thus be targeted for the benefit of the most cyclical enterprises. If the decline is deeper and longer, the tax burden will automatically increase. If the decline is weaker and more short-lived, the tax burden will be reduced. So we're increasing the ability of the tax system to dampen the recession. When companies later receive profits, there will be less deficits and thus more tax to pay – but not more than 28 pst., which is the tax rate. Thus, the government’s tax revenue will increase again — automatically — once the decline has been overcome. The proposal involves a valuable supply of liquidity to businesses in a situation where they experience challenges on the loan market. Too many small businesses will also be able to increase their equity. In addition, the Government proposes to increase the tax FUNN deduction base. TaxFUNN is a regulated scheme in which undertakings themselves select eligible projects. The aim of the scheme is to stimulate industry’s own research and development efforts. The Government proposes to increase the deduction limit for own R & D from 4 million. NOK to SEK 5.5 million. kr and for purchased research and development from 8 million. NOK 11 million. kr. Higher spending limits may contribute to the implementation of some more projects and to the faster implementation of some R & D projects than otherwise planned. The progeny impact of the proposal to increase ceilings is estimated to be approximately 180 million on an uncertain basis. kr incurred in 2009 and accounted for in 2010. There are many, small mistakes that have led to the financial crisis, writes Joseph Stiglitz in the January issue of the Vanity Fair. But he continues: the truth is that most of the simple errors boil down to just one: the belief that markets are self-regulatory, and that the role of governments needs to be minimized. That is why the crisis that is affecting us is also a crisis for market fundamentalism. It is time for political governance, for effective regulation and for active economic policies. We are now providing new estimates for economic development in the future under considerable uncertainty – I must stress that it is under considerable uncertainty! While in the national budget we were expecting growth in the mainland economy at the lower edge of 2 pst. This year, we now believe that 2009 will be a year of zero growth. It is a powerful cover in the Norwegian economy. In 2007, the growth in GDP of mainland Norway was above 6pst. Our trading partners are now expecting a fall in GDP of 1 1/2 pst. – so minus 1 and 1/2 pst. – while we were making the national budget, we believed in plus 1 and 1/2 pst. Unemployment will increase. In the national budget, we expected a unemployment rate of 2 3/4 pst. this year. Now we estimate an average unemployment rate of 3 and 1/2 pst for 2009. But it's an average number; we have to expect it to be up to 4 pst. towards the end of the year. By comparison, the unemployment rate in 2003 and 2004 – that is, the last time we broke out in the Norwegian economy – was 4 1/2 pst. In 1990–93, which was also a difficult period, the unemployment rate was over 6 p.m. All countries around us expect a significantly higher unemployment rate than Norway. In the United States and the euro area, unemployment is expected to be between 8 and 9 pst. in 2009. We are now presenting measures that are stronger and more expansive than those in other European countries, with the exception of the United Kingdom and Ireland. However, they are much more affected by the financial crisis than we are, and expect more than twice as much unemployment as in Norway. When we consider measures against the economic situation of countries, no other country is using as powerful instruments as we are to combat the effects of the financial crisis. These are the strongest instruments over a state budget of over 30 years. We are proposing new measures on the state budget of DKK 20 billion. Along with an estimate of changes, the use of oil money over the state budget increases by 27 billion kroner. Because we have already adopted an expansive budget for 2009, the overall impact of the State budget from 2008 to 2009 will give a demand impulse of NOK 43 billion, or 2.3 pst. of gross domestic product. In comparison, the EU has set itself the objective of implementing fiscal policies with a total impact of 1.5 pst, but so far they have neither adopted nor notified decisions of more than 1.1 pst. So this is very powerful medicine in a country that is relatively less affected by the financial crisis than most others. Because we have managed the revenue from oil and gas in view of future generations, and so that large fluctuations do not directly impact on the Norwegian economy, we now have the opportunity to promote measures to the extent that we believe is right for our situation. In many other countries, account must also be taken of the fact that the debt of the country should not become too large. It gives them less freedom of action to combat increasing unemployment offensively. The rules of action for the use of oil revenues are flexible and mean that we should aim over time at an annual use of oil revenues corresponding to an expected real return in the State pension fund – Rest of the world at 4 pst. to the State budget. That means we have to be under 4 pst. in good times to be in bad times. In the 2009 national budget, we proposed an oil money use equivalent to 4 pst. of the value of the fund. Now we suggest for Stortinget an increase to 5.2 pst. In comparison, we used 3.3 pst in the 2007 growing year. of the value of the fund. The main measures implemented by the Government to counteract the effects of the financial crisis are: On 7 October we presented an expansive state budget for 2009, which will work as of 1 January this year. On 12 October, we promoted measures to ensure the liquidity of banks. Five auctions have now been carried out and as far as the banks have been allocated NOK 57 billion in the exchange mechanism adopted by the Stortinget. We have authority from Stortinget to go to NOK 350 billion. On 12 October, the Bank of Norway extended the access to loans and the length of fixed-rate loans. Over the fall, Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates by 2.75 p.m.. It equals NOK 20 billion in increased purchasing power for households. On November 21, we increased the equity of the Municipal Bank by 300 million. kr. It provides additional loans of NOK 15 to 20 billion. On November 23, we increased the GIEK envelope by SEK 63 billion – DKK 60 billion in general order and DKK 3 billion in building loan guarantees for ships. On the same day, we increased the lending framework for Innovation Norway by NOK 1 billion. On 27 November, we secured government loans for export finance of around 50 billion DKK over the years 2009 and 2010. On 26 January – i.e. today – we are presenting new measures for work, a total of 27 billion kroner in increased oil money use. In addition, I have announced that on 9 February we will introduce new measures to strengthen the financing of Norwegian business and increase bank lending opportunities. This will be a challenging year. Most people in Norway want secure jobs, increased real wages and benefit from interest reductions. But many will experience insecurity, and some will lose their jobs. 2009 requires community and solidarity. The government is ready for new measures when necessary, and we will in any case present a new assessment of the situation in the Norwegian economy in May in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e175	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to an entry of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will propose to derogate from Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that a comment by the Minister of Finance, and then a final comment by the representative of the opposition party, may be given on each post up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e184	In Norway, we first noticed the effects of the financial crisis by the banks having problems raising capital. The whole financial system was collapsing. Rapid political intervention prevents this from happening. The government introduced a series of measures last autumn aimed at the capital markets. This ensures that businesses and households are still receiving loans. The situation in capital markets is better, but is still not normal. There is a background for the Government to announce new measures on 9 February. Today, the government has presented a fiscal policy package that has one overarching objective – to ensure employment. It has been estimated that the package of measures will mean about 15 000 jobs. In addition, there will be new opportunities for those who lose their jobs. Because we have to be realistic and realize that the unemployment rate will increase, no matter how many extra billions of oil crowns we use. A large part of business depends on international markets, and this is a small influence of Norwegian governance. The package of measures means an increase in expenditure of DKK 16.75 billion and tax reliefs of DKK 3.25 billion, a total of DKK 20 billion, as pointed out by the Minister of Finance. In addition, an estimate of 7 billion dollars and an expanded loan and guarantee framework of 8 billion dollars will help to stimulate the activity of the economy. The Norwegian action package has the strongest incentive for all the action packages proposed in European countries to address unemployment. Such a comprehensive package is necessary because the negative consequences of high unemployment are so great, both for individuals and for society. Because we have conducted a responsible economic policy in the past, we now have fiscal space to spend a lot of money in the policy package. An even more comprehensive package could threaten the dollar and interest rates, and thus have negative consequences for the employment of parts of our business. The government has given special priority to the municipalities and the transport sector. In addition, a substantial increase in efforts is proposed to improve the building mass in the country. For all the measures proposed, the employment effect is high. Local government revenue is strengthened by a total of $6.4 billion, of which $2 billion is free income. In addition, the municipal sector is compensated for the real loss of income associated with lower tax revenues this year. The interest compensation arrangements for schools, swimming pools and church buildings are being increased. Investment grants for the construction of health homes and care homes are being increased so that there can be 1,500 more construction units. It's going to be worth 250 million. kr more for the construction of rental buildings, and the loan frame for the House Bank will be increased by 2 billion kroner. There is a great need to upgrade and maintain many of our hospitals in our country, and therefore it is proposed to NOK 1 billion for this purpose. Efforts are also stepped up for the construction and upgrading of higher education institutions and universities in different parts of the country. These are tender proposals and measures. The traffic allowance is proposed to increase by DKK 3.8 billion. On the one hand, road traffic permits are for investment and, on the other, for maintenance. The funds will be allocated to a number of projects, including: improve road safety and the development of pedestrian and cyclist roads. A total of DKK 1.3 billion is proposed for the operation, maintenance and development of the network. The government proposes a system of cyclical tax reliefs that will add at least DKK 7 billion to the most deferred enterprises over two years. This is a very targeted and accurate measure that will help businesses that are affected by the downturn. The rate will automatically increase if the drop is deeper and longer, and less if the drop is weaker and more short-lived. It is a very comprehensive and highly targeted action package presented by the Minister of Finance today. It is important that he comes in quickly, and that the measures begin to take effect immediately. At the same time, we have to take enough time for the Storting to have a good treatment of the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e210	Many have had expectations of this day. We had a relatively broad debate in the Storting when we discussed the state budget, about what would be the impact of the financial crisis, and the opposition promoted a number of proposals that were about to be ahead of us. The government replied that it was going to bring a package of measures in the month-end of January/February, and one could get the impression that it would solve all the challenges. When the Government today provides measures of DKK 20 billion in increased expenditure targeted at a number of investments in construction, municipalities, etc., there are hardly a lot of people in this room who disagree that there are good and sensible measures. The Progress Party, in so far as it lacks exactly the measures that might have been taken, is somewhat more on the power side of the Railway Agency and of the State Road Service, so that even larger projects could also be launched, which could go on for years if this crisis persists. 20 billion was probably as many expected and predicted. There's no doubt about it. And many of the projects and measures that lie here can definitely join the Progress Party. But there are some things we miss. I have registered – at least the media has speculated in it – that there has been some kind of internal debate in the government constellation if one had faith in tax havens as an instrument. There is one concrete, large measure aimed at a type of tax credit, which is positive, but otherwise it has been chosen not to go further on tax relief solutions. This is problematic, especially when we know that part of the business that is now struggling, and that reports significant decline, is the trade in goods, the commercial and service industries. Market failures are reported. Then, unfortunately, there are many people who may be at risk of being permed and dismissed. If that part of Norwegian business is to be able to increase or maintain its turnover, it is important that most people keep some more money, so that they can afford to maintain a consumption by shopping in these stores. When the government doesn't pay for tax relief by giving people the most tax cuts, you won't increase the purchasing power of consumers. Furthermore, I miss more on the tax relief side of business. It's been a very long time wondering if you, among other things. could do something about the depreciation rules. The Progress Party has proposed significant changes to the depreciation rules, which for Norwegian business would amount to more than DKK 1 billion in tax relief. I know that the government party SV has been very much for this type of tax relief, but it looks as if you have not received a pass. The point is that when Norwegian business wears down, it should also be avoided with a part on the tax side, but to a small extent this shines through in what is here. However, the big question today is why the Government has been waiting for two months to present this package of measures. When we discussed this at Stortinget at the end of November in the context of the State Budget, the Progress Party had put forward proposals of around DKK 20 billion for various measures and increased the strengthening of what the Government itself thought was a good budget. Then we were told that you could not go for such kinds of reinforcements; there would be major problems associated with it. And the government needed time, for there were very uncertain forecasts in November about how this would turn out. The government would have time until the end of January to deal with the crisis with this package of measures. But even today, the Minister of Finance says that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the forecasts that are now in the action package. So why were you waiting for two months to come up with the measures? Now these measures are going to go through first in the Storting, which takes a little while. If necessary, these decisions will be handed out to municipalities, to those who are going to start projecting, things are going on, and then it will be started – before the employment effect is increased. Again, the Government shows that there is a deficit in a rather serious situation. There are measures that could have been taken two months ago. None of these measures could have been discussed and promoted by the Storting. The budget spent seven weeks on the government budget, and until we had the last debate in Stortinget. In the seven weeks, the government could have coughed up these measures. I hope that in the next round we can get some clear answers as to why it was so important to wait. I hope there may be more packages if this package does not work. This package will be adopted by a majority of the Government. I heard the Minister of Finance say that they wanted to come back with some measures in the revised, but I also hope the Government will take into account in addition to bringing the type of package of measures before the revision, if the situation shows that it is actually required.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e225	Firstly, the representative, Mr Leirstein, is right in saying that many of the measures contained in the package of measures on the expenditure side of the budget are proposals that I see again at the Progress Party. The other opposition parties have had many of them on their lists. I think there can be broad agreement on the measures that lie there, so that the Storting can process and adopt the package quickly. Then there are a few things that the representative Leirstein doesn't pay attention to, among other things. that we have adopted an expansive state budget for 2009. There are 16 billion new oil crowns in the 2009 state budget. No one has been able to consume them in 26 days. On the contrary, there's a lot of planning, a lot of activity already going on from the allocation that's been made. And now we come up with further measures. So the picture that we're late for, with small measures, is completely wrong. This package of measures shows that we are using the strongest instruments across Europe in the fight against unemployment. Then the representative doesn't put any emphasis on the interest rate decrease we've been given. The effect of an interest rate decrease of 2.75 percentage points is NOK 20 billion in purchasing power for households. There is much more than any tax proposal can mean – and much more than any of the tax proposals the Progress Party has promoted will mean. In itself, it will be a powerful stimulus to the Norwegian economy. But the reason why we haven't moved on that way is that we get from many teams analyses of personal taxes that say that in the uncertain situation that we are now in, many more will save much more than before. It's not like you jump right in the store and spend all the money, so you get an activity going. It is much more targeted to combat unemployment to launch sensible measures to tackle those who are unemployed. It is imprinted on this package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e234	Now I think both the Minister of Finance and I agree that it makes sense for people to maintain a certain kind of consumption. After all, before Christmas, the Minister of Finance wanted people to act significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e239	It was VG who wanted it!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e244	It was VG who wanted it, yes, but I think the Minister of Finance agreed relatively. Then we should also agree that if people are going to maintain the consumption, or buy more, you might want to have something more money to buy for. And there comes the tax relief. But I note that we disagree on that point. I also believe that there is a broad consensus on many of the measures that lie here, and I feel that the Minister of Finance, in many ways, also admits that what is coming now, are things that could have been decided before. I am told that the money that came into the state budget this fall has not been used up yet. However, the point of the type of proposals and the decisions taken by the Stortinget regarding investment is that these things are to be designed, they are to be put on the market and then they have to be implemented. The earlier the type of investment decision comes into place in the Storting, the more important it is to have an employment effect for the current year. I am recording that the amounts proposed in this package of measures are also being made transferable, so that if you do not use up the money, some of this will have an effect next year. Then to the drop in interest rates. Like the rest of Norway, the Progress Party is very pleased that Norway’s Bank significantly reduced its interest rate for a short time. If you read the reasons for the Norwegian Bank, it was not the state budget that the government was trodden through in Stortinget before Christmas. The background to the reduction in interest rates by the Bank of Norway was the significant international financial turmoil, with the significant negative impact this has also on Norway. That is why Norway’s Bank lowers its interest rate. I now note that the Government is proposing an oil money industry that is in line with the Progress Party proposed in November. Perhaps then the draft budget of the Progress Party was not so irresponsible at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e257	The Minister of Finance's speech was very serious. It's dramatic when almost 100,000 people can lose their jobs. People have to expect that we, as politicians, are using all our labour to secure the jobs. There is a need for cooperation and pragmatism and not for games and dogmatism. We need to find the good solutions that can provide security for those who are losing their jobs and new optimism for those who create jobs. It is important to remember that our well-being depends on strong and profitable businesses. The crisis we are now facing affects employees in the private sector. Small and large commercial, service, construction and industrial enterprises are exposed. Many companies are also less likely to face the crisis, because we have a government that held the break button in business policy and has increased the taxes on businesses in every single budget – including for 2009. Therefore, the instruments must now be targeted at the private sector. It's important that we have two thoughts in our head at the same time. It is important that measures reduce the growth of unemployment. Therefore, it is absolutely right to invest in construction, clean up schools, clean up and maintain other public buildings, build several roads, build more railways. But we also need to make sure that the measures make us stronger out of the crisis, that businesses become more competitive and more robust. Therefore, it is right and necessary to focus on knowledge and environmental measures and to lower taxes. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right a few weeks ago put forward measures to secure jobs and strengthen businesses. Many of the measures presented by the Government today are good, and they will receive broad support in the Grand Duchy. I am pleased that the Government has listened to many of the recordings that came from the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, and from other parties and groupings. But when the government announces a full crisis, it doesn't hold out half a package. When the government chooses not to use the entire toolbox, it must be because Soria Moria was tied to keeping taxes at the 2004 level. I think it seems quite meaningless in the crisis we are now facing. The right is concerned that we need to get a balanced package of measures. It is important that we now think about the many who are worried and insecure about losing their job. Therefore, it is absolutely right and necessary to improve the rules on permitting. It was a suggestion the right took up before Christmas, and I am happy that it is now being implemented. At the same time, even better measures should be taken to provide more business-internal training. We need to use the period we are now in, to make sure that those who are losing their job, who are being permised, are given the opportunity to re-train and strengthen their skills, so that we get more competitive out of the crisis. We therefore lack some measures in the package. Much of it will, as I said, be supported by the Right, but we do not have measures that can dampen the fall in household demand. I also think we need to be prepared to work out of the crisis. Then we should also make it more profitable to work. I am thinking, in particular, of measures that can lower the taxes on those with low and very common earnings. And then it's important to remember that it's not just the construction sector that is affected by this crisis. I see that the government is proposing many measures that it is also in favour of. I have a great deal of understanding that the Government does, because it has the view it has on priorities. But at the same time, there are companies along our coasts, in industry and the shipbuilding industry, in trade and service, as we know will be affected by this crisis. We lack concrete measures there. Let me end by saying that the Right is focused on cooperation. We see that there are many good measures, and we would like to help make this package even better, so that we can both secure jobs and create more optimism in small and large companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e276	I would like to thank Mr Sanner for his constructive tone. That's right, there's a lot of action in this package that there's going to be a broad consensus in the Storting. I think the different assessments are going to be primarily about taxes. The proposals I have put forward for the Government are the proposals we are now promoting for the Storting. I am very pleased with the business cycle we are doing, as I also see that Norwegian Industry has proposed, and believe that it will very much hit the businesses that have the right to life, that can live when the crisis is over, that had the profits in 2006 and 2007, but that can now go on a significant click. It's about doing them over this. We have assessed many other tax measures. Some of our assessments have been included in the proposition, because we expect the debate on them to be significant. I would recommend the opposition to look at our proposal for short-term business tax to replace its own, because the opposition's proposal will only benefit companies with profits. If they use the same proceeds, that's just about NOK 3 billion, that's going to apply. 4 pst. of the profits. So that's a less accurate suggestion than ours. We have assessed tax laws for the private sector. We have rejected it in this round, not for reasons of principle or ideology, but because we believe that direct action towards construction – all these areas – is much more effective for business as well. After all, it is the business community that is building and maintaining around the municipalities. It's a mission for big and small entrepreneurs all around the country. The business community has also been very concerned that we should get good roads and good accessibility. It is a very good business package throughout — in addition to the measures directly targeted at the labour market — Innovation Norway, all of this that can help individuals and individual enterprises adequately.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e290	Measures to reduce the growth of unemployment, in particular in the construction and construction sectors and in road and rail sectors, are good. But we also need to look at the crisis as a turning point where we look up and look at measures that can help us get more profitable and strong businesses. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to focus on knowledge and to focus on environmental measures. There, I hope we can also cooperate with the Government to take action to resolve both the financial crisis and the environmental crisis. We have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. It will also help companies to be more profitable and stronger when we get out of the crisis. Let me take the two examples that the Council of State agreed with. The right, Christian People's Party and the left presented a proposal that could help more companies keep their profits from 2008 to 2009. I note that the Government has submitted its own proposal. We will be open to see if the Government's proposals are good enough, and we hope that we can work together to get an even better proposal that can help more companies. So the government has proposed to increase the grant to apprentices. Why could it not only be proposed to remove the entire employer’s fee for apprentices? We know that many companies now announce that they will take fewer apprentices in 2009. If enterprises take on fewer apprentices, it affects the whole of vocational training in Norway. Instead of just giving a little more in grants, we could remove the entire employer’s fee for apprentices. It could have made it cheaper to keep the apprentices and maybe more tempting for companies to bring in more apprentices. It is a concrete proposal that deals with tax relief that will be able to secure jobs and also help to strengthen vocational training in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e299	Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has today presented a comprehensive package of measures to limit the growth in unemployment that has been predicted and that we have already seen in the beginning. The package contains new measures to create jobs for a total of DKK 20 billion. This happens 26 days after the ordinary budget for 2009 has started to operate. This is powerful – whether you compare it with how we have dealt with similar crises in Norway in the past or if you compare it with how other countries deal with this crisis. I am also pleased that this time – both through today's package and through the already adopted budget for 2009 – we are earlier out of using the budgets to combat unemployment than we have been in previous crises. This is a very clear signal. The red-green government shall do what it can to combat the increase in unemployment. In the case of unemployment, an accident is for the person affected by it. Economic problems are an obvious consequence. Equally important is that you often feel that you do not contribute in the family and in society, and that you often lose your social network. Therefore, combating unemployment is the most important thing for SV in today’s situation. But we also have to ask ourselves why we've ended up in this situation. It is rare to blame others, but in the case of the international financial crisis, there is little doubt that Norway has little to do with the problems we are now experiencing. The financial crisis shows with all due clarity what happens when greed is released. It is now generally accepted that the financial crisis is mainly due to the lack of restrictions on lending from US financial institutions, combined with irresponsible monetary policies that gave very low interest rates over a long period of time. For example, the US investment banks could previously borrow a maximum of twelve times their equity. This restriction was removed in April 2004. When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt last September, they had borrowed between 30 and 40 times their equity. Loans from banks and financial institutions, such as if there were never going to be a downturn, created bubbles within the housing market and the stock market that have led to one of the most serious financial crises of the time internationally. And the Minister of Finance referred earlier today to Stiglitz, who says that ultimately it boils down to just one reason: the belief that markets are self-regulatory, and that the role of government must be minimized. Experience so far from the financial crisis shows that in countries where risks are jointly managed by economic development, the consequences of such a crisis are at least for the population. In the U.S., their parents are taking their children out of school because they can no longer afford to pay school money. Older people have to postpone retirement because their pension savings have been halved in value in a short time. Health insurance is often linked to the job. If you lose your job, you lose health insurance. In Norway, we ensure that everyone has access to substantial welfare services through a social security system where the pension is not reduced even if the stock market falls, through free public schools for all children regardless of the income of their parents and through a public health service with relatively small self-interests. Today’s action package is designed to reduce unemployment by 15 000 people. This means that many people get a more meaningful everyday life and avoid problems that unemployment often creates. And it is an important point to emphasise: the measures now being launched in many areas of Norwegian society are not meaningless emergency work. The action package has a clear green profile. We triple the contribution to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement through Enova. It gives money for better insulation and smarter energy solutions in barley. We get an industry that uses less energy. It is good for the climate and profitable for the companies. There will be more windmills and more district heating based on renewable energy. Let me give you a warning: there will be a lot of hammering and paint smell in schools, kindergartens and hospitals in 2009. We create an earmarked maintenance grant of NOK 4 billion for municipalities and county municipalities. The framework for schools and swimming pools is increased from 2 to 3 billion kroner. We set aside money for the construction of 1,500 new nursing homes and homes. It will give good jobs to many craftsmen all over Norway. Although there will be some discomfort associated with noise, dust and smell, I am sure that users will appreciate this activity very much. We give more immigrants a new chance in working life. We increase the period of leave from 30 to 42 weeks, while the number of days the employer has to pay to those on leave is reduced from ten to five. We're also increasing the apprentice's grant. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what will happen in the coming months. Today’s action package has been adapted to the current situation. The SV and the Government will follow developments closely and take more action if developments so require.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e329	First, I want to turn the clock back a little bit and say that I fully agree with the point the President had about personal responsibility. I'll do that in full. Then I will also mention that the representative Bjørg Tørresdal was the last representative – and I have settled my sins like that, I think. But the focus today has certainly been a little different, namely on the package of measures that the Government has now presented. It was a sober description that the Minister of Finance gave, and it was a number that struck me. She said that the package of measures would mean that 15 000 more people would be employed than if they had not had a package of measures. At the same time, the news today told us that Nav’s figure for increased unemployment in January – in one month – is close to 15 000. It says a lot about the dramatic situation we're in. It also shows that a package of measures by the Government cannot afford us out of a rather difficult situation, which I believe no government can fully zero, even though we in Norway are luckier off than many others. That also means that we from the Christian People's Party are open to the need for more packages. Because there's something that's really wasted with resources, is that we have a lot of free hands that could have been used in a completely different and better way. At the same time, it is clear that the document presented represents a total revision of the figures expressed by the national budget for a short period of time, and where the Government was criticized for being too passive in the situation that already existed. It must be said that for a certain period of time, the Government has underestimated the impact of the international crisis that struck inwards Norway as well. The explanation that no more was done with the real economy was that one wanted to ensure that the interest rate went down. I haven't heard that explanation today. I think that's basically a wise confession. On the part of the Christian People's Party, there is much in the proposal we can support. We had a lot of this in our package of measures, which we promoted in the ordinary budget – road, rail, cycle routes, building rehabilitation, maintenance, etc. We're now seeing, and we're fully supporting, that you're going into extraordinary grants to increase the number of nursing homes. We proposed 3,000. The government proposes 1,500, but of course we support any action in this way. We also notice that the government will meet the business community in terms of taxes. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left had their own proposal that was presented to the Government. We would like to see how this can turn out together, so that we ensure that companies that went well in 2008 but that may not do so in 2009 and 2010 do not come out unlucky. We also note some improvements in the Tax Fund. I give tribute to the Government for going in with so many dollars to secure civil positions in the police, so that policemen and women can do what they're really trained for. But we would like to see another offensive on the environment. I can't actually see that there's anything in there about taxes and taxes, to promote environmental technologies, environmentally oriented cars, etc. There are no increased depreciation rates to ensure investments with demonstrable climate effects. We cannot see that the tax FUNN is used to ensure more environmental technologies. Nor can we see that it is stimulated to speed up the transition to environmentally friendly cars. Here we would like to challenge the Government and hope that cooperation in Stortinget is possible before the final adoption of the package. We are prepared to do that on the part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e350	It is monetary policy and the decline in interest rates that is the first line defense in a crisis like the one we now have. It has been very important to be able to follow the decline in interest rates that is around us. An interest rate reduction of 2.75 percentage points has a very powerful effect. So I have all my words from the harvest in reserve: it was important to create the room that made the interest rate go down. Then I might think that the representative Syversen is a little tall and dark considering what they actually put forward in connection with the 2009 state budget. It was SEK 4-5 billion in addition to the 16 billion proposed by the Government. Now we're going to have 27 billion kroner in an additional package of measures. But I really don't think that time is such that we're going to squander on this. We present a powerful package to combat unemployment. We are much earlier out than most countries around us, after all, unless the challenges of unemployment are less. But the big challenge we are going to have is the start of the representative Syversen: although we are now presenting the strongest package, where the direct impact is estimated at 15 000 new jobs – jobs that would not have been there otherwise – the fall in demand facing Norwegian business cannot be compensated by these measures. Therefore, it is so important that the package is so strong on business-to-business measures in terms of change and knowledge. There is a very clear environmental and knowledge profile of the measures that lie there. I do not believe that there can be any principle for the opposition either that there are tax incentives to put environmental investment in place. There are powerful measures on the environment, many important follow-ups to what is in the climate agreement, precisely because we know that a large part of the transformation that we, as a society, must undergo and through which industry must take the climate challenge seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e359	I don't need to squat. But I might think that one should also have the opportunity to look a little bit in the back of what you really said, and how to characterize suggestions from other parties when they came at a time that obviously didn't fit the Government. In fact, I insist that the explanation that no more was done in the ordinary budget, namely that it would prevent a fall in interest rates, no longer lasts when we see how the situation developed from the budget was presented and presented in the future. It's not often that we from the Christian People's Party go beyond the Government's proposals regarding increased use of oil money. But in the situation we were in, we thought it was right to prevent more than absolutely necessary unemployment. It's a goal I think and hope we can share with the Government. With regard to cooperation in the future, we are very open to entering into the work that the Storting is now going to do to deal with this package, to ensure that the effects are as good as possible, and to use this opportunity to promote also environmental behaviour, to secure new businesses, to ensure that rehabilitation takes place, in such a way that it also benefits the environment. I am absolutely sure that many will agree with us. We will help to ensure that the time spent here in Stortinget to process this package is as short as possible, so that the effect can be as rapid as possible. As I said, unemployment is wasted on resources, and we really want to contribute to preventing unemployment from increasing more than necessary and proving itself at a high level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e368	We are in a politically very demanding time when it comes to providing people with security in everyday life. The current fiscal policy package targets actions that will counteract the impact of the international financial crisis on Norwegian jobs. The government combines targeted measures for increased maintenance and necessary business transitions to ensure Norwegian jobs in the future. A strong commitment to increased maintenance in the municipal sector and the modernisation of the transport sector, together with energy efficiency improvement, are specific features of this package of measures. The international financial crisis has several phases, and there is a need for several different measures from the authorities. The first thing they did last year was to secure liquidity for banks and to secure export finance so that they could carry out their tasks. Greater uncertainty about economic developments along with further decreases in demand for goods and services both nationally and internationally necessarily have negative consequences for Norwegian jobs. Large unemployment and lower incomes for individuals can cause social unrest in several countries. The Baltic is particularly vulnerable. The poorest countries will also increasingly notice the increasingly dangerous poor food security situation. The responsibility of the national States for ensuring the security of citizens is now evident. The loss of jobs is very demanding. Activities are stimulated by the action package in priority areas to promote migration. At the same time, we are in a situation where the soundness of growth banks is too poorly compared to market equity requirements of banks. This will greatly reduce bank lending if no action is taken. The government does not charge general tax relief to individuals. Such tax relief is not targeted and best suited to those who serve well. For this reason, the Government also implements targeted measures through the strengthening of the apprenticeship system, several hubs and more favourable leave rules for employers. We do this to facilitate the situation for those who become unemployed and need new jobs in a new industry. At the same time, the Centre Party will stress the need to continue vigorously the work to ensure that the weak in the labour market a place and income through their working capacity. The qualification programme must be fully implemented. There is time for careful reflection on why international finance could develop so risky. Many more than Greenspan in the United States will have to admit that one made a big mistake. It's time for change. Many look for leadership. For the Central Party, the core of the policy is to develop political leadership based on the best new understanding and knowledge of the international economic situation we are in, and what will happen in the future in the international financial market, with the associated consequences for the real economy and not least for the social conditions for the weakest part of the population. The compact majority of economic experts have shown little interest in listening to alternative economic views in the last 20 years. This has resulted in a public debate culture of how much is going to be quiet in the boat, rather than discussing alternative course developments both internationally and nationally. Today’s international security and stabilisation mechanisms have failed. We're now under pressure to think new. Therefore, we must now seek advice from international and national economists with alternative ideas and different perspectives. We need to develop new policies to meet international existing challenges related to renewable energy – instead of increasing stock energy consumption – as well as strengthening world food preparedness in a more ecological direction, so that food production can be lifted in all countries. So we don't need a stronger dose of old medicine. Now new international economic driving rules, a more active state and more long-term capitalists are needed, as Birkeland and Eyde were in their time. We are faced with an important and necessary debate on what we want with Norway and Norway's role internationally. The Norwegian uprising has opportunities like few other democracies. The action package is a necessary contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e383	If it could be a comfort to the Minister of Finance, I would like to say that I do not see the need – as previous speakers have said – to replace the Ministry of Finance and their great knowledge. I think we should use all their knowledge to tackle the challenges we're facing. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance in his speech today – and in the papers that have been handed over to the Stortinget today – has given us a common and real basis for addressing the big questions. We're facing a fall in gross domestic product during this year, that's what the Minister of Finance says in clear figures now – we've been suspicious of it for a while. And we're in front of some scary unemployment figures, because what the Minister of Finance said behind averages is wondering about a speed over the year that can quickly become even stronger than what is being expressed here. However, I think that the concepts we use are quite important in meeting the challenges we face. For most of us, there is no crisis – there are uncertain times. For a good part of us, it's bad times. And for some, especially businesses, maybe in special communities, it's a crisis. That's why it's important that we dose measures and meet the challenges so to say by these terms, I think. Then we might be – and that’s something a whole political environment will meet a little in the next few days – with an expectation crisis. It's like – if I'm going to use a picture – when you carry a box of drops into a kindergarten, put it in the middle of the floor, open the lid and say: one drop each, and when everyone's sucked on it, you carry the whole box out again. I'm afraid there's a lot of people laughing. I'm afraid it's a little bit the situation that politics can get into now, because you've invited so many people to solve all their problems in life, in good times and bad, through this crisis package. Then it becomes important to address what are the real crises that the package should contribute to solving, and that, for me, are very much linked to businesses. Let me say right away: Measures that have been referred to – NOK 16.7 billion in new, fresh money over the state budget for good purposes – I think I dare say that I support mainly. It is a good thing that when you invite a single Norway – public institutions, municipalities – to make good suggestions, and they come up with proposals of DKK 100 – 150 billion, and one is able to take out between 10 and 15 pst. Of them, it is clear that these are good proposals. When the Minister of Transport says that the ten sleepers are bad and have to be replaced, there is no one given in this room to believe that there are ten other sleepers that should have been replaced. This is the Minister of Transport's privilege – please, she has full support for it! It has been invited to a national effort and process. I think that when it comes to what we in the Left, together with our counterparts in opposition, and a set of all the other organisations have contributed, we have met with a responsive government. It's been an all right process. At my discretion, the Prime Minister has the cover to call it a national effort. We've all been allowed to contribute, and we see traces of what we've contributed, although there's a lot of common good in a lot of the thinking that's there. Fortunately, we are a country. I also want to say that it's very good on the green side. I think almost most of what's done there is good. There could have been things one would like to see more of, for example. to stimulate alternative energy by means other than appropriations, as the climate agreement called for quite strongly in the case of similar schemes to, for example: Green certificates, but we can also get back to that. I'm going to spend the last two and a half minutes on what I mean one doesn't hit well enough, and that at least I'm going to invite to work on. It is within the enterprises that really need tax incentives in this situation. The government is doing a lot of good. It expands the tax FUNN scheme – unlike everything they have done over the past three years, and it goes in the right direction – that is good. The government has put in place a mechanism to strengthen companies in deficits by leading the deficit towards previous profits. It's a certain parallel to what was suggested by us in opposition, but not exactly the same. Here we are away from some of the problems, at my discretion. What are the big winners of the government tax package? Yes, for example. – I am very much for small businesses – a small enterprise with 10–15 employees, in the construction industry, which has a turnover of 20 million. kr, which had a deficit in 2008, which has the ability to offset that deficit against a surplus in 2007 and which can also have new markets and good times through the Government’s expenditure budget. It's the companies that are the winners. But there are no winners of the large export companies that have 100 employees or more, which have their markets far away, and which have a maximum tax advantage in 2009 of 1.4 million. NOK – i.e. a turnover of about one annual work if you made a deficit in 2008. The bridge between the good 2008 and the bad 2009 year is not built in what has been presented here. I hope that it is possible to move the Government to do in the process of the Storting now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e412	I thank the representative, Mr Sponheim, for a constructive tone, for these are challenging times. He's quite right in underlining – and it's very important that we repeat it all the time – that for most of us 2009 will be a great year: we get real wage growth, and we get the effect of interest rate decline. There is no reason for the large majority in Norway to be the main target group when assessing measures taken under the State budget. It is those who are now uncertain whether they are losing their job, who are facing permissive alerts or who are afraid of permitting alerts, and it is those who are actually losing their job, who must be the main target group when we present a package of measures. They are also the ones we have directed our actions towards. That is why there are so many direct actions on the State budget, because we believe they are the most targeted in relation to the challenges we face. There will be good measures for business all over the world. But it's a very offensive package of measures. If we see the sum of the proposals to strengthen the Ministry of Industry's budget, the Ministry of Knowledge's budget and the Ministry of Labour's budget, there will be opportunities there. I perceive that the opposition has thought in the same paths as us to find a grip that is accurate in terms of the cyclical situation with which many companies are now going to struggle. I would encourage Lars Sponheim to go thoroughly into the proposal that we have now put forward. He's quite right that it's targeted at smaller businesses, but if we're starting from -- very uncertain, 2006 figures, it's 95 pst. by those who are in deficit. So I think it's a good grip on those who went with profits, who are now going with deficits, but who have the opportunity to get over their knees. It's money that they'll be entitled to in the future anyway. There is also a grip that strengthens the equity of businesses, as opposed to the sketch that I have seen from the opposition, that will not do so, and it is a grip that reaches the companies that are running with a deficit, while the opposition's proposal reaches those that are going with a profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e423	First, I don't like to talk a lot about myself in a context like this, but since it's economics, and I have to say that I have things to do with money, and trying to keep my personal weight pretty good, I get to say, yes, for a well-born 50-year-old who has come on the plus of property taxes, 2009 is a good year, and I had lived with worse years than that. What delights me more – because I have to admit that I have spent a lot of time worrying about my children who have bought a home lately, and who have lived a long time with an increasing interest rate – is that it will be all right for our children too. Maybe I didn't think that six months ago. Since many are in that situation, I think my personal witness embraces quite a lot. Our children have been better off because of falling interest rates on mortgages lately. I think a lot of people should be happy about that, including us in the parental regeneration. So to this with the businesses. I have spent the time I have had – an hour – trying to get into this tax package, and there is no doubt that it will hit many. If a business is so small that 1.4 million. kr in increased liquidity in 2009 is important – and there are very many – and the company had a deficit in 2008, which is a prerequisite, it is clear that it means a liquidity injection. For enterprises with up to 15–20 employees, which experienced a deficit in 2008, this is good. However, according to the reports we are now receiving in the case of companies facing dramatic changes, which are located in the boardroom and make budgets, are forecasting employment and extremely falling sales revenues, companies that did well in 2008, do not hit this package. It had an alternative way of doing it. I'm surprised if this is the Norwegian Industry package, if they've been fully awake when it comes to looking at all the consequences of it. Here I invite the Minister of Finance to join in doing something that is all right, actually pretty good, to get even better where mass unemployment can affect many communities. Hornstone holdings live from export markets that are not adequately addressed by them. This is an invitation and not primarily a criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e434	Then the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, will end.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e437	The government has dealt with the situation we are currently in, and is promoting a proposal for the Storting on a package of measures that we believe is well balanced. It is good that the opposition sees that many of the proposals they have taken up in dialogue with us have been taken care of, and it is right, as many have pointed out, that when we discuss what we think is sensible to implement in order to combat the impact of the financial crisis in Norway, there will be a lot of common goods. That means that many of the proposals are going to be widely agreed upon in the Stortinget. No one has criticised the size of the package – it is possible that the opposition needs a little more time on this, but there is no one who has been critical of it, first and foremost, from Storting’s pulpit. It's a very offensive act when we look at the countries around us. No one is taking as much action as we do, if we also measure the grip in relation to the type of labour market challenge and the impact of the financial crisis on the Norwegian economy. And – and that’s important – we come early, much earlier than others. There is clearly some myth here that many other countries have been out so early; it is wrong. If we look at what the EU has on average adopted by budgetary incentives for 2009, together with what they have announced for 2009, it is 1.1 pst. of GDP against our 2.3 – and then they are recommended to go up to 1.5. So we get early, we get much more powerful than the countries around us, we come up with well-worked projects that we know we can get started quickly, we come up with a clear green profile, and we solve important problems that we want to solve for the future. Nevertheless, we have to expect that unemployment will increase in 2009. We have balanced the package well. Of course, we are open to adjustments in the Storting, we want to discuss the realities of this, but it is also important that this package is adopted quickly. So in this balance, I would like to invite the Storting to further discussion. We are prepared to provide any background information that may be necessary for that work. But the green profile and the distribution profile are of course at the root, and they are clear and clear in both areas. With regard to the arrangements for the tax proposal, the representative Sponheim has the right to say that the corner stone holdings, i.e. major industrial enterprises, which may have terribly difficult times, but still have profits, are not taken by this proposal. But I'm not sure if there's any tax proposal that will actually be most helpful to them in the situation we're in now, because it's the fall in demand from the outside that's the biggest challenge. Substantially lower demand and significantly lower prices are difficult to compensate through the tax system. Then we have other, more offensive measures – measures for the unemployed, improvements in permit law, measures on Innovation Norway, other measures on the Ministry of Industry’s budget and other measures on the Ministry’s budget. These measures must now be combined to enable us to go into individual enterprises and into programmes in individual enterprises, so that during the time that is now difficult we can carry out training and further training programmes, develop new products, etc., so that it is possible to overcome the challenges we now face. I thank the opposition for constructive feedback. I don't think I should spend a single calorie on the debate that I expect is yesterday's debate, whether we come early or late. We come forcefully, much earlier than many others and with much bigger grips than most of the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e454	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-26.ana.ud1681e506	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
