ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e22	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Aud Karin Oen, has taken the seat. The representatives Erling Sande and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen apply for leave on 18 and 19 February – both to attend the Winter Session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Knut Magnus OlsenFor Telemark County: Lise Wiik
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e53	Knut Magnus Olsen and Lise Wiik are present and will take the seat. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will present a proposal for a representative:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e58	It is a pleasure to be able to make proposals on behalf of the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself on the necessary legislative changes, so that municipalities can introduce user management with parents' majority in the school's user board.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e63	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e66	On behalf of the representatives of Arne Sortevik, Bård Hoksrud, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I am pleased to make proposals to extend the transparency of correspondence between departments and external agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e71	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e97	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e106	The country's Minister of Justice has now demonstrated for some time that he does not fully know what he wants with Norwegian justice policy. He has also demonstrated that he does not know exactly what he wants with the development of the Norwegian police, and that affects the security of most people in everyday life. Now, for a long time, we've had a lot of weird things. First, the Minister of Justice demonstrated that he was a bit against and a little too free to speak. Then he was a little too and a little against the use of hijab in the police. So the big question now is whether he's a little bit too or a little bit towards extending the goal position of the police director. These are three things that come to the top of other difficult things. The Minister of Justice now has a record of dealing with an overall police force in this country, and the government of Stoltenberg must be the first socialist government to have deprived the police of the right to negotiate on the rest periods. I would like to see if Stoltenberg and his government would dare to do something similar to their friends in LO. My question to the Prime Minister in view of all these matters is whether he is comfortable with the recent Minister of Justice of the country, or whether he believes that the Council of State is now becoming a burden to the Government and – perhaps even more importantly – a burden on the security of most people in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e117	Any politician, including the Minister of Justice, must be assessed on the basis of the results he actually achieves in important areas. Minister of Justice Knut Storberget has achieved significant results in important areas. Therefore, there is great respect for the work he has done for almost four years in that post. He has e.g. made sure that we are now betting more on the police than we have ever done before. The budget has increased by over NOK 2 billion. But more important than that: In addition to giving more money to the police, the recording at the Police College almost doubled after we assumed the government responsibility – after the previous government, which was supported by the Advance Party. The police have also gained considerable access to new methods of investigation, including: own DNA records and, in addition, the nesting queues have been dramatically reduced. So in the heavy, important areas, significant progress has been made. That doesn't mean we're satisfied. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. But that means doing more to fight crime now. More money is being allocated. Atonement queues go down, and police efforts go up. As late as Friday, we gave money to many new civil positions in the police, so that more policemen could be released for police work. In the case of the Blasphesmi paragraph and freedom of expression, it was he who promoted that bill to the new penal code that makes us now remove the blasphemy paragraph. The Progress Party voted against the previous period. They've now changed their mind and are to remove that paragraph. I am glad that the Progress Party can also change vision once in a while. In the case of hijab, we have had a discussion now – that is quite right – about how to take the kind of religious considerations, how to practice and handle them. I think we'll take the time we need for that discussion before we conclude. The crucial thing is that the Minister of Justice does a very important job, achieves great results, strengthens the police, reduces the pay queue, improves resource access and educates more police officers than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e128	I perceive that the Prime Minister is impressed and comfortable with his Minister of Justice, and takes it for information. But Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen is out in the papers today and says that one must have a practical approach to the use of hijab in the police, and supports it. There are several discussions, for one thing is the use of hijab as a religious headgear, but those who want to use it based on a religious approach will have problems dealing with male colleagues in the high school of police in the case of close combat and other types of education, and they will have equal problems in dealing with interrogation situations, for example. I believe that this is a serious discussion, especially because today, too, it appears that we are now having the same debate before the courts of the country. Will the Prime Minister continue this debate, despite strong opposition in the Norwegian people and strong opposition in the police, or will he now put the debate dead and say no to the use of hijab in the police and, at least, also in the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e137	First to the first question, about my view of the Minister of Justice. He's doing an impressive job. He does what a Minister of Justice should do. He gets more people to pay for their sentences, prison queues go down, and the police have been given considerable increased resources – much more than when the Progress Party supported the previous government. No human beings are flawless, nor are justice ministers. Therefore, the Minister of Justice himself has said that the handling of the matter of religious headgear was not good enough, and that is why he has now submitted another case, namely that we should have a broad discussion. We should have it, and I think it is wrong – when you now invite a thorough and proper procedure – to conclude before the proceedings are concluded. One of the challenges is to find out if we are going to have one common regulatory framework for all public agencies. For example, one has lived with this in Customs, in some other agencies, and in Defense over some time, and one of the questions we have to ask is whether we should have one consistent line, or whether we should have different practices in different state agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e146	There will be follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e149	I record that even though the government is on a frontal collision with the Stortinget, it may seem that the government is actually a member of the hijab police. Now, obviously, the next case is the courts, if we're going to believe what we're reading in the press today. Now there are a lot of issues where specific requirements are being addressed from some immigrant groups. Now it's hijab we've been demanding halalmat in prison. We have shared swimming lessons, and we have even received demands for non-alcoholic days at restaurants in Norway to adapt to Muslims. My question to the Prime Minister and the Government is: Is it such that this government believes that it is the task of society to adapt to immigrants, or is it still the way in which the Progress Party believes it to be, that it is the immigrants who must voluntarily adapt to the society in which they have chosen to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e158	For all people living in Norway, Norwegian law applies. Norwegian law is for everyone to adapt. For those living in Norway, regardless of their skin colour, background and religious outlook, human rights are also valid. It's unconditional. This applies whether there is a view of equality, freedom of expression, freedom of religion or other fundamental principles. Norwegian law and human rights apply. But we have a diverse society. People have different beliefs, different cultures, different backgrounds. I think that diversity is good. We should welcome that diversity, and we should learn to live with that diversity. I believe that Norway has become a richer society, both culturally and economically, because we have had immigration. There are a lot of problems we're doing today that we wouldn't have been able to solve if we hadn't had immigration. But there's no excuse that someone uses religion as a reason for, for example. discriminating women or trying to restrict freedom of expression. We must be completely uncompromising in Norwegian law, human rights and freedom of expression. At the same time, we have to learn to live with diversity, that people with different backgrounds live together in the same society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e166	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e169	There can be no doubt – the Minister of Justice is on the wane front. We've seen it in the blasphemy case. We've seen it in the hijab case, and we've got it fully demonstrated by the lack of handling the policy crisis. The main problem, however, is that the country has both a Minister of Justice and a Prime Minister who in the United Kingdom, both before and after Christmas, has claimed that the development of crime is moving in the right direction. Police district figures show the opposite: crime trends are going in the wrong direction and, in particular, alarming developments in the number of drug cases. The last one is fully documented by the Evening Post in the last few days. The decline in the number of drug cases is the best illustration that the Government has not followed up the police with the necessary resources, and that the Minister of Justice has either not had an overview or has not done his job as the top political officer for the police. So my question to the Prime Minister is, does he see that his answer to the Storting before Christmas, when he dismissed the opposition's observation that crime is going in the wrong direction, was wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e178	First just briefly on blasphemy, as the representative mentioned first. It is such that the right has turned the trill around in this matter. In the last period, they put in a government proposing to keep the Blasphemi paragraph, repeated it to the Storting and justified it in principle. Now, all of a sudden, they're essentially opponents. It's a very honest thing to change, but then I think you should be a little low in a discussion where a minister of justice has changed his view on one point, namely whether or not you should have an extension of the hat paragraph. He has explained that he no longer means anything. It is a straightforward matter, in exactly the same way that the Right has changed with regard to the Blasphemi paragraph, which Knut Storberget proposed removed and now gets removed in line with his proposal. So, about the police. There are many unsolved tasks, and there is a lot of crime in Norway that needs to be combated. That's why it's good that we've almost doubled the recording to the Police College compared to when the Right crashed. We put significantly more effort on the police than on the Right when they were in government and were responsible for, among other things. what was done in the justice sector. And the settlement queues have gone down considerably. That doesn't mean we're satisfied, that we're in the goal, that just means that there's much more to this government than to the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e185	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e188	One of the Prime Minister's predecessors, Per Borten, was known to think well about before he came to a conclusion. He characterized it to lead the then coalition as to carry on cracking staur. As far as the hijab debate and uniform in the police are concerned, I have registered that the Prime Minister will take time. We also see that there are different opinions within the government, and that may be why. But the debate seems to go a little off track when one of the prime minister's former state councils and current prime minister's representatives argues so that the use of hijab in the police can be compared to interception, which is actually punishable in our country. So my question is: For the sake of debate, and to get the integration debate on a more correct track, wouldn't it be an advantage for the Government and the Prime Minister to cut through and clarify the Government's view on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e197	I believe that the debate we have now shows that it is good that we have a debate, because there are points of view and nuances that it is important that we think through. We live well with the fact that hijab is not allowed in the police while we have an assessment of how, if necessary, religious considerations should be taken into account in the police. One of the challenges is that several governments, including two Bondevik governments, my previous government, have lived by allowing this in Defence and Customs, and then one of the questions you have to answer is that you have to have a discrimination against, for example, Customs and Defence, how many governments have allowed hijab for a long time, and have a different practice in the police, or are you going to have a similar practice? Well, I don't have a non-slip answer to that today. That's exactly why I'm busy having a debate, listening to opinions, having a discussion, getting a proper procedure and then concluding. It is not clear, at least, that discrimination is to be exercised or that the various levels of discrimination are to be distinguished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e202	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e205	I agree with the Prime Minister that in a democracy debate and even doubt are important, and I think it is also possible to put it into perspective that even if one has taken a position and argues for that position, the power and strength of the counter-arguments may be so strong that it is right to turn it around. I also think it is one aspect of democracy that is important. But when we've seen in these last weeks that positions have gone from sloping security to doubt, to perhaps turning around, it's easy to remember the Prime Minister's very strong postulate at the entrance to his majority reign, namely: now it's going to be traded and not negotiated. There's an unusual amount of negotiations to see. Does the Prime Minister regret, is he willing to reverse the position he took at the time? Could he now admit that there is as much negotiation as there is, and that it might be just as good for democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e210	The crucial thing is whether the Government reaches the goals it set itself, and in relation to the objectives we set in the Soria Moria Declaration, we are very well off. We have managed to do important things in terms of health, school, municipal economy, climate and all the heavy and important issues. And since the justice sector has emerged here, there is thus a formidable commitment to justice – a significant reduction in payroll cows, almost doubling the admission to the high school of police, substantial increases in the appropriations for the police. It's an act. But before you act, you like to have an assessment, a discussion, arguments, considerations. It's quite obvious that it's happening in any government, including one party government. It happens in minority governments, it happens in majority governments, and it happens in the Storting. So I'm for discussion. There is a time for discussion/assessment, and then there is a time for conclusion and action, and this government is dealing with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e215	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e218	It is right, as the Prime Minister said, it is a time for action. One of the things that this four-year period was going to give us was a welfare system with much better follow-up to all those who had difficulties, who were weak, who needed to get the help tailored around them, rather than experiencing that they had to organize the public thing. I'm talking about what's the main intention of the Nav reform, the main intention of a reform that former Social Minister Ingerd Schou said was a reform for'scratch'. It's a reform for the weakest to get better, and not to have a split and piecemeal treatment for the people who may be the weakest in our society. Now we see a situation in Nav that's completely opposite. Today in the Official Journal of Bergen, Gunhild Hofstad, who has paid the annual allowance after three weeks on part, and who now has to pay in full for medicines in spite of being chronicler, says that it is “paradoxically that the auxiliary equipment should make you sicker than you are”. This is something you could sort out in the Nav offices before. You could get a free card if you just met up. So now it's several weeks' waiting time. The newspaper refers to the same thing. There are several weeks waiting time for almost all – 13 out of 17 – areas where money is paid out – it fails in payment. That means that there's no snag, there's just a crack in all of the seams. It's the worst make-up seam you can find, that you currently have within Nav. My question to the Prime Minister is then: Why has the government not seen this before? Why has the government not taken action? This situation has now grown, especially during the last year, to a situation of waiting list increases for things that could be done on the day before. Is it that this is too much for one man, that all the great, total work within the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion requires more than one person? State Councillor Andersen can't do the job?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e228	It is very important that the representative, Solberg, addresses the very basic challenge – namely the Nav reform, which has been widely agreed in the Stortinget and which several governments have worked out in an excellent way – and that is that in the past we did not have a well-functioning welfare system. We had a welfare system in which we saw serious weaknesses, among other things. that very many users were sent from office to office, because they had different needs. Some were in need of social security, but they also needed follow-up in relation to employment, labour market measures — that type of instrument. This is why the very idea of the Nav reform is to create a system that is much better for users, by combining social security and labour market policy/offices, working together. Unfortunately, we do not have that much experience, because it has not been so long, and we are in the midst of the reform – many municipalities have still not got a Nav office – but at the pilot offices that have worked for a while, the labour research institutes have done research, and they show that it is much easier to get good solutions for users, much easier to get collaboration across different services and thus to get better adapted solutions for individuals. It is important that we take with us when we are now in the midst of a reform. There is no excuse for reporting in several Nav offices that people do not receive the benefits they are entitled to, in time, whether they are unemployed or other schemes. Therefore, significant efforts need to be put in place to do something about it. We know that there are especially two states that have had problems, Hordaland and Oslo, and in Hordaland there is a significant increase in efforts. The waiting lists have now come down to three weeks, as foreseen, and therefore an additional effort is now being put in Oslo to solve the remaining problems there. For it cannot be assumed that people who are entitled to, for example: unemployment benefits, do not receive that benefit. When this is handled in one department and by one government council, it is precisely from the idea of the Nav reform that you cannot separate social policy from employment policy and social policy. It's connected, and that's why it's one department.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e235	The whole Storting agrees with the intention of reforming Nav. The problem is that this government is unable to implement it better for its citizens and users. At the moment, it's worse than it's ever been in the Nav offices. It's worse for the disabled, it's worse for those who need help. Just getting a free card takes longer, and it takes longer to get their disability recognised. The labour market enterprises, the management companies, which are ready to help those who have the most difficulties in the labour market, through retraining and updating, report that they are getting fewer registered from the Nav offices because of the chaos there. My question to the Prime Minister is: When has chaos been discovered, and what action has been taken? This is not new. Some of these numbers have dripped out. It's not just a question of day money. There are questions about 13 out of 17 areas where deadlines are broken, and this concerns those people who have the worst advice, who have the most difficulty. It will lead to more people who are not satisfied if the matter is not cleared up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e242	Firstly, where we have had Nav offices over some time, and have research work, it shows that there are at least good results for coordination of actions against individuals, which is the main objective. But, as I say, there is no excuse for anyone to feel that they are not getting the benefits they are going to have in time. That's why extra resources were put in last year, 100 million. kr extra, because we saw that there was a lot of need. It was meant to be temporary, but it was continued into 2009, because we saw that the needs were great. Last Friday, last week, we gave money for 320 additional jobs. Now you're starting to hire people and teach them up, so they can be inserted. But we're not waiting for the 320 new ones to get into full-time work. In the meantime, additional resources are also being deployed, such as: in Hordaland, where the results are now visible. In Oslo, we hope to achieve the same results in a short time as we now deploy extra resources. Listening to the right is still a little strange. For the right, in its budgets, it has proposed to cut the daily allowance for the unemployed, as they did in the previous period. You have knowingly and willfully wanted to reduce the daily allowance. We want to have good day money arrangements, and people get the money in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e249	There will be follow-up questions – first Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e252	As Erna Solberg has quite thoroughly documented through his question, the problems in Nav are growing for every single day. Here it is important to stress that it is not the Nav employees who are the problem, but that it is the government's implementation it lacks. The problems in Nav have grown for a very long time. Time and again, from the side of Stortinget, we have confronted the government with the major problems, and time and again the government has promised a fine and improvement. Then we've seen that the problems have gone from bad to worse. As magnification representatives, we receive almost daily enquiries, both from users who are in despair, and also from Nav employees who are doubtful that the problems are tumbling up. I get to say as Einar Førde so well once said it: People don't have a term, they say one every day! Some of the problem now is that the Nav problems are affecting the welfare community in its basic strengths. What will the Prime Minister do? Has this job actually become some number too large for his responsible state council?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e261	When we saw that there were problems in some parts of the Nav system in the middle of a comprehensive reform – with pension reform, Nav reform and also conversion of some other benefits – we deployed extra resources last year. Then we got a message that there were even bigger problems. That is why we proposed extra money in the package of measures that came on 26 January, and as Stortinget now decided on Friday. From the right and from the side of the opposition, no additional crown has been proposed. If you were so concerned about the situation, you could have suggested extra money in the budget last fall – then we would have described the situation – or now on Friday, when we provided extra money for 320 new jobs. In addition to 320 new posts, which were adopted on Friday, we have announced that we will bring a separate case in a few weeks, so we can take further action if necessary. So measures have been implemented. The measures were implemented on Friday, and we announced further measures. Here we should not rest until we see significant results, and before those people who claim social security get the social security they need in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e270	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e273	I must be allowed to correct the Prime Minister a little, because these additional measures that have come from the Government have received support from the opposition, at least from the Progress Party. Both the last jobs and the 100 million. kr extra that came before Christmas, received support from the Advance Party. To get the prime minister a little bit ahead of him: it's the fact that the Progress Party actually granted 700 million. kr more than the Nav Government in its alternative state budget. It's kind of strange what's happening inside of Nav. The starting point described the representative Solberg in an excellent way, but that's the opposite. These people who now need help, who were supposed to get a simpler process by dealing with one case handler, may now experience having to deal with both two and three case handlers. So it might not just have to do with what's on staff and resources either. There might be something about the internal processes and maybe also a professional struggle within the building. Does the Prime Minister have a comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e280	First of all, the situation is that Nav has needed increased resources. We've granted increased resources. My point was not that the opposition had voted against them, they have voted for the extra money the government has proposed, but as late as Friday we proposed money for 320 new posts. There wasn't one extra crown in addition to that from the opposition. As regards the position of the Progress Party on Nav, the Progress Party has proposed significant cuts as late as last year's budget and also in the 2008 budget. But you try to cover it by transferring all the health refund from the Ministry of Health back to Nav. It blows up the budgets, but there won't be any more money. On the contrary, there will be less money, over 200 million. kr less, for operation of Nav. To the extent that there are problems in Nav today, they would be significantly greater if the Progress Party had its cuts adopted, which the Progress Party in the budget debate justifies as proper cuts. The Progress Party is to cut down on many important public agencies, whether it's the Credit Authority, before the financial crisis came, or Nav, before we had problems in the labour market. When they're confronted with it, they're trying to run away. We disagree with the policy of the Progress Party and believe it to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e289	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e292	The Prime Minister now falls into the ordinary ditch, which is to start talking about the politics of other parties instead of taking responsibility. If welfare is most important, Prime Minister, there must be no doubt that there is one important job the Government now has, and it is to ensure that the Nav reform supported by the whole Stortinget – which the whole Stortinget wants to succeed – is actually successful. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Prime Minister is now hacking into old history instead of telling Stortinget what he's going to do to ensure that people who have legal claims for benefits get their benefits in time. He has declared here from the Speaker's Chair on Friday that it is unacceptable that this does not happen, but we do not know what the Government has done and do to ensure that this is corrected immediately. It is not enough to get a case to the Stortinget at the end of March, when people have waited weeks to get completely obvious and simple benefits as a day's allowance. Here's a system failure, says LO leader of the state, Turid Lilleheie. It is not just a question of money and jobs. There are also questions about taking organisational action, and it may be a matter of saying to Nav that this money is to be paid immediately and immediately. When will the Prime Minister ensure that this is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e300	First of all, I believe that the representative Højbråten raises a very important fundamental question: how do we manage to implement the great and important Nav reform that the Stortinget has been behind, and that more people in the Government have been working with over many years? So we've done a lot of things this year that have gone on. We are doing extra things in the 2009 budget, but in addition we proposed many new jobs in the package of measures that the Stortinget adopted on Friday. These positions are now in the process of recruiting, recruiting new people and teaching them, so that they can get to work on solving the unresolved problems in Nav very quickly. So it's doing something right now in these days, and we also have good experience putting extra resources into some states. There are two states where we have had major problems, and that is Hordaland and Oslo. Hordaland, we've got as good a solution as we can. Oslo's on the move now. There is a formidable effort by thousands of Nav staff all around the country every single day. We need to strengthen their ability to solve the unresolved problems and have therefore granted extra money. Then there will be a matter of its own to the Stortinget in a few weeks, so that the Stortinget can then have the whole discussion about how we implement the Nav reform, on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e307	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e310	We have an explosive development in unemployment and therefore an explosive development in the number of applications for unemployment benefits or daily allowances. Of course, it's a demanding situation anyway. The importance of focusing attention on such a situation is, in the view of the Left, that of the unemployed who are suddenly on the street and who lack daily living income. Of course, it is unworthy to have to be sent to the social office. I'm sure we'll agree on that. I would like to launch a proposal for the Prime Minister who should be assessed, namely to give entitlement to the payment of daily allowances, for example. after two to three weeks, irrespective of whether the application has been processed. Then this can be settled later when the application has been processed, and in the worst case you can have a refund scheme if something has been done wrong. There would be something that would take care of the individual in a good way, while at the same time making it possible to manage such an explosive development in cash. Will the Prime Minister consider such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e317	The answer to that question is yes. We need to do more things to deal with the unacceptable situation a good deal of unemployed people meet, that they don't get social security in time. On the one hand, the emergency measures we have taken in Hordaland, which have produced good results. There are three weeks of treatment left, reporting the news. We're doing the same thing now in Oslo, hoping for equally good results there. We'll do that right away, we'll do it right away, we'll do it in these days. It's working on bombs in the department and in Nav to solve the acute problems. The second is that you have to make system changes. And then there's one possible suggestion, but we need a few more days to consider, before we come up with an assessment and recommendation of that question to the Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e324	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e327	It's quite exactly two months since the Prime Minister stood here in the oral question procedure last and said very wise things about respect for opinions you don't share. He quoted the philosopher Voltaire, and he said, "We have to be very careful in this country to set ourselves up so that we punish organizations that have positions or opinions that we don't like." At the time it was about the Salvation Army, which had been deprived of its state aid for child and youth work. There is reason to raise the matter again today, because what has happened in the last two months that has gone since the Prime Minister said his wise things here in the Chamber, is the very opposite of what we had reason to expect. The appeal of the Salvation Army has been upheld by the Distribution Committee and 13 new children’s and youth organisations have received letters from the same body with threats of losing State aid. Today, in our country, we can read what kind of questions organisations are now being asked, which are entirely on the side of what is involved in State aid, and which reminds us that we now have a policy of opinion in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality that follows the positions and attitudes of organisations on different kinds of issues to find a basis for refusing state aid. This concerns a large part of the voluntary organisation Norway. They feel that Norway is getting heavier during this government. They experience that their freedom and their identity are threatened. After all, the Salvation Army has these guidelines for lifestyles around the world. It's not just in Norway. But the difference is that in Norway we have a bureaucracy that sits and ‘takes’ their guidelines in this way. Does the Prime Minister maintain his principal position from 17 December last year that we in Norway cannot have a situation where the organisations feel that there is a search of meaning and a punishment for opinions that the Government does not like?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e343	I maintain my view from the last time we discussed this in this room. There will be a decision from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in a short time. It is important that I do not go into the proceedings in that case, in order to comply with the administrative law. It's an appeal. There is a decision in the Divisional Committee which has been appealed to the Department and the appeal procedure which will have been completed in a short time. However, let me say a little in general about an important issue raised by the representative, because this is a balance between different good and important considerations and actually different human rights. One is non-discrimination on the basis of skin color, sexual orientation or religious views. The second is the matter of freedom of religion. Sometimes there's a conflict between the two considerations, and then we have to find a balance. That's what we have to do in this case. The legislation created on the basis of an attitude of a sample set up by the Bondevik Government, which was widely consulted and reached broad agreement, including from Christian youth organisations, states that the State can provide grants to voluntary nation-wide organisations which by their statutes: ‘does not create barriers to the full participation of children and young people from all social groups irrespective of sex, ethnicity, disability or sexual orientation’. Then the Distribution Committee has said that the Salvation Army, which does not fully open up to homofiles, is in conflict with that paragraph. I can understand that you can believe that when you have made such a code and have a broad agreement. Then others say – and I understand very well: No, the Salvation Army must be allowed to discriminate against homosexuals. Well, then we have a conflict between two important considerations. I'm busy living in a society where we have diversity, where we accept that people also do things that we don't like and that say no to homosexuals, even though I'm a member of that homophile should be treated like all other people. Then there is a decision about a few days in this specific case, which I can't say anything about before the decision comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e359	I am pleased that the Prime Minister at least maintains the principle, that it is not acceptable for us in a society like ours to punish economic organisations that believe anything other than what is perceived to be politically correct at the moment of it at all times. I'm assuming that means that he'll look at how these guidelines actually work out, when they have this kind of rash. I would also recommend that he read today's Our Land and see what kind of questions, almost in a harassing form, that his office asks the management of the Salvation Army. Then I would also recommend that the Prime Minister speak with the Minister of Finance, who is now making exceptional rules for organisations that are not going to receive tax-free gifts. It also happens on the basis of opinions that the Government does not like. It's about organizations that support Israel. Both the Prime Minister and I can have different opinions than these organizations and the Salvation Army and what do I know, but that is not the case. The question is whether, in a liberal, open, voice and liberal society, we should have room for organisations that are not entirely at the forefront of the red-green regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e366	I believe it is very important that organisations that have opinions and positions that the Government does not like receive state aid. It's part of the freedom of organization, it's part of the diversity we want. So it's obvious that those who criticize the Government, who disagree with the Government, for example. in the view of homophilis, State aid shall be granted. What I tried to say is that sometimes we face dilemmas, because at the same time we want to avoid discrimination against homosexuals, that we are discriminated against on the basis of, for example, sex or ethnicity. Therefore, some years ago, organisations made regulations that say not to discriminate on grounds of sex, ethnicity, functionality or sexual orientation. Then the Distribution Committee says, well, then the Salvation Army can't get, because they differ from others. So the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality says that we need to look into this. It's an appeal, because here it's a dilemma. Disadvantages are demanding, because you have to weigh different good care for each other. So I'm going to say that you're doing that in BLD, and in a short time we're going to have a decision. I can't say anything but that it's a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e371	There will be follow-up questions – first May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e374	We politicians have opinions about most of it. But that doesn't mean we're going to direct others' views. We had a big debate about marriage law for a while back. There was the different point of view. But the whole Biggest thing was that as politicians, we were not to rule the Church's inner life. It was the church itself who was going to decide whether they wanted to marry gay or not. We said this is a church they own case. But what we now experience from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality's bureaucracy is that a question to the organizations about the new marriage law has changed their view. One goes in with a number of questions that really have nothing to do with the case itself, which can be perceived as a censorship and a desire to manage the points. No one wants to discriminate against homofiles. Everyone wants children and young people to be included in the work that leads to land and beach. But what's eye-catching is that one can feel that organizations need to change their positions if these deviations from the government's positions. Even if the Prime Minister says he doesn't want to, he has to promise that he will change the regulations, so that one gets away with the ignorance that is actually there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e382	I'm against discriminating, against discriminating homosexuals and heterophilics. I'm for organisations to have freedom of organisation and get permission to do things I'm against them doing. So the dilemma is that we have adopted some guidelines that all organizations, including the Christians, put themselves behind, where it said that if you don't discriminate against people on the basis of sex, religion or sexual orientation, you can give state aid. So then we have a conflict, and that's the conflict between two price-worthy goals. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is now going into it. Either we look at the practice, or maybe we'll look at the contents of the guidelines. But then it will be difficult to delete only ‘sexual orientation’. In this case you will also look at the other conditions on which you are not allowed to discriminate. I think we're going to finish this procedure, and then we're going to get a decision in that case. But I think it's an important and interesting debate, because it's about something we've really discussed too little in Norwegian society. There is the relationship between diversity and diversity, but at the same time having some principles of non-discrimination and some basic rules that no one can be allowed to break.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e389	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e392	The Progress Party shares the views of the Christian People's Party on organisations that are now under attack by the BLD in terms of tax exemptions and in terms of their transfers. If this is as obvious as the Prime Minister actually says that it should be, that they should receive State aid and not be discriminated against, then perhaps the Prime Minister should take a small talk with the bureaucrats and with the Council of State in the department concerned. But this is only a small part of what affects the voluntary sector in Norway. It is far more important that the government of Stoltenberg has not complied with the requirement to abolish VAT for the voluntary sector. Voluntary activities now pay an additional cost of 25 pst. when purchasing goods and services. It's called VAT, but it's a tax on hard work and voluntary work of $1 billion. This has been promised – for three and a half years – by the Prime Minister to go away. Now we want a clear answer: when will it be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e399	Firstly, it is wrong to say that the BLD attacks the Salvation Army or other non-governmental organisations. A code has been created that has also been widely endorsed by many Christian organizations, saying that no one can be discriminated against because of sexual orientation, sex, religious background and ethnicity. Then there is an assessment of whether the fact that the Salvation Army does not treat homosexuals with others is a kind of breach of this provision that it has been widely agreed on. It's a management case. I can't go into it, because I have to be neat in terms of the administrative law, but there's a decision here in a few days to make this balance. But there's no attack from BLD. It is a distribution committee that practises a code that it has been widely agreed on. As regards voluntary activities in general, this government has increased significantly the appropriations allocated to non-governmental organisations. We made sure that the key was changed. It means significantly increased grants to sport and non-governmental organisations. We have also announced that we are prepared to increase the aid, up to NOK 1 billion, which is the amount of voluntary organisations themselves have calculated that they are taxed in terms of VAT. So we're willing to go significantly into and increase support to non-governmental organisations, also to compensate for what's their expenditure on VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e406	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e409	The Prime Minister points to the key issue of the degree to which the State should address three opinions and positions down the ears of the voluntary sector. It may appear from a discrimination perspective, as is the starting point for this issue, but it is also a problem that can be passed on in a beneficial way. It is clear that when this is regularly brought up, it is because the Prime Minister has a credibility issue related to this – the relationship with which opinions will be pushed down the voluntary sector, and using the voluntary sector to promote his own policy positions. In the government’s voluntary service, issues related to integration were addressed in chapter after chapter in relation to international cooperation — a number of politically correct things. Would it not be part of the picture here that one preferred the value-neutral VAT exemption, rather than using the state's money to promote its own positions in relation to the voluntary sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e416	As I have stressed several times, this government is very concerned about increasing support for non-governmental organisations. Therefore, support is also significantly increased, not least by ensuring that we have a majority to change the key. When we were in opposition, we got a majority for it and got it done now. The second is that we have announced that we are willing to increase the support by NOK 1 billion, which is what is estimated to be the VAT costs for these organisations. This means that we strengthen the support significantly to non-governmental organisations compared to what the former government did. I think it's a little weird the whole time to hear the very commitment you have to the fact that we haven't fixed up all of the missing we inherited from the previous government, during this time we've been sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e421	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e424	It is only to be noted that the Prime Minister has turned around in the allocation of funds to youth organisations. I guess he – with his signals – is going to draw that conclusion too. What I'm very impressed about is that the Prime Minister claims that the rules that the Distribution Committee is set to enforce are actually made by the organizations. These are rules created by the Government. It is the department that makes rules, the Distribution Committee enforces the rules. What strikes me is that we now have a government that repeatedly does not believe in the debate as a form of change in a society. No, you have to make rules, you have to run the organisations, it's the debate on blasphemy paragraphs and everything else – you have little faith in the debate, and you have little faith that you're going to help create a voice society, that through public debate and voluntary engagement you can help develop and change a society. No, it's through the rules of the ministry that you have to change a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e431	We all agree that the job done by the volunteer organizations is a very important job, that they need increased support, and that they should have freedom, of course, to do many things, think things and organize things in ways that are not in harmony with what the government thinks is the best. That's why we have volunteering to create diversity. Variety is necessarily a difference. However, the fact that there are rules for the granting of State aid to non-governmental organisations and non-governmental youth organisations is not a matter for this government. So it was the Bondevik II government that reduced a sample to make these rules. They made these rules. There were youth organisations, they recommended them, and we created them in close dialogue with the organizations. No one protested — at least no extensive protest — against saying that support should be given to those organisations that do not discriminate on the basis of gender, ethnic background and sexual orientation. And then you get one thing on the table, and you see that here you have a dilemma. Well, then we look at this dilemma. Then there'll be an appeal. And turning around in this case is not possible, because we have not dealt with the matter before. We get a decision in a few days, and it's going to be a good decision. I think I can then come back to Stortinget – and everyone will be in a good mood – after that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e438	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e442	I would like to talk to the Prime Minister about distribution policy. It is true that we often discuss issues of distribution and distribution policy, what makes differences, for example. related to tax policy, where some degree of entry point in the top tax makes the big difference, or who owns shares, etc. But this week there was a leak from a research report from Fafo that has not yet been published, which, in my opinion, may raise much deeper and much more important questions through unacceptable differences, namely the dangerous difference in a society, a systematic difference in who is taking education, what professionals call the reproduction of inequality in education. There's a kind of difference in Difference Norway that intervenes in many situations. It's about people's health, it's about people's lives, and it's about social problems, which, in total, are about completely basic values of life that we systematically make in that there's such a systematic difference between who takes higher education. This research report, which is not yet public, shows quite clearly that this development is unfortunate and does not go the right way, to say the least. I guess there's no special side to today's government, because there's a development that's gone on for a long time, but it hasn't improved during today's government, which always has to take special responsibility for a development that doesn't go in the right direction. And I would like to help challenge the Prime Minister on how we can jointly address this challenge. Because this is a kind of distribution policy that traditionally cannot be mastered on the traditional right and left axis, but I think there's a broad consensus about this. Does the Prime Minister agree that here we have a common challenge that it is necessary to promise, to get a completely different distribution of who is taking education? There is no academic arrogance on my part, because we need non-academics, but they should be distributed among population groups just as education should.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e451	I believe that the representative Sponheim raises a very important question. What we see is that even though there is a significant focus on education, and even though more people get more education in Norway than ever before, and also that we come out fairly well internationally in relation to the number of people who receive education, there are huge, systematic social differences. The education system reproduces inequality. If your parents have high incomes, high education, the chance is that you will get high education yourself, much higher than if they don't. The social difference has become somewhat less because so many more receive education, but those who do not receive education are still overrepresented among those who come from their homes with little education. Now it's not in itself a goal that everyone has a high level of education. But it's important, as Sponheim was about, that there are no systematic differences that make us preserve and consolidate inequality in our society. And I think, unfortunately, this starts early. I think it starts already in kindergarten/children's school. This is why we need to make an early effort in relation to those who are struggling at school, an important contribution. That we have to contribute with Norwegian training, among others. to children with a migrant background is an important contribution. Then we see that something dramatic also happens in high school, how many young people fall out, they don't do high school, and it also contributes to social inequality. If that were the case that we could just allocate money, it would have been kind of easy. Our problem is that we've allocated a lot of money to education, and yet we're not solving the social inequality. So here are some embedded systems, embedded cultures, that are very controversial, and that take time to fight, but that we still have to do everything we can to fight, through better education, more targeted education and through actions to those groups that fall from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e460	I think it is important that we dare to take these debates on differences and the fight against differences in the future, and the Left would like to contribute to it. It is true that no one chooses their childhood, and it is also true that no one chooses their parents either. There are also clear limits to – and I think we agree – the extent to which society will intervene in what is happening around dinner tables, and what incentives are given in each home. That's why school becomes so important. The school thus becomes a major instrument for compensating the community and society and for providing the right incentives. Also in this context today, and for all the days ahead, the Left is going to talk about the meaning of the precisely the teacher, the adult, the wise man. It should be so that the absolute best among us, the wisest, should be teachers, because it would solve so many challenges in society, not only in knowledge and value creation and all this prime minister and I have talked a lot about, but also in these obvious, social and other differences that we have to fight. That is why the Left's answer will be the teacher. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e465	Yes, I am -- because it's quite obvious that the most important thing we can do to strengthen the content and quality of school is to strengthen the teacher's role. It's about better and more teacher training, but it's also about hours, more presence, and we're busy doing something with both. It is so very easy in all policies to be most concerned with what can be measured – the number of hours, the number of annual work. It's important, but it's also important to have quality and content in the hours and the annual work we have. It's obvious that there we wear a little bit, and have done it over many years. Because we see that even in schools where there is a lot of resources, we don't always get the results we want. That's why I'm very pleased that there's now a very up-and-coming and active debate on how to strengthen quality and content in school, and thereby also reduce the social differences, which are about more than just resources, although resources are also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e470	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e473	The Prime Minister, in the view of the Left, said very clearly that the teacher is important. Then we also know through research, such as, for example, The government has initiated that results at a school are closely linked to the professional background and competence of teachers at school, and we know that there are dramatic geographical differences in this situation in Norway. Then we are in the following situation: in our neighbouring country, Sweden, the consequence has been taken of the importance of the teacher. In the course of three years, ending in 2011, 30 000 Swedish elementary school teachers are to be trained through systematic further education. The government has a scheme to ensure that 2000 teachers in some disciplines, fully developed in 2011, receive such further training. At the pace of the Government it takes 40 years for all Norwegian teachers to receive the essential training. When will the Government change course, so that all teachers in all disciplines receive systematic further education, and so that one should not wait 40 years to ensure good enough teachers, which is absolutely essential to combat the social differences that the representative Sponheim raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e480	A few days ago, the government presented its own report on the role of teachers and teacher training, and it is now to be dealt with in the Stortinget. I don't know exactly the numbers that Dørum mentions. But the main purpose of that message is to strengthen teacher training, and to strengthen teacher recruitment. We also provide and have put forward measures to strengthen the continuing training of teachers and have also committed permanent appropriations to the continuing training of teachers, as well as better recruitment of teachers, inter alia. Through the GNIST programme, we are taking action and implementing, and we would like to have a discussion in the Storting on how we can do it even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e487	Anders Anundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e490	It must be quite embarrassing for a social democratic government to experience that the social differences actually increase on their guard in the government quarter. The role of the school as a socially equalising factor is crucial. A new research report from the Hedmark College shows that it is the school and not the parents’ background or education that is crucial to which children succeed in school, and who do not. The distinction between so-called good and bad schools is very much based on the type of pedagogy used. So-called modern pedagogy, of which this government has been a very strong supporter, with large rooms and plains with many students and few base stations, leads to both troubles, noise and unrest – and twice as many ADHD diagnoses as it gets at the schools that succeed in social cohesion. The Progress Party has been concerned that a person should have a better structure in school. But the school for which the Government is now responsible through this report prevents the possibilities of both social cohesion and learning. Is it time that the Prime Minister also helped to turn the school policy around?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e499	I believe that what all parties should take on is that Norway is a country where we spend considerable resources on education. We also get very good education in very many areas, and many teachers make a formidable effort every day in Norwegian school. We train more, and we actually also have less social inequality in Norwegian school than in very many other countries. But despite the fact that we have less social inequality, and despite the fact that we have a lot of good results, I see that the school is struggling with some very serious problems, among other things. that the social inequality is still there, and that too many learn too little. For this reason, this government has been concerned with quality and content in school from the first day — increasing the number of hours, strengthening the continuing training of teachers and, not least, putting a great deal of effort into early work. Because what we see, for example, reaches us. Compared to Finland, while Norway is often waiting for quite late schooling to put in extra effort when some children are struggling, it is doing so early in Finland. We believe that early efforts and extra resources for reading and writing are important. That is why it will also come from 2009. Thus, not all problems have been solved, but considerable efforts are being made to address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e506	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e510	Nearly 14 months have passed since the Prime Minister in his New Year's speech to the Norwegian people: ‘The Government has taken note of the message.’ It was a response that Norwegian school students did it poorly, both on national samples and in international surveys. Since then, differences have continued to increase — we are at the top of the world in terms of differences between students. And the results in school haven't improved. For the Right, it has always been important to focus on the most important first, to teach children to read, write and calculate to enable them to cope with further education and working life — and not least to reduce the differences between pupils due to different social backgrounds. Today’s government has focused on school leisure and school food rather than schooltime and school content. It is also the case that there are now fewer teachers in school than when the government took over in 2005. My question to the Prime Minister is, does he think that having fewer teachers in school, investing in school leave ahead of school time, and promising billions of school meals is the right solution to balance the differences in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e522	Firstly, this government has made a significant effort to strengthen content and quality in school — with several hours, with extra effort in accounting and writing early in the education cycle, with significant strengthening of teacher training and more for the further and further training of teachers. This, of course, does not mean that everything has been solved – there are still many unresolved problems – but that means that from the moment we get to grips with the serious problems we have in terms of quality and content in school. As far as teachers are concerned, the number of students is falling, and the effort of teaching resources in relation to the number of students is thus increasing. The group size is going the right way under this government. It's not dramatic changes, but there's actually more effort by teachers compared to the number of students now than under the previous government. I think we're going to be a little less concerned about hitting each other in the head with these kind of numbers, and a little bit more concerned about discussing what they are -- what to say -- the basic system problems we have in Norwegian school, where we see that where we put considerable resources, we don't always get as good results as we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e529	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e532	I agree with the Prime Minister that we must look at the basic structures. We've been trying to have social cohesion in school for over 30 years, but we haven't done it. Then I think there might be two important arenas we've failed in. One is that parents are important for children’s learning and motivation. Nevertheless, we feel that the government’s representatives take action to remove the teacher-parent combination, to want full-time schooling and previous school start-ups, and to give a clear signal that it is not important to get to home-school collaboration. In addition, we could read in VG yesterday about Mandeep, which is one of those who dropped out of high school. He wants a very clear signal, and that's that we need more mastering for our practically strong students in Norwegian school. There are students today who have had no hours of mastering. It's not strange they're dropping out. There are two system changes that the Prime Minister could address and that will receive the support of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e539	I very much agree that too many young people leave high school before they have any approved education are very serious. I also saw that look in the VG yesterday – it makes an impression. Again, considerable efforts are being made, but more needs to be done. We're concerned with the practical training. We have now increased the apprenticeship grant, but we have also introduced – extended from a couple of pilots to now the whole country – a system to take a form of mixing full vocational training and more practical training in the company. Admitting at least some of that, so that you get some qualification, even if you don't take full secondary education, is an attempt to prevent so many from falling out of high school. But also here, there's a question of doing more of what we're already doing, and partly of having an open discussion about what it is about Norwegian society that makes many people not completing high school, even though they have an offer to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e546	Let's include one more main question – how many follow-up questions do we have to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e549	I noticed in the question round that has just ended, about the social-democratic school that has been playing down, that the prime minister there said, "Maybe there are not the number of annual papers to be counted." Maybe that's not the money it's on to get a good school. Maybe there's structure and quality it should be more focused on. It brings me back to Nav. In previous questions today, I have almost seen the Prime Minister as arrogant about the problems you face within Nav, by the Prime Minister refusing to take responsibility and answer the questions he is being challenged to, and rather refers to the policies of the other parties. However, the situation for Nav is that in at least three years — from 2005 to 2008 — the number of employees increased with nearly 1000 annual jobs, despite the fact that unemployment was actually halved. Now we are in a situation where we are likely to reach an annual figure of 13 500 – still with a much lower unemployment rate than what we experienced during, for example. The Bondevik II Government. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister also hold on to the same argument regarding Nav and the content of the reform as the arguments he uses for better quality in school? Maybe it's not the number of years it's about. Maybe there are no more people or more money. Perhaps the original proposal for the Nav reform of the Progress Party is the solution, one that brings together all these stages together, including the social action. Maybe that's the solution to achieving what we're all interested in, that's to get into a one-door policy, that every person got one case handler and not two or three, as the situation is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e558	The representative Per Sandberg used the term ‘arrogant’, which is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e561	It's almost always that when we look at large public agencies and welfare organisations, it's a question of both more money and more resources and how we organize and use the money. So we normally need both more money and better money. It's true at school, and it's also true of Nav. I'm absolutely sure that the challenges Nav is facing right now, not being able to solve without going through with increased resources. That is why we went in with extra money on Friday. But I'm also quite sure that we're not just solving the challenges with more money. We also need better money. We can see that, among other things. in Bergen, where problems were addressed, both by providing more resources and by organising it in an even better way. It is true that Nav has received significant increases in appropriations. That's what they got because they've been in the middle of a big reform. All reforms tend to require increased resources in an implementation phase. Nav has been in the process of a major conversion. Recruitment offices and social security offices are merged. And they're in the middle of the pension reform. In addition, we are also changing key performances such as rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which are changing to one common performance. So here's the big reforms that have demanded big, extra resources. So we need to focus on both organization and resources. Nav is making a formidable effort. There's an incredible number of people there doing an amazing job every single day. But there have been some unacceptable examples of people not getting the benefits they're going to have. That is why we implemented measures last year, we came up with new measures now on Friday, and we have notified a separate case to Stortinget in a few weeks. Let me just say for the record that I think I answered the representative Sandberg, or another from the Progress Party, a little unpresist instead. It is true that it has been many years since Hijab was allowed in the Defense Department, but it has not been so many years since it was allowed in the Customs Department. I just want to say it for the sake of order, so there should be no misunderstanding about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e574	I thank you for that clarification. Now the situation has become like this, despite the fact that one has had a lot of increased annual work, that it is not just those who are waiting for a day's pay, who have to go over to social work in order to get a social benefit. Now the situation is so that it's gotten worse for many other groups, which might be even worse. I think not least of the disabled, the lonely caregivers, people waiting for child support and child welfare, etc. These are also suffering from the situation we're in now. I must be allowed to say that there has been no lack of warnings. During the autumn of 2008, warnings were given to the responsible State Council. And one year ago, a question actually went from the Storting's big group to the responsible state council in this area, so the government could have reacted at an earlier time. Then the Prime Minister shows that there is going to be one thing – a big message. It'll take a few months to get a decision out of it. I record – when the government council is on vacation – that Laila Gustavsen from the Workers' Party says that more waiting time has to be calculated. Is it acceptable that we should now just wait and wait for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e585	We're not going to rest. We should not wait for measures as long as there are people who are entitled to social benefits, social security or other benefits and who do not get them in time. That is why we took significant action last autumn. We'll continue them in 2009. Therefore, on Friday – a few days ago – the Stortinget adopted 320 additional posts, so that we could deal with several applications and offer a better offer. Then we put resources in before we look at the new people, where we see we have problems. When, for example: in the case of unemployment benefits, there are problems in two counties, Hordaland and Oslo. In Hordaland, they are now practically solved – at least we see very good results there – while in Oslo, extra resources are now being deployed. We're not waiting. We're taking action. Some measures can be taken immediately. Urgent measures and emergency measures are now being taken. Other measures will, for example: require amendments to legislation and some detailed assessment. We will assess this in the matter we are promoting for Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e593	There will be two follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e596	There is no doubt that what the Nav reform needs is more of the right things and less of the wrong things. The Prime Minister said earlier today that last year we contributed 100 million. kr extra to Nav. We see the result in Oslo, by putting a stop to employment in January. It shows that you haven't directly taken advantage of the opportunity that Stortinget gave last year in a good way. Furthermore, it is also important, in the view of the Progress Party, to focus on how to reduce the process time — and quickly — and to put in place immediate measures. In this connection, we see in the evening post today that city council in Oslo Jøran Kallmyr offers Oslo to help Nav. Last week the private temporary employment offices also offered to help Nav with proceedings. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to merge the social offices so that more people can concentrate on the issues that are under the same roof in Nav? And will the Prime Minister immediately open up so that the private can also join and relieve Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e605	We must take immediate and urgent action. So we have examples of how it helps – type of Hordaland, where immediate action has been taken that has produced significant and good results. There is no way to apologize for the fact that people who are entitled to unemployment benefits or other social benefits do not get them on time. It has to be traded all the time, without delay, to solve the problems. There's a formidable effort in Nav, just to solve the problems. But it is in a way now to open up a whole new debate, namely that not only labour and social security offices should be merged, but labour, social security and social services, I think it will easily make it even more difficult, because it has nothing to do with any of the problems Nav is now struggling with, that a total collapse – and I think it is right – has decided to carry out a very large reform, which includes thousands of people, namely, to transform the whole labour and welfare system by merging it into one system. It's demanding, it's offered some extra challenges, but there's no excuse for the people who don't get the social security they're going to have. Therefore, immediate action is taken, and we will not rest until everyone gets the benefit they are entitled to, in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e612	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e615	Through this questionnaire, we've got what's going to be this government's standard response to all the challenges, that's that it spreads blame instead of taking responsibility, and that one responds to any challenge that the government has granted more money. But if only more money had been the solution to the Nav challenges, the problems would have been solved. One sees clearly that states that have the same economic resources as Hordaland and Oslo solve the challenges in an excellent way. The challenge is to have a government and a government council that has not given priority to implementing a Nav reform that has been widely endorsed by the Stortinget. There is something wrong with the implementation, not the reform. More money is not the solution to all the problems, one must also use new solutions. Will the Prime Minister open up to, for example, to increase the use of relieving hubs and perhaps also using other private employment agencies to relieve Nav, so that Nav can concentrate on what is the most important task: to give money to people who have a legitimate right to money?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e624	Firstly, this government is taking responsibility. We take responsibility for what is going well, but we also take responsibility for what we see is not going well. For example, we take responsibility for Nav not doing his job in all areas, and put in extra resources where we see that there are now problems, for example. in payment of leave in Oslo. We did it in Hordaland and got good results. Now we do the same in Oslo. However, I believe that the Right and Advance Party in the opposition must nevertheless bear in mind that they are being compared with the Government, and then it must be right to remind you that the Right in its budget for 2009 proposed to cut the daily allowance, that all unemployed people should get a couple of thousand dollars less, at least two waiting days – less money, anyway. And it must be allowed to show that the Progress Party in its budgets has every year proposed several hundred million dollars in cuts to Nav, which had made it even harder and even fewer positions there. Comparing the policies of different parties is part of the political debate, and the opposition must tolerate it. Then we're willing to use reintroduction companies. We are willing to think new and will make different suggestions. We need to discuss them. We are taking immediate action, but as we do, we are also discussing other measures and promoting those measures for the Storting in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e633	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e638	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing him. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives of Laila Davøy and Harald T. Nesvik, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Care, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Justice, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e662	From Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Finance: ‘The municipalities send claims to relatives for payment in connection with the disappearance of persons who have been in hospital/housing. The additional requirement is due to changes in income that have not been included in current payments. The deadline for the change of residence after someone has gone away is 6 months. Many people react strongly when as much as 2 years after the person has disappeared, they get a claim from the municipalities. Will the Council of State set time limits allowing the municipality to wait no longer than until the residence is settled with extra requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e670	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e676	From the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance: ‘The Norwegian economy rock is small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than 100 employees. For such non-deficit enterprises in 2008 and not in the construction sector, it is difficult to find other rapidly functioning measures in the budget for 2009 or in the package of measures than increased taxes. Can owners and employees of such enterprises expect any change in this attitude from the Government in the further work of measures against the economic downturn?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e684	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e691	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘More drivers on the express buses between Sørlanden and Oslo have been fined for driving above the speed limit for buses of 80 km/h. Drivers find it a problem that the speed limits of the E18 between Kristiansand and Oslo are several places up to 90 and 100 km/h, while buses have a speed limit of 80 km/h. These speed determinations often create dangerous traffic situations. Will the Council of State be in favour of raising the speed limits for buses corresponding to the different speed limits applicable to the E18?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e700	It is correct that motor vehicles with a maximum permissible laden weight exceeding 3500 kg or motor vehicles with a trailer should not run faster than 80 km/h, even if they are signs with a higher speed limit. These limits are mainly of concern for road safety. Heavy goods generally require longer braking distance, poorer manoeuvrability and therefore greater risk of accidents than light goods vehicles. It is also the case that most countries have a lower speed limit for heavier vehicles than the one that is otherwise applicable, and the difference in speed limits for heavy and light vehicles is less in Norway than in many other countries. The question of whether buses should be able to comply with the speed limits of 90 and 100 km/h has been assessed in the past. In particular, because increased speed increases the level of pollution and the risk of serious accidents, no changes were made to these rules when they were assessed by the previous government in 2005. However, I would like to point out that some years have passed since these arrangements were made, and we have now had some good-standard routes operated by express buses. Many buses used for such transport have a good safety standard. I am also busy helping to make public transport more attractive to travellers. Although registrations made by the State Road Service have shown that express buses on motorways with speed limits of 90 and 100 km/h often run faster than what is currently legal, there is likely to be a potential for shorter travel times on some routes. So I would like to ask the State Road Service to reconsider whether there is a reason to increase the speed limit for express buses with a high level of safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e713	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It might have been desirable that she had been something clearer and more accurate in her answer than she was, for this is really a matter in which it should be quite simple for the Council of State to conclude. The reason is that both the National Association of Transport Companies and the two major trade unions in the bus sector, the Professional Transport Association and the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, are all in total behind the demand to increase the speed of buses in line with my question. I would like the Council of State to respond clearly to the fact that she really listens to these major trade unions in the bus sector, and that she is influenced by the signals she receives from both the employer and the employee in terms of the requirement to increase the speed limits for buses, so that one comes to a conclusion that is in line with what the industry itself wants, both on the employer's side and on the employee's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e720	I have a very good cooperation with the Transport companies' National Association and with the organisations. I listen carefully to what they have to say, both in this and other matters. When the previous government – Bondevik II – refused to follow this up, I thought it was right and reasonable to take the time to get a file and assess the case on the basis of it. But in my main answer, there was a positive attitude from my side to evaluate this in a positive way. When you are in a state council position, it's a good idea to take the round and get a case plan and make decisions on the basis of the professional recommendations that come there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e725	I think it was an uplifting answer. I perceived it there that the Council of State is interested in resolving this matter as much as possible in line with my question and the input that has come from the various actors in this area. One is hoping that the Government will find a solution to the question fairly soon. I could perhaps just mention – and I am sure the Council of State knows – that a letter that goes on this question from the Transport Company's National Association dated 29 October has remained in place. Why has that letter remained so long in a drawer at the department? Has there really been a need to work so long with the case, or what has happened before? This is a matter that should have already been concluded, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e732	It's a letter that has come, dated October 29th – that's right. It's a letter that I unfortunately didn't know about. There are a lot of letters coming in to the Ministry of Transport. The message content is very much about resuming your assessment. We get a lot of letters of that kind. That it has not been followed up in a time when the Ministry of Transport has had its hands very full with a national transport plan and other pressing tasks, I believe there are a lot of good reasons for doing so. But now we're going to follow up. I will try to do what I can to ensure that there is no long procedure on her.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e740	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘A new report on ‘Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy’ concludes that the Nordic countries should cooperate on common shooting areas. Can the Council of States confirm that there are no plans to eliminate or reduce the activity of the Eastern Region of Hedmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e749	On Monday 9 February, the Government received the Thorvald Stoltenberg report «Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy». The report is a result of the Nordic Foreign Ministers' wish to make input to stimulate debate and new initiatives in Nordic cooperation. The report contains many interesting suggestions, which go into the responsibilities of several departments. The proposals will now be examined and discussed both nationally and in the Nordic cooperation forums. Some of the proposals can be implemented quickly, while others need to be seen in a longer-term perspective. One of the proposals in the report is cooperation on the operation and exploitation of our country's shooting and training fields. This proposal is based on pre-existing input from the Heads of Defence in Norway, Sweden and Finland on closer coordination of, among others. the existing shooting and drill fields of the countries. Today's and the future's operating patterns and demands for our officers and soldiers lead to the need for continuous and continuous high-quality training throughout the year. This is a prerequisite for good and effective military training. In this context, it is critical to have access to shooting and training fields located near the military user. Furthermore, it is important that Norway has shooting grounds that allow allies and partner countries to train and practice in Norway. It is a goal that the field of defence shall be adapted as far as possible to the training and practice required to clarify the strengths of the tasks and operations which they are required to carry out. As regards the question of the future of the Eastern Region of Hedmark, there are no plans for the closure of this area. The defense has invested large amounts in the field of shooting, and there is a clear need for the field in the years to come. In other words, there is no plan to eliminate or reduce the activity here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e762	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary response, and I am satisfied – for the time being – with the answer and the conclusion. There are some aha experiences and one gets a little worried when not anyone – Thorvald Stoltenberg – says that there is a need for a common shooting field, and the report does not say where the shooting field should be. On the basis of that, I asked the question. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that proximity to a field of shooting and practice is important. As you say at Rena in Åmot in connection with the region field, you use it every day, and that's what's so important. I don't really have any further questions, but I interpret the answer to the Council of State to that there will be no reduction or closure of the shooting range in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e769	So there are no plans to wind up the firing range, on the contrary. The field of shooting and training associated with the Eastern Region is absolutely necessary for the daily activities of our forces both in Rena and in Elverum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e777	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e780	I have addressed a question to the Minister for the Environment and Development: «In the Court of Justice of Labour since 14 January, the County Council of Hedmark is quoted as saying, in a debate on the management of wild game, "We clearly see the need to distinguish predators from buffalo." In Hedmark we know that it is this line that his bureaucracy has followed, but there are no clear signals to the Storting about their conclusion. The county therefore pursues a policy across the Storting's clear premise that rights should not be lost and a two-part objective throughout the country. What will the Council of State do with regard to the State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e789	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen refers to a quotation in the Court of Labour from the County of Hedmark. The Minister for the Environment and Development has therefore asked the County of Hedmark for a statement, and he has replied, among others. the following: Today's management of gaupe, yerv, bear, wolf and queen is based on St.meld. No 15 for 2003–2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, and its treatment by Stortinget. In the Storing Message, the Government adds up to a two-part objective, i.e. a predatory policy to ensure both sustainable predatory wildlife populations and the continued active and versatile use of the land resources and the maintenance of living communities. The size has decided that viable farming activities will continue to be possible in areas of predatory game, and a management of the four large predatory animals will be provided to enable small livestock farming to continue in areas of predatory animals. The management shall be differentiated in such a way as to give different emphasis to different interests in different areas and to the different predatory species. Pursuant to the Roofing Wilderness Regulation, the robbers are to draw up a regional management plan for robbers. The management plan shall focus on a long-term geographical differentiation involving the best possible distinction between grazing animals and the permanent occurrence of predatory game. Furthermore, the County refers to the letter of 28 July 2006 from Minister for Agriculture and Food Terje Riis-Johansen and Minister for the Environment Helen Bjørnøy, which sets out in detail how to follow the principle of differentiated management, based on a breakdown into priority predatory areas and priority grazing areas. Its name is, among other things, in areas defined as priority predatory game areas in the regional management plans, sheep production and other off-farm production shall be adapted based on the occurrence of predatory game in the grazing area. It further states that ‘in priority pastures, undertakings shall be able to assume that predatory game shall not prevent traditional operation of ovine animals on pasture and reindeer farms.’ A regional management plan based on the national stock targets for the individual predatory game species in the region has been developed in Hedmark. The management plan provides for a long-term, geographical, differentiated management, where Hedmark is divided into priority grazing areas and priority predatory game areas, respectively, in line with the Government’s predatory game policy. Through various voluntary prevention measures, the organisation of grazing areas and the killing of pests, the aim is precisely to distinguish predators and grazing animals in time and space. The aim of a geographically differentiated management is to contribute to a predictable, long-term and targeted strategy for the management of predatory game, which both reduces the losses of domestic animals and domestic animals and meets the national stock targets for predatory game in Hedmark. From this I note that the county council in Hedmark's work on the management of wild game is in line with established national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e806	I thank you for the answer, which was very complementary, but which does not cover what is actually the consequences around. It surprises me that the countyman is not much clearer. We see that business interests are being distorted. It is not possible to maintain a two-fold objective of the areas in Hedmark at present. We see what the consequence of that is. It is that business interests are being distorted. The government has also resorted to buying out some pasturage interests in an attempt to get rid of the last remnants of pasturage interests. We also see that it affects the life base quite widely for people in the area. It surprises me that the county is not much clearer about giving that kind of signal back to the department, so that you can build a predatory game policy based on what's felt real out there. I would like to ask if the Council of State will not take it back to the Minister for the Environment that there is a very great need to look at the predatory game policy in the light of the actual consequences that are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e813	Now I have some problems going into the circumstances in Hedmark. I just have to admit to them that I don't know so well. But it is true that when you have cross-political agreement on the Storting – all the parties outside the Advance Party agree on the overall predatory game policy – and agree that you must have both predatory game and buff, you have to find measures to prevent the two groups of animals from grazing together or grazing on each other, which unfortunately have been the situation in many places. It is a fact that in many situations there are demanding and painful processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e820	I have a great deal of understanding that the Minister for Fisheries may not be fully involved in the problem of predatory game, so I'm not going to use it too much against her, and so the follow-up becomes a little special. But I hope she will bring back to the Minister for the Environment that I, who lives in the middle of the area and see the consequences of this, see that it is a bureaucracy that partially pursues a policy that does not convey the consequence of going back to the political level. That's what's a lot of the challenge here, that it felt the consequences are different than the stated objectives, both the two-part objective and that rights should not be lost. There is a fundamental difference in how to start attacking the problem. In fact, you have to be realistic about losing rights. It disappoints me that the county is not much clearer here. In any case, I would ask the Minister for Fisheries to bring back to the Minister for the Environment that there are major challenges in creating major conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e827	As I said, here are the demanding balances, and there are no balances that the county councilman in Hedmark does alone. Here too, regional predators have a role to play. The geographically differentiated policy is anchored in the regional predatory areas. I trust that the county council will follow up the government's stated policy in that area, and that he will also report back to us the conflict situations that may arise. In addition, I will convey the message to the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e837	From the representative of Laila Davay to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘The resources of the regional health establishments resulting from the package of measures shall also go to non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health establishments and which are integrated into the ‘provide’ responsibility. Despite this, not all this will involve such funds, including Modum Bad, Oslo Hospital and the City Council Clinic. Will the Council of State ensure that regional health establishments allocate funds to the non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health establishments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e848	From the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘The undersigned indicates that the issue of Corridor Asians in Norwegian hospitals seems to persist and reinforce despite repeated promises by the Council of State. As I see it, the interaction reform is not responding well enough for the acute situation. What concrete immediate action will the Council of State take to address this unworthy situation in Norwegian hospitals and will the Council of State take an initiative towards regional health companies to ensure adequate medical bed beds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e859	From the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Justice: ‘The number of newly created drug cases in Oslo police district was halved in the last four months of 2008 compared to the previous year. It seems strange, not least because in many living environments, for example: Along Akerselva, there is great concern that drug trafficking is increasing, with more uncertainty in the living environment as a direct consequence. Oslo's chief of police thinks there's a campaign in the Oslo police force that's the cause. What does the Council of State think is the reason why the number of open drug cases is halved in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e870	From the representative of Mr Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘In its oral Question Time on 11 February, the Council of State weighted cost-effectiveness as a central criterion in the focus on renewable energy. The lack of wind power was due to the fact that you get more by betting on an ac. With such logic, hydropower would be at the heart of Enova's renewable initiative, but the Council of State concentrated instead on offshore wind power and biopower, with high subsidy needs. What does the Council of State actually mean when talking about cost-efficiency and renewable energy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e878	Questions 6 to 9 are postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e884	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘Lexcus is at risk of becoming an ecological and economic disaster. lice that are resistant can both eradicate wild salmonid strains and cause serious setbacks to the farming industry. On 10 December the Ministry organized a seminar on salmonmus. The experts' advice was clear. Immediate action is needed to reduce the risk of development of resistance and new treatment regimes need to be developed. Have the Council of State plans to follow up its advice, and when can we expect to see the effects of the measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e893	First, I just want to stress that I'm taking seriously the problems of salmon and resistance development. Therefore, in 2009 the Food Safety Authority, which is operationally responsible for implementing the public measures against salmon fever, was allocated fresh funds to increased supervision in the fisheries health area. The Food Safety Authority has also initiated a number of processes in the light of the advice given to us at the seminar on 10 December. Lacecus is not a major problem for the farmed fish as such today, but salmon is a threat to our wild species. The comprehensive measures taken by the Food Safety Authority have the primary purpose of reducing the presence of salmonids in the environment and reducing the problems of the development of resistance in salmonids. In view of this situation, I would like to propose amendments to the legislation on the control of salmonids, including: with an increased focus on further responses to development of resistance. I would also like to propose a number of measures to prevent this, and in concrete terms I would like to mention: – notification and investigation obligations in case of suspicion of resistance – requirements for follow-up of treatment against salmonids – treatment methodology requirements – Food supervision may establish zones and control resistant salmonids in the same way as in case of infectious diseases Food monitoring is now revising the action plan against salmonids in order to include measures against resistance development in the plan, and they are in the process of implementing a separate action plan against the development of resistance to salmonids. I believe it is important to continue and also extend the campaigns with common exploits with low action limits in large areas. The coordinated winter and spring conflicts are now taking place in the West, and a similar campaign is planned in Troms for the autumn. In these campaigns, the Food Safety Authority prioritises the treatment and monitoring of resistance status. In parallel, the Department has asked both the Institute of Marine Research and the Norwegian Research Council to give priority to salmon industry in the coming years. Having said that, of course, the aquaculture industry also has its own responsibility. Increased use of large compartments makes treatment against salmonids more difficult. At present, the legislation is designed to allow large rams if the breeder is able to treat the fish satisfactorily. But I am open to review the legislation in this area as well, if necessary. When we can see the effects of the measures, as the representative of Sahl also asks, it is difficult to say something blatant about today. It will take time to develop new leaching agents, and therefore our main objective must be to be able to use existing leaching agents in the industry for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e925	I thank you for an offensive response. And I thank the Minister for taking the signals seriously, it may sound like this, even though we have not been fully informed about what the individual measures are all about. What surprises me is that the minister says that salmonmus is not really a problem for the industry, but a problem for the wild. When we see what happened to the industry, for example. in Chile, in Ireland and in Scotland, where salmon has really been a major problem, I cannot see that the Minister can confirm that it is not a problem for the industry. It is a serious problem for the industry to follow the rules that apply. And then there's a question: what are the new rules coming? Do you go from the number of lice allowed on the salmon? Or do you insist on it? In that case, the salmon industry will face and is unlikely to do so. I cannot see that it is any other way than to follow what the researchers have said, that new and robust treatments need to be developed. The development of the production and use of lip fish needs to be intensified. It is also necessary to develop rapid methods of analysis, to identify and find ways to control the salmonids that are resistant. Does the Minister see the same challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e934	I have by no means tried to minimize salmonids as a problem, but the situation in Norway is totally different from that in Chile. There we have just seen that both the industry and the environment have been on the verge, because we have not made strict enough demands on the issue of disease control and that kind of thing. In Norway we have strict requirements, and now we are proposing even more stringent requirements for salmon. But I don't want to use words like ‘nutritional disaster’ about the situation we're in. The solution problem in 2008 is about as it has been in the years before, so we haven't got any significant deterioration in the situation. That being said, we have just asked the Research Council and the HI to give priority to salmon industry, because we need new knowledge, we need new methods, and we need new resources. We need to constantly work on developing that. At the same time, it is important in the short term to have the best possible impact of the remedial measures implemented. That's why campaigns and coordinated detoxification are so important, so that farmers don't drive and detoxify each other, so that when Breeder A has lost his plant, we only have the same problem with the neighbor. We have to do this in a coordinated and unified way, so that we get the best possible effect of the efforts being put in. As far as the lice limit is concerned, we have a low lice limit in Norway, and we have not proposed any changes to it now. The most important thing is to have a good effect on detoxification when it is carried out, and as mentioned, we are making a stronger obligation to notify and follow-up treatment once treatment has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e943	It is quite right, as the minister says, that we have a low lice limit in Norway – 0.5 lice per. the number of fish. The dilemma for industry is that if new methods are not found to address the problem of resistance, the industry will not be able to stay within the regulatory framework and the objective in question. It is, in my opinion, a big problem for the industry. That was a bit of the intention of my question. Would you like to put in an extra effort to find out about new treatments, new medicines, that can just deal with the resistance problem we are facing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e950	Yes, through both the legislation and our research appropriations, the Ministry will facilitate the development of new luxuries, but in a way we cannot adopt it. This requires good heads and demands that these funds actually develop. It is not the case today that none of the means we have is effective; the fact that salmon resistance has been detected in one plant does not mean that they do not work elsewhere. We are also concerned that the industry needs to switch between different laxatives, precisely because they are not to develop resistance, and that intensively coordinated treatment must be carried out to minimise lice survival, because that is when they develop the problems of resistance. Then we have another tool that lusa has not yet become resistant to, and it's lip fish. That's also something that we encourage the industry to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-18.ana.ud400e957	Then the ordinary question mark is over. Today's map has been processed successfully.
