ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e49	The representatives Rolf Rekvam, Saera Khan and Ola T. Loans, who have been licensed, have again taken their seat. The former deputy representative of the More and Romsdal counties, Jenny Klinge, has once again taken up their seats. Two permit applications are available: from Mr Heikki Holmås on Tuesday 26 May to attend the Assembly of NATO in Oslo of the representative of Mr Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on leave from 26 May until 28 May to attend the Conference of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Dublin These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the Telemark County, Sinde Fossum Beyer, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Gunn Olsen from 26 May to 28 May. The representatives of the goods, for Oslo Ingunn Gjerstad and for Telemark County Mari Helén Varøy, are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Ingunn Gjerstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e104	The President will propose the election of four presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Anders Anundsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Anders Anundsen are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e120	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e129	State Council Anniken Huitfeldt's statement on child protection in the Stortingen last Monday provided important information on the work of the Government in the field of child protection, while the Council pointed to challenges that require ever-increasing improvement and extra effort. This is a field in which all the parties in the Storting are concerned; it is about providing help, support and care for the most vulnerable and vulnerable among us. The Council of State started by reminding us of something important: the view of society and the public on child protection has changed radically in a few years. Not very long ago, we could still hear and read about adults — parents or superiors — who had experienced being deprived of care for children. The whole focus and thus all sympathy were often assigned to adults, while the situation of children and the justification of child protection for action were largely overlooked in silence. This has largely turned around. The public and the media are now much more focused on the child, while the protection of children has found a better balance between the obligation of professional secrecy and the public's need for information on the work and mission of child protection. This has meant that child protection is seen more and more as an aid and partner rather than a threat. A good sign that this has happened is the fact that more and more people are making contact with child protection when they cannot solve the problems seams, and that approx. 80 pst. by all those who benefit from child protection, it is provided in their own family or in the community. This is also a proper development; if families are helped as early as possible, they may prevent their children from suffering from care failure. At the same time, it is essential that those who are to provide this assistance have as good and as good a competence as possible, so that action is not taken too late if care needs to be taken. It's probably true, as the Council of State said, that in some cases the biological principle may have gained greater weight than what has been an explicit political goal. In its presentation, the Council of State underlined the importance of having appropriate measures for each child and family. That's why we need a knowledge-based child protection, and it's good that the government has started work on improving child protection education, and that there are many people who are applying for such education. Both research-based and experience-based knowledge are important, and the Ministry has developed a research and development strategy for child protection, in close dialogue with those working there. Most of the work in the area of child protection takes place in municipalities, and it is therefore important to strengthen municipal child protection and ensure that cooperation between the state and municipal child protection systems is as good as possible. The evaluation carried out by the 27 expert teams to assist municipalities points out that it is important to strengthen this cooperation, to ensure that it already works well in many regions, especially for the smaller municipalities. I am pleased that the Council of State focuses on how this cooperation can be even better, and that initiatives are being taken to develop binding cooperation agreements between municipalities, professional teams and regional management. The Ministry will also, in cooperation with the KS, set up a dispute resolution body to advise on cases where national and municipal child protection does not agree on solutions and financial responsibility. The Council of State stressed in its statement that the work of municipal child protection has increased and that more resources are needed. Better resource use can also be achieved through inter-municipal cooperation on child protection, and I noticed that the Council of State mentioned my home country, Troms, as an example of such successful cooperation. The Council of State also highlighted the commitment to development projects aimed at improving the ability of municipalities to work across departments. Not least, this is important when working with children and young people who have drug problems or psychiatric problems, or major behavioural problems. This government has increased the funding for child protection by DKK 1.4 billion. It's an increase of 42 pst. It has been necessary to ensure the child protection reform adopted in 2004, under the previous government, but which was not then adequately funded, as the Riksrevision pointed out in 2007. During this ageing period, various aspects of child protection have been discussed here in the Chamber: the need for post-protection, the use of coercion, the need for better supervision and the importance of individual levels of child protection. Several of these issues are addressed in a draft resolution which is now being discussed in the Storting. This means that before the summer holiday we have the opportunity to debate and deal with the proposition, which calls for important legislative changes that will strengthen both the state and municipal child protection, and interact with them, thus providing better care and follow-up for vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e155	My first experience with child protection was in 1988, in January, when, as a newly elected municipal government politician, I met as a child protection student – the old child protection students. For one who had grown up in a quiet middle-class home without the big problems, there was a bubble that cracked. I found out that there were actually children who did not have as good parents as what I had experienced both in my friends' company and in my own home. The minor faults and quarrels you had with your own parents became very small in relation to the challenges that were. Of course, it had been seen that there were some kids in high school and high school who had parents with some drug problems and stuff like that, but that there could be so many kids who actually had big challenges to deal with, big problems in the family situation, it was a strong experience for a young politician at the time. Of course, I have followed child protection both as a municipal politician and also after I entered the Stortinget in 1997, and especially after I joined the family committee in 2001. The party of progress has at that time, among other things. have been called upon to follow biological principles to a large extent, and to press for children to have contact with the biological source, the biological family, and not to be so quick to take care of, but rather to focus on help and cooperation with individual parents. We have also been very critical of the municipalities and places in the country where we have seen that child protection has been very eager, with rapid takeovers. The Progress Party has also been a defender of the private institutions, which we believe can deliver good quality to child protection. The party feels that there are still things to do in the area of child protection in Norway. We receive almost daily enquiries from parents, grandparents, etc., who are dissatisfied with the cooperation they have with child protection, and believe that they have been wronged. So in this area, I think there's still something to do, even if it's getting better. I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. We felt a little reluctant coming to Stortinget. We had a lot of questions up in the questionnaire, we had a lot of big issues in the media, and it took a little while, but when the council then came, it was a thorough explanation that was given. However, there were some areas where we did not share the views of the Council of State. One of the points, which I think was alarming, and it will probably also be commented on from the previous Bondevik parties, was that when it came to the huge exceedances that have been in child protection in the previous years, there was not exactly any in-depth analysis of it, except that it was because the Bondevik parties had budgeted incorrectly, and that now one hoped that development would be controlled. It's a little easy for me to buy, when you've actually been responsible in this area for almost four years. Otherwise, it is obvious that in the Progress Party and the Council of State we still perceive two different realities in terms of child protection. Our reality is that there are overdose deaths, there are unsupervised young people, young people who debut with baptism while they are under public care, there are killings on institutions, young people who run away from institutions without anyone looking for them, young people and children without adequate supervision of institutions and foster homes, municipal child protection workers who feel that they are not able to follow up children and young people because they have too poor working conditions, and children who are also staying home for too long after care decisions have been taken. That's at least the reality we in the Progress Party perceive. Of course, it's a reality characterized by the headlines that the media have made. Now, of course, it's possible that the media is lying in all of these cases, but I don't think that's the case. The reality of the Council of State, according to this statement, is that everything has been taken care of, everything is under control, and samples have been set up and investigations started, etc. Just recently, one of the trademarks of the Council of State is: one is very good at creating samples and starting investigations and assessments, but when it comes to action, it is a matter of concern. Just to take a little bit of a break: we recently had a debate here in Stortingen around the council's play that she wanted to go home to immigrant fathers and count how many diapers they changed, and how many vibrations they took. Now, I think it's a little constructive way to solve the huge problems that exist in terms of childcare in immigrant environments. I'm far more concerned about immigrants who claim to be a wife, who refuse to go out, etc., and who are involved in the sexual mutilation of their children than I am about how many diapers are actually replaced. In conclusion, my advice to the Council of State is: action is needed! We in the Progress Party do not feel that the Council of State has a hundred percent control in this area. Let's go now, for example. In a difficult time — the summer — as there are often more children living with problems of care and alcohol, and we do not have the places and measures necessary to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e172	The Child Protection Reform was introduced by the previous government. It was ambition that we should give children's protection a better life and an offer of higher quality tailored to the individual child's needs. Unfortunately, I think we must note that there has been no progress in any way in the direction we wanted. The reform has been on the verge of going into the ditch and is clearly on the wrong course to the right. Every day we see headlines about children who obviously don't get the care they're going to have. Many joints fail, and there are obvious shortcomings in system control and policy governance of child protection. The government has not shown the ability to solve the major migration challenges that lie here. Every time the Right has addressed various issues related to child protection, the State Council has, now the third in the row, apologised for being underfunded by the previous government. Then I remember that it is this government that has now been responsible for four years. A large majority in the Biggest would probably have stood behind strengthening the reform, and the Government has been sitting on the money bin of the times, and could actually do so. It's about the weakest among us. It should not be on the money, and in particular not from a government with a high profile of poverty and the most vulnerable. In all budgets, the right has been willing to invest significantly more in child protection than the Government has done in recent years. It's important for us to give more to those who need it the most, so we'd rather accept that we, for example. I have added 30 kroner to the kindergarten price. But it's kind of a priority government didn't want to be on it. First, I want to address the actual situation of child protection. There has been a dramatic increase in the number of emergency positions in recent years. In the first half of 2008, there was an increase of 31 p.m., of which half had to wait more than three months — up to one year — before permanent placement. There has been a dramatic increase in the waiting time for children to have a foster home, as preferably reinforced foster homes and family homes/youth homes, while seeing the availability of private child protection facilities. In 2006 received 96 pst. of children in foster homes within six weeks. Only the following year, this number had dropped to 21.6 pst. It lives approx. 7 000 children in foster homes. According to Norwegian media it has been revealed that one of three of these foster home children does not get the follow-up law requires. Last year, every ten children were in foster homes without a supervisor. There were 2,179 children who did not get the supervision required by the law, writes Bergen's Official Journal. Child protection shall include a plan of measures defining the child’s needs and describing how to help the child. In Norway today, 7 000 children are missing such a plan, according to newspaper headlines. This means that every fourth child in child protection does not receive a child protection offer in line with the requirements of the Child Protection Act. And even worse: 1000 of these children have been taken over by the state. It is not acceptable for such offences to be made by the State and not to have consequences. In 2008, 451 escapes were registered from the child-rescue institutions in the west region. Buffetat didn't know anything about this. There have been more killings and deaths in child-restraint services, and child-restraint workers are calling for clearer rules to get control of young people with major challenges. It is claimed at regular intervals that private child protection institutions are expensive and poor. Although, fortunately, the Council of State has moderated this rhetoric, real policy is nevertheless such that private commercial actors have the right to life only as long as they have a capacity problem in the state child protection. That's the message. This message from the current government meant that in 2008 the worker partyman Tor Anders Aune closed his child protection institution, Kletten Fjellgård AS, a measure that was launched after strong pressure from the county child protection authorities in 1995. The same message from the Council of State means that Aleri’s Youth Plan in the bidding rounds receives only a few places, while, because they have a specialised and competent offer, they later receive locations at a sky-high spot price. This message from the Council of State means that the Havnøy Foundation will soon have completed its entire operations in Tønsberg, while the queues are increasing and the head of child protection in the municipalities of Vestfold are shouting for several measures in the county. This policy, with a lack of equal treatment between public and private actors, contributes to the waste of public funds by the State. Good environments of competence are being liquidated and the queues are increasing. Full transparency and genuine non-discrimination of all actors providing services to state child protection will ensure the diversity of high-quality child protection services at the right price. But the government's policy is quite the opposite: less accessible information, phase-out of private child protection and a purchasing system that ranks actors by ownership, and not by what they actually deliver, and at what price. There is a basis for criticising the Government’s implementation of the child protection reform launched by the previous government. What characterises the various state councils that have held this post in the current government is that they have agreed to the criticism, but have not been able to do much about the basis for it. Quite exactly three years ago, Karita Bekkemelm presented a list of what she would do with child protection. One of the points was that she wanted to rust up municipal child protection. Municipal Child Protection is very important, and it is therefore essential that those working there have a high level of skills and opportunities for career development. Trondheim Municipality, the government’s own exhibition window, was given a huge boost in the field of child protection in the years 2004 to 2008. The municipality then participated in a trial scheme, initiated by Erna Solberg, and was responsible for both the first- and second-line service provision in the field of child protection. The results of the pilot scheme were that high levels of pediatric competence were maintained in the municipality, the diversity of the measures increased, the professional development was great, action was initiated at an early and last stage, but not least: a much greater focus was placed on child protection policy from a political point of view and priority was given to the budget. Despite this, the Government, against the will of workers-party-run Trondheim, chooses to wind up the scheme. So you've reset a success story. Is this the answer to ensuring better municipal child protection? In 2007, we held a debate on the use of coercive measures in child protection institutions following several serious incidents. At the hearing in the United Kingdom on the Right’s proposal for the revision of the Rights Regulation, it was a unisoned body of child protection workers and their organisations that called for clearer regulations and better legal bases in order to be able to deal with youth with drug-related, violence-related and criminal behaviour. The Council of State was very pleased with the legislation at the time, as it is now. At that time, the Council of State considered that the matter had been resolved with a guide in the use of the regulation. Still, three years after, and after completed notified guidance, we see a number of examples of intoxication and escape characterising parts of child protection, and there is still a call from employees in institutions with high levels of pressure on young people to take control. I ask myself, how long does it take to anchor the challenges of child protection in political leadership? How many deaths and serious examples of violence, sexual abuse and drug abuse do you need to refer to before entering and make changes as staff members of institutions, police, interest groups and despaired parents ask for? It is good that we have now reached the point where the number of children receiving child protection is increasing. Too many children and their families have had to cope with challenges that they do not master alone. Good prevention is important. This is a desired policy from both the Government and the opposition. Nevertheless, we see that more children with major challenges need a long-term offer outside the home. What worries us is that this seems to come as a surprise to the Council of State. Time and time again, we see overruns due to the lack of sufficient space, the purchase of expensive premises, the lack of suitable facilities, and the lack of timely action. With all the information now available to be able to keep reasonably good child protection statistics, I wonder about clearly failing needs analyses in the state child protection system. Nothing in the State Council statement last Monday suggested that something concrete has been put in place to ensure better resource management and longer-term planning of the development of offers in line with needs. There is a broad will in Stortinget to strengthen child protection. The right-hand side disagrees with the course that the government has gone through, but we want to back up where it needs to be. We can discuss ideology and ways to organise child protection between ourselves. But let's never forget that it's the kids who have to come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e212	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and good account of the situation in the field of child protection. It is absolutely necessary that we have an increased focus on the provision of our most vulnerable children and young people, because we know that if we do not apply the measures they are entitled to, the problems only grow. This is important that we have a focus on, both locally and centrally. It is also important that the measures we adopt are qualitatively good and targeted. Research in the field of child protection is therefore very important. In my article, I want to focus on municipal child protection, because I think it's where the situation is now most serious. Municipal Child Protection must work if children and young people are to receive proper assistance in a timely manner. During the last year, there have been many reports in the press about the state of child protection. Without commenting on single requests, these show that the situation in child protection is challenging, especially in municipal child protection. The same is true of the report presented by the State Health Authority. The report ‘Exposed children and young people — the need for better cooperation’ reveals that a large proportion of Norwegian municipalities, 103 out of 114, have shortcomings in their management of vulnerable children. Lack of cooperation between child protection, Nav and health services means that children with problems are getting help too late, getting too little help or not having the help they need at all. This is very serious. Municipalities and municipal politicians must have a greater focus on child protection and what they can do to solve these problems. This is the responsibility of the municipalities. It is about system and cooperation, but of course also about the resource situation and the priorities of municipalities. The figures show that there has been a strong increase in cases for municipal child protection in recent years. The increase in messages was 55 pst. between 1996 and 2006, while the increase in survey cases was 41 pst. during the same period. The number of measures has also increased steadily. The increase from 1996 to 2006 was 43 p.m. Notifications, studies and actions for children and young people are the main tasks of the municipal child protection service. Children’s protection services in municipalities are therefore under heavy pressure. They receive more and more messages, and there are more and more children taking action. At the same time, the proportion of employees has not increased accordingly. A rise in messages per year in 2007 to 1997 levels The need for annual work is approx. 740 new annual works in the municipalities. This shows that municipal child protection does not have the resources to follow up the large number of issues that are now being reported. It also shows surveys by various statesmen around the country. SV believes it is unacceptable that the municipalities are unable to help the children who need and have the right to help. Children are entitled to timely assistance both under Norwegian law and not least under the Children’s Convention. There can be no resources or problems of coordination between different bodies when a child needs help, whether the child has been subjected to abuse, has drug problems, or there are other factors that suggest that they need close and rapid follow-up. Priority must be given to children who are struggling with social and mental problems. Increased bet on child protection must be part of the answer. This is particularly relevant as a result of the increased social problems that are now emerging in the wake of the increased unemployment. In order to make sure that children get the help they need without having to wait, municipal child protection needs to be strengthened, and I am very pleased with the signals that the Council of State gives here in relation to municipal child protection. As I said, municipal child protection needs up to 1000 new jobs to meet the increase in notifications, surveys and interventions. There are also major challenges in child protection related to cooperation across administrative boundaries and between service levels. Exposured children and young people need an assistive device that cooperates and coordinates themselves. Good childhood means a lot to how we get it later in life. Children grow up with very different living conditions and face different challenges along the way. SV believes that all children have the right to a good start in life, regardless of their starting point. Therefore, children in need of help need timely help.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e229	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation in which she addresses many of the key challenges for child protection. Thousands of children use their powers every day to protect themselves from violence and abuse and care failure in their own homes. Many of these children do not need protection until they have suffered significant damage, injuries that often last their lives. What we have to do is listen to the kids – ask them how they feel and how they want it. There are so many children who have said to me: we want to be heard, we have a meaning, we have a point of view. And many people experience that they are being heard, but many also feel that they are being ignored. It's important to take seriously. In Norway today, more than 8 000 children live in different types of foster homes. Nursing home is a better expression for foster homes. In its statement, the Council of State said that ‘those who organise foster homes have been concerned about setting up a separate pension scheme and improving social rights for foster parents’. It is also the Christian People's Party very concerned. The Council of State further stated that ‘the Government will make a proposal on a separate pension scheme for state families and shelters’. It's nice and a step in the right direction. But the state foster homes only make up between 15 and 20 pst. of all foster homes. Over 80 pst. by foster parents in Norway are community foster homes, where one in four receive reinforcements in one way or another for a short or longer time. There are currently considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities in how foster parents have to fight to get guidance and extra coverage for expenses in addition to the usual. This may affect cooperation. And what have the municipal foster parents got from improvements other than PRIDE courses? The foster parents themselves say that there have been no other improvements. There has to be a discussion about what we want with foster care in Norway. The status must be up to being an unborn child and a foster parent. foster parents and foster children are not given sufficient priority. There is a small proportion of the population who are foster parents. These constitute the main measure of Norwegian child protection. Many children in institutions live in fear that their homes will go bankrupt, they will miss more adults around in institutions, or maybe they will be in line for a foster home. The Christian People’s Party is concerned about whether the children get the most adapted offer, or whether economic priorities govern what the children receive. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has doubled the term of the contract for private child protection measures. Governments report that from the current year on, Buffetat will purchase several places from NPISHs. That's good, because we need a variety of offers to children with different needs for follow-up. But many who run child protection institutions have warned of much more difficult conditions under this government than under the previous one. Here I hope the Government will listen and adjust the course – listen to those who work and listen to children to make a good offer. The focus has been on children and young people with drug problems living in institutions. Here's the big challenge, and we have to take care of it here too. It is important that those working get the tools needed to have good control in the institutions to capture children and young people with drug problems. The Council of State referred in its presentation to the proposal for post-closure protection under consideration in the Grand Duchy. The proposal imposes an obligation on child protection services to justify why young people who have benefited from child protection should no longer receive assistance after the age of 18. This is a step in the right direction, but the Christian People's Party wants to legislate a right to post-protection. Eight out of ten children receiving child protection are assisted by municipal child protection in the local environment. It places great demands on the protection of children in the municipalities and demands that municipal politicians give priority to the protection of children. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State will have a dialogue with the KS on how to ensure the quality of municipal child protection, inter alia. by an increase in the number of posts. In addition to scarce municipal frameworks, we know that many child-restraint workers are in despair when they propose relief measures that parents refuse to accept. Then there is little they can do, except to wait until the matter becomes so serious that the child protection can take care of the child by coercion. I question whether the parents' right to refuse assistance here undermines the child's best interests. We must always bear in mind that taking into account the child's interests should outweigh the consideration of parents, if these conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e255	Today I envy those who have a little longer speaking time. I agree that the Council of State had a thorough review of child protection, but I have to say that there are two shortcomings in it. One is that you have not taken into account the great seriousness of the fact that children actually die under the care of child protection. There is also a little lack of vision about what you want for child protection to be in the future. I have received a lot of enquiries from the Council of State, especially from those who work in the field of child protection, for whom I am very grateful, and who have been informative about the situation. I'm glad. Obviously, there are a lot of people doing a very good job. A lot of good models are being developed in the field of child protection in the way of working. But we have many challenges in the future too. The first is that we need a lot more time to prevent it. Too little time is spent on child protection prevention. It's an area where we have to say that we've actually failed a little bit. Because if it had worked well, the last part of the child protection job would have been much less. I think we have to look at the entire meeting with the public, from health centres to inform about what child protection can help families, to child protection contacts – not only in schools, but also in kindergartens. I am seriously concerned that there will be so few alarm messages from kindergartens. I think it has something to do with the attitude of kindergartens, that it is the adults who are customers and not the children who are customers. Much more effort is required in relation to interaction between public authorities and from municipality to municipality. There are a lot of kids who not only end up as a folder child, but who end up as a folder child because they've moved to other municipalities, where it takes a long time to catch them again. I think it's about the basic trust in the anxiety message that you don't have the resources to follow them up. As some of the child protection employees told me, when four case handlers in a violent team have approximately 150 cases to follow up, that is, every case handler on average has 37-38 cases of violence that they will follow up. We need to understand the seriousness of children being subjected to coercive measures. It's like a child protection employee writes to me: ‘It is NOT good care to allow young people to avoid care and treatment.’ When young people, as it says, ‘can continue their drug abuse and possibly take overdoses even if they are placed under public pressure’, there is a major flaw in our whole system. It's not supposed to work. The government's crusades against the private have been a crusade where it's not about quality, but actually about the fight against the private. According to the report, one of the child protection employees has asked a very good question, which I would like to ask the Council of State: ‘If an institution does not have an extension of the agreement, the Council of State considers that the children who have the largest decision should be taken at the institution if they become children again. [[...]] Can children remain in an institution if the institution does not have an extension of an agreement Child under care are the most vulnerable children and have the right to a planned and safe growth.» [[there must be a reason not to extend them?]] I think that is a good question, which I would like the Council of State to answer. Now I only have one minute left. Then I'll talk about my two heart issues that I really think it should be done something about. The Council of State has lifted a little bit of post-protection. But I believe that post-protection should have been lifted even more and would have been made a youth's right. As many people say in their enquiries to me, it's important that after protection is actually about child protection and not about social services, as it gets very often. The second is supervision. Supervision shall be frequent, unannounced and shall be prudent. I believe one of the major weaknesses in our child protection today is that we are unable to carry out supervision properly. So there are a lot of people who have taken up with me the use of family councils, and that family councils are a good way of working, which we should have worked with more. There are a lot of people who have mentioned to me that foster families should not only be protected socially, as many have mentioned here, but that they should also be guaranteed professionally and get professionally good follow-up at their job. In the last five seconds, I'm going to use it to say that even single minor asylum seekers are children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e293	I believe there are major challenges in child protection. If you really want to meet those kids and young people who have big problems in our society, you'll find many of them in child protection. So I don't want to paint the situation in any way. But child protection has improved since the reform of Laila Davøy. I notice that there are different views in the Chamber about the child protection reform among the parties that put together in government during the previous period. After the child protection reform, more people have been helped. Several have been supervised in foster homes. Recently, the number of emergency positions has decreased. The waiting time in the counties has fallen. We've got longer contract periods for private institutions. A larger proportion of people get help at home, and we help more children. We use more family councils, and we have been committed to increasing the training of foster parents through, among other things. The PRIDE programme. So, yes, there are major challenges, but it's getting better. I also notice that the Progress Party has a somewhat different view of child protection now than 10-15 years ago. At that time, the Advance Party often went into the mouth of the biological parents. I would like to stress that the interests and attitudes of biological parents, and the ability of child protection to involve them, are crucial for the children to have good follow-up. The children don't feel well if they know that the biological parents don't get proper follow-up. But in those cases where there are differences of interest between what is best for parents and the best for the child, it is the child's best that is crucial. I am pleased to note that the Progress Party has a different view of these questions than they had some years ago. There is evidence that we have increased confidence in child protection. Studies also show that people have increased confidence in child protection, and not least the biological parents are increasingly seeking contact with child protection. Then it is said that there are two different realities – about baptism, killing, escape, unsupervised youths. Olemic Thommess also had a number of claims in his post. Some of them are from the newspapers. Some of them are right, some of them don't lead to correctness. To correct one claim immediately: The cliff Mountain Farm lives in the best of luck. There's a child. If the other statements have the same level of fact, I'm a little worried about where the Right picks up its reality description of the state child protection. We have also stressed a number of legislative changes to ensure that children are given an individual level, to ensure that when their children are returned to biological parents, there should be better legal certainty, and we have strengthened the law in the area of post-closure. In my opinion, this is action. The Progress Party is still talking about little action, but there are few action options that are presented in concrete terms in the proposals of the Progress Party, except for the usual one, which also comes from the Right: privatisation. Then it was about the minority children. I have been particularly concerned with their situation in the field of child protection, because I believe that we have largely discriminated against children with a minority background, in the sense that we have taken too easy on care failure in these environments. Many children with a migrant background have reported or told them that they have been exposed to, among other things. physical violence, but this has not been sufficiently taken seriously. So I think acting and informing about multicultural child protection are important, because we need child protection that is as caring and shows equal responsibility to minority children as to other children. So it's a little hard for me to see what reinforcements of the state child protection Right wants. Very well known, the Right has proposed a reduction in national child protection and an increase in private child protection. It is an ideological form of budgetary policy and does not in any way mean strengthening child protection. As far as the right rule is concerned, I would say that I am not satisfied with the right rule as it is today. But I'm busy retrieving the experiences of those who work with the daily rating code. And we must not forget that the law of rights has a very important history. We're talking about a child-restraint that has a history that has been quite difficult for many child-restraints. Therefore, children’s protection has been granted increased rights recently. But I think we have to look at the rule of rights in a new light, not least because of the electronic development. When you have a mobile phone, there is a completely different kind of contact with the world outside of what we had before, and many people in child protection have told – and I want to involve them in the work – that it is difficult to properly care for the rights we have today. So I'm not satisfied with it as it is, as it is said. Then I would like to say to the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad that with regard to the private institutions, the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate recently met with them. They are satisfied with the new bidding round and believe that it has become considerably more professional than it has been in the past. Not all institutions are satisfied, especially those that have obtained a new framework agreement, but even more so, there is great satisfaction in the fact that there is a more professional bidding round than we have had in the past. So I want to say that when it comes to moving from those institutions that have not extended the framework agreement, it used to be that the county councils bought single places, but now we have a framework agreement. And we've extended the period for a public framework agreement, from two years to four years. This does not mean that the children of the institution that does not have a framework agreement must move immediately. There was a lot of discussion also in this room when there were three child-rescue institutions that were not allowed to extend the framework agreement at Christmas time. In many of these institutions, the operation today is similar to that of December 2008, because consideration for the children is the overall one. In concluding new framework agreements, emphasis is placed on quality, but emphasis is also placed on the fact that there are established professional environments and that it is important to maintain them. For example, the operation at the Garnes Youth Centre in 2009 is similar to that in December 2008, even if it did not extend the framework agreement. I would like to end by saying about the visions for Norwegian Child Protection: I share many of the views of the representative Skei Grandes for Norwegian Child Protection. In this room there have been many discussions about the Nav reform. That adults had to enter many doors if they were out of work was the basis for the Nav reform. We're not going to have a 'Barne-Nav', but it's paradoxical that the children who need it the most have to enter many doors — health sisters, teachers, child protection, pedagogical-psychological services, child and youth psychiatry. They have to tell their difficult story over and over again to different professionals, who individually certainly do a good job, but are not always so good at cooperating. Many of the most difficult children have large directories, with various expert judgements from different, competent professionals, who individually do a good job for children and young people. But the biggest challenge is to coordinate the help we have. Many municipalities have gone ahead and done this job, collected it under one roof. In the municipality of Nes in Akershus, the Children’s Protection Office is across from the Health Sister Office, and if those who notice that there is a mother or a father who has some challenges, they say: Let’s take a walk and have a talk with child protection! It is much easier than in cases where child protection is surrounded by professional secrecy far inside a hall corridor. The important thing is to get in earlier. Many of the kids who are the most struggling, after they've grown up, say that they should have reported a lot before. So getting in early, getting more trust in child protection from those who work with children and young people to daily, is the most important vision for Norwegian child protection. The children who don't have it in our society have got too little and too late child protection than too much child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e323	Just to clarify: it is still the case that the Progress Party wants the best management of biological bonds and the best cooperation in this area. My question goes on this with rushes, exorcism, escape, etc. both in the case of institutions and in the case of foetal family solutions. There are obviously many of the employees in these businesses who feel that they do not have the necessary tools in terms of rules and the job situation to discharge their responsibilities. My question to the Council of State is: what will she do to improve the ability of the employees in these contexts to do their job, and what will she do with the rule of rights that was mentioned in her own article?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e330	I would say that many of the help measures we have been implementing in the field of child protection lately are about family help. A lot of the child protection reform is just about it. If a 14-year-old has started to develop behavioural problems, it may in many cases be much better to get help at home than to take the child to an institution. We have implemented a number of measures to improve the control of drug problems in the institutions. It's about schooling. That is why we want to intensify the work of schooling for those who work in the field of child protection. We have also asked the county council to take extra account of this when reviewing the supervisory review. When it comes to the rating code, I'm not done with that work. I have met many of the people who have been in the Norwegian media, who have told me how the rule of rights does not always work for them. We also know that statesmen practice this right rule differently. I am not satisfied with the rule of rights as it is today, and as it is practised. There have been many critical voices, and we will take this criticism into account in the work on a new rule of rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e339	State councils may remember that the Right some time ago proposed to create a digital portal that would describe all child protection offers. We did that because we believe transparency is important – there are many different offers, and it is important to have a good overview. This is about finding the best offers when looking for places in the transition, perhaps primarily from the municipal level to the state level. Secondly, we believe that transparency is important because it seems stimulating. It strengthens diversity. You see where there might be holes in the system. And you also get the possibility of public access from parents – and the press, for that matter. It'll be sharper on this whole system. Now this proposal was defeated. My question to the Council of State is: what will she do to ensure that the public has access to information and transparency in the systems of child protection as easily as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e346	We have implemented the ‘Open Child Protection’ project. This has led to the fact that many child-restraint workers have gone out with information that they said before was information related to confidentiality. We have seen that when child-restraint workers have become more open, it has also strengthened confidence in child-restraint. There has not been a non-comment child protection to the extent that it has been in recent years. I believe that has led to a positive development. With regard to various types of relief measures, I would say that the etat website is very good and provides very good information on the varied offer that can be given within the state child protection system today. But I think we need a more systematic presentation of different forms of community assistance, because there is a great variation in the offer here, and the offer is not always that knowledge-based. I want to focus on presenting better knowledge to municipalities about the municipal relief measures that can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e353	The representative May Hansen says so strikingly in a post in Moss News on March 30: ‘Children are not getting the help they need in the richest country in the world.’ The representative writes the following: ‘In order to ensure that children receive the assistance they need without having to wait, municipal child protection needs to be strengthened. In order to achieve such a strengthening, a billion dollars must be put on the State budget, which must be earmarked for municipal child protection, inter alia, to increase the number of child-restraint workers by up to 1000 new posts.» I wonder if we can expect such a proposal for next year's state budget, based on what a family-political spokesman in SV has launched in Moss Avis. I assume that this is something the government party is gathering behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e363	I share the representative's concern for municipal child protection. Among other things, the County of Oslo has carried out a study of very many cases that show that in many of these cases measures should have gone further. So in many municipalities, municipal child protection wears out. That's why this has been given a very thorough review in the municipal proposition. In fact, child protection has never received a similar reference to what it has received in this proposition. As far as the budget for the autumn is concerned, we would like to have a dialogue with the KS towards strengthening municipal child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e370	I'm not going to be so bad at confronting the State Council with SV statements. I thought I was just going to confront her with questions that child protection officers in Oslo have actually asked, and that I really don't think the council answered in the post. She'll have another chance. When children are left in institutions that do not have an operating agreement – and that is a reason why they do not have an operating agreement; the Council of State stated in its reply that there is a quality that is the main reason for it – can you be aware of it, because you leave children behind in institutions that you think are not good enough to have an operating agreement? I have a great understanding of the long-termity of the plans for a child. But here it must be clear that something in the politics of the Council of State is breaking up. Is the child and quality around the child important, is it the long-termity that is important, or is it able to reach an operational agreement, according to the department's plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e377	With regard to the operation of the tendering rules in Oslo, it is part of the protection of children of the Municipality of Oslo. They also have responsibility for the second line service, as the representative is familiar with, so that they have a different system than the one we have in the state child protection. In Oslo, competitions include: commercial and non-profit institutions, on a level playing field. We have a slightly different model in the state child protection. So the representative gets to move on to the Progress Party and the Right in Oslo to get details about how child protection employees in Oslo experience this and the bidding rounds there. Individual assessments shall be made as to how this works in the State child protection system. If an institution is of very poor quality, the child should be moved. If the offer is sound and it is best for the child to stay, the child should be accommodated. But there's no ideological answer here. Individual assessments shall be made for the benefit of the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e384	I expect that the Council of State has got vitamin for child protection, from caregivers to caregivers, where they give wise advice to politicians. For those who are foster parents, one of the challenges is getting good follow-up. I understand very well that many foster parents who do a great job are frustrated when they have to negotiate with each municipality in order to cover expenses for professional follow-up. Now the Council of State has taken over the professional economic rights of state foster parents, but it only applies to 15-20 pst. The rest of the foster parents – the locals – have not received anything. One has said it should be done, it should be discussed, and one should have conversations with KS here and there. Now we want concrete action, and these foster parents are impatient. I expect the Council of State to deliver something concrete – not just that one should consider, and that one should have conversations. We must have concrete promises to foster parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e391	As the representative of Molvær Grimstad is familiar with, I cannot oblige the KS to implement an agreement. I, as the Council of State before me – and as the Councils of the Christian People's Party also had to – must do so in cooperation and conversation and through negotiations with the KS. Of course, we want local foster homes to have better rights. We've gone in front of the state foster parents now. So we want better rights for the municipal foster parents, but we do – whether the representative likes it or not – in cooperation with the KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e398	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e402	I think it's great that we have a government council that has such a strong and burning heart and commitment to the children who have the most difficult. I think this debate has been very good up until now. It's very nice that the Storting gets the opportunity to take a little more general political debates at regular intervals. Not least in a field such as child protection, which is about the most difficult children, it is important that we have the opportunity to discuss it on a large and broad scale. At the same time, this debate has been quite predictable, I think, because both the Right and the Left are immediately coming across the disc over and over again. They're trying to create a scare picture that this government is against private child protection institutions. It is quite strange that they are trying to create such a scare image, when we know that approx. Half of the children are actually in private childcare facilities, and that we are also going to be in that situation in the future. I think it's better to ask the question: is the Right and the Left so fanatical about the private ownership of child protection institutions that they consider it more important than providing a qualitatively good offer to the children and focusing on the children? The government's attitude has always been, when assessing child protection institutions, to look at quality, and then you have to look at what's best for the children and make decisions based on it. This is also the reason why it has been assessed that there should be a transition from institutions to more use of foster homes, not because one is so extreme against private child protection institutions, but because one is committed to offering the best for children. We are also concerned about diversity, quality and the need to have the best offer for children at all times, on an individual basis. Then I want to focus on a child group that has not been so focused on in this debate, because there is a bit of a cross-border focus between the justice sector and the child protection sector. It is that there are at all times between five and ten children in Norwegian prisons. So they sit with hard-boiled criminals and are subjected to negative influence. Instead of helping these children to become more law-abiding, detention helps them to get even further involved in a criminal career. The situation of children in prison today is unacceptable and contrary to the Children’s Convention. The physical framework in prisons is not at all organized for children. The follow-up they receive is deficient, and most prisons lack complete pediatric competence. For many years this group of children has been a throwball in the system. Most people agree that prison is not a good criminal reaction to children, but at the same time child protection believes that these children are not their responsibility. In the meantime, then, these children are under critical conditions in prison. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has taken an initiative to find alternative and better solutions for these children, through the establishment of reinforced transitional housing and new arrangements. These are units for children who have committed so serious crime that they must be in closed institutions. These units contain both pediatric and prison competences. At the same time, I am concerned that these units must only be used for those children who have committed so serious crime that society must be protected from them. For other children who have committed criminal acts, work must be done to find alternative forms of punishment, and the responses given must be individually arranged for each child. Children who have committed serious crimes usually have a long scroll from child protection. These have often been subjected to abuse and care failure from being very small. Society must be protected against children at risk to others. It's the responsibility of criminal law. At the same time, this child needs care and help. That's what child protection is all about. The follow-up of children who commit serious crimes therefore requires close cooperation between the criminal services and the various relief services. I therefore believe that child protection needs to be more committed and that mental health protection needs to be more on the ground. This applies to the weakest children. We have an obligation to give them a good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e421	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e424	Some comments at the end of the debate here: when it comes to the supply problem, I don't think we're getting into the goal in that way that we're getting involved with the Council of State. I don't think I'm going to spend time repeating the Christian People's Party's position there, it's well known from before. We hope for the longest time that the Government will adjust the course significantly more than they have done, but I left it behind and refer to previous articles about it. When it comes to the funding of child protection and the state reform to which it has been referred – with Laila Davøy’s important efforts in this field – it was a major reform, and one did not know what it would cost. When such a major reform is to take place, progress has to be made, and every year more money has been put into the reform of child protection. At the same time, the Council of State said that child protection laws were to be followed. We saw that spending needs have grown rapidly, and this government has also experienced and followed up with more resources, but we see that there is still a need for more funding for child protection. When it comes to foster parents, I want to associate some more comments with it. Being a foster parent is the most important measure within child protection, we know that the job they do is incredibly important. Then it is also important that they feel that society values the work they do. When one learns that each individual has to fight with the municipality about how to follow it up, whether to get a visitation home, and whether to feel it has been arranged, when one knows that the option for the state may be an institution position that costs several thousand more, it is actually important to raise the status by being foster parents and show that they are valued. Then the economic and social rights given to them are important. So the state council says she can't do anything but talk to KS. I don't agree with that, because if the state wants to raise this, it's also going to give central regulations, it's going to give leadership as a state and say we're going to spend a greater amount of money on this, because it's actually the most important child protection measure we have. One can sit down with the organisations involved and discuss and listen to those who are foster parents, because they are invaluable in this work. That's why I think the Council of State has the full potential to make more concrete in this area. I sincerely hope that it will use that opportunity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e437	Just a comment to the representative Gjul on the issue of private and public actors. It's a little strange to listen to the representative Gjul when she now gives the impression that the government is almost at the heart of a kind of non-discrimination between private and public actors, and that it seems that private actors are so great. Then I just have to show that state councils from this government have previously had as expressed policy that they want to phase out the private actors. So over the course of this four-year period, this has been moderated a lot, and now you're talking about the difference between ideal and commercial actors, so now the ideal actors have got a little bit more into the heat -- whatever the ideals are. It has something to do with who you're owned by. Then we have also had a practice in the state child protection, where we have clearly expressed the policy that we should first use the state's offers, and then you could see what might have happened to the private ones. The continuous, main line, throughout this period has been a clear signal that you want to step down, or – as you have expressed it – the phase out of your private offerings. When the Right has raised this issue quite a lot here in the Chamber, it's not because we want a unilaterally privatized child protection, but because we think that the private actors represent an important diversity. We're not so concerned about who owns the different institutions, we're more concerned with what they actually deliver. And we're also concerned with the innovation and creativity these institutions have contributed in many ways. Very often, these private actors are people who have worked in public child protection and who would like to realise ideas or educational methods and contribute to it. So we want diversity and we think it's important to keep the dynamics up in child protection, and that it's going to be crucial for what quality we're going to have. This also applies in research, where we believe that the Government is too narrow in relation to the research environments involved. We have also seen that while the purchases have made quite a large number of private operators, considerable resources have also been used to build up public offers, for example. through the MultifunC institutions. So the course has been quite clear: you want to build up the public and build down the private – there can be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e450	I would like to stress what someone has been about, that kindergartens report little to child protection. Now I believe that the situation in municipal child protection – at least that’s what I often hear from kindergartens – is so that the case handlers have a lot to do, and investigations are not done. We also know that from the statesmen. With the focus on child protection, it is a pleasure and important thing to see the development that we have had and that I made in my post, namely an increase in the number of messages and more children on action. It's an increase all the time. Therefore, I believe that this debate is so important – having a focus on child protection both locally and centrally is extremely important if we are to get further. Everyone has now had national meetings, and many of us have adopted an opinion from the Children's Rights Group that says that we need more competence in education for those who are going to work with children, to see and understand what signals these children send out. It's important for people who work in kindergarten, it's important for people who work at school, at the health centre -- all these professionals who actually learn little about this in their education. Then I will support the representative, Gjul, in saying that children should not be in prison. I think it's very important that it gets focused on. I come from a state – Eastfold – where we have had more things about children in prison, and I have said that this is unacceptable. I am very pleased with the job that the Council of State is now doing in these areas. It's absolutely necessary that children get the right help at the right time, if we're going to help them in the future, because it's actually that if you don't go in and give help at the right time, this is so serious that it can also be fatal. There are actually quite a few who die of overdose, of intoxication and other things. That is why I believe – I also wrote in the article on which the representative Molvær Grimstad was in – that the blue light should be on when children have problems – just as when the ambulance comes and picks me up if I have a heart attack. It's very important. We had children's protection subjects before. Then we had a local focus on child protection, from local politicians. I don't think we should go back to it, but we have to get municipal politicians to understand and show commitment to this very important job. Our most vulnerable kids need to be put in focus in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e463	I record that the representative Molvær Grimstad claims that she does not agree with me in terms of tendering policy, and that she will not be. I think the representative has much bigger problems in agreeing with the Left and Right on these issues. There is far greater distance from the former government colleagues than is now the case. We've never gone as far as to cooperate with non-profit organisations as we do now. So Olemic Thommessen said that I was almost in favour of non-discrimination between public and private institutions. Then the representative has not followed very closely, because I used the term non-discrimination when I characterised and explained how child protection works in Oslo. It's not like that in the state, and I have the same policy as my predecessors in this area. I've never said that we should phase out the private institutions. They make up half of the institutions in today's child protection. On the contrary, I believe that today's government has a very pragmatic view of this. We want to use the capacity of the state apparatus first. Then we will use ideal and then commercial actors. I don't know if the representative noticed what I said about research environments in my presentation. But I want an open discussion about several types of methods that we use in child protection. So I would say that the directorate's employees have done a great job ensuring the quality of the institutions in the last few years. There is a much more differentiated offer, for children who need an institution place, do not just need a bed, they also need a treatment offer. That's why I'm glad we've been able to develop the quality of institutions lately. So I've noticed what May-Helen Molvær Grimstad says about the municipal foster homes. I also see the need for better rights for the municipal foster homes, and I am going to go further in a dialogue with the KS on this. What we've done by the state is better follow-up and guidance. There's been a lot of pressure in the last few years. I know that the Forsterhämsföreningen is more satisfied with the offer they have now received than they have received in the past. So the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen mentioned his experience with the municipal children's councils. I will not, as the representative of May Hansen, return to the fact that elected representatives will sit and take the kind of professional judgement. There are difficult ethical dilemmas, and it requires a high level of professional competence. But what was the case in the past was that municipal politicians knew more about the individual's history. They had the stories of their child-restraints under the skin. I think that's something we've lost there, so I want more contact between municipal politicians and those working in local child protection, to find out about another side of the reality of children in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e478	I also want to take the opportunity to make some comments. The left very much agrees that children should not be in prison, and values all measures to avoid it. I also think it is important when children are under the care of child protection that they are under the same authority as anyone would have expected of the same children. I believe that child protection has the right to remove a mobile phone or say that the child cannot be on Facebook, as parents can do. That authority shall enjoy the protection of children, in the same way as parents. Then I very much agree that we must start giving more credit to foster parents for the job they do, so that they do not feel that they must fight against municipalities and against systems. There I fully agree with what Molvær Grimstad says. But I also think that we're going to be more competent to use foster parents in after-care. With regard to the children who have been with foster parents, who move into the post-preservation period, I believe that foster parents may be the best form of post-preservation. It's about the period between 18 and 24 years, which is the period when you may need to come home and have a sofa to lie and cry on when your girlfriend has turned up, to come home with a big, dirty clothes, to come home to rob the refrigerator, or to come home to argue with someone about what further education you should actually take – which means that you can finally be so damned that you actually take that education your parents don't think you can do, but you're sure to show them that you can do it. There, I think foster parents have a very important role to play, including in post- protection. I think they can do a very good job on the post-protection side, so that, as many of the child-rescue workers have told me, you don't get a social office function, but you actually get a child-rescue approach on the post-protection. I also believe – I see that the Central Party has chosen not to participate in this debate – that the small child protection and small municipalities are a major challenge in the future. For this reason, the Left has adopted a local reform in its Grand Election Programme to improve the quality of the public services provided. I think it's hard in very many small municipalities with very small child protection to keep the professional level, it's hard to go into all kinds of families. As I mentioned in the previous child protection debate we had here, I think in small municipalities with small child protection maybe the hardest way to get into high-status families. The family that may often be in the social office is easy for child protection to intervene in, but in high-level families in small municipalities with small child protection, I think children suffer a lot of congestion because you don't have enough weight to feel that you can walk into them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e487	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e490	I'll stay within the minute. I just want to thank the Council of State for a fine clarification. So it's not about non-discrimination, but it's still about a reasoning based on an assessment of institutions, based on ownership. That means ownership is more important than quality, but it also means that ideology is more important than what's best for the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e497	As the representative Olemic Thommess is familiar with, it's a priority of what kind of institutions we use. We're filling in the capacity of state child protection first. Keeping state institutional facilities unused is not in line with the objective of providing the best for the child. Free capacity is not good use of resources, for which the right is traditionally seen. Secondly, we prioritise ideal actors, and then commercial – simply because we want the money in child protection to go to the children. We have seen some private actors take out large profits. Fortunately, it's reduced. When we spend money on national child protection, we want the money to go to the children. That is a purely pragmatic attitude. Here it is the Right who is ideological and wants privatisation for the sake of privatisation. We have also seen in Oslo – with the system we have there – that when choosing different types of institutions, the choice of quality in the state child protection system is crucial when purchasing institutional places. Then I'd like to tell the representative Skei Grande that that's where you have the strictest behavior paragraphs you have in today's rights regulation to go in and seize and control the children to a great extent. It is not certain that today's rights regulation is adapted to modern electronic activities, and that is why we should ensure that this is done. Finally: Small child protection – small municipalities. In Troms – on which the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen was in – there is a child protection employee who has written a book called Kommuneheks on a sleek line. It tells about the difficult job it can be for many child-restraint workers in small municipalities to get into some of the most difficult conflicts in our society. I think we have something to learn from this. I believe in more intermunicipal cooperation. I think conditions can get too small many times – it's too difficult. Many of those who do an important job in municipal child protection send us into some of the most difficult conflicts in society. That is why I am pleased that child protection has increased trust in the last few years. The major challenge in the time to come is to strengthen municipal child protection, so that child protection can come in earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e506	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3134]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e522	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e529	The first speaker is Trond Helleland, who speaks on behalf of the case-speaker Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e532	It is quite easy to speak on behalf of a case rapporteur when there is a unanimous vote. This is, of course, an EU directive aimed at harmonising the various national systems for the certification of drivers, in order to facilitate the cross-border use of drivers. The Committee is in favour of the Directive, not least because it means that it will be easier for Norway to obtain qualified drivers. We saw last year that the NSB and the railway were having trouble getting qualified personnel. By using this EU Directive in a positive way, it will be easier to provide competent cross-border personnel. The Committee also points out that one will achieve better interoperability of the single European rail transport market while maintaining a high level of railway safety. When a person receives this certification scheme, it is important that it is followed up. In Norway, the main responsibility for supervising drivers and establishing national criteria for examiners lies with the Railway Authority. This directive also requires some legislative changes, and we will come back to that in the context of Ot.prp. No 63 to be dealt with later today. The Foreign Affairs Committee has examined the matter and had no comments on the consideration of the Transport Committee. So with that, we recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e552	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3134]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e568	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e577	The traffic problems on the North Jär are not solved by completing this North Jären package, but we get a couple of collective fields, we get a bet on walking and cycling paths, and we get some crossroads and a bridge – so we're going to get something. However, in Russia the traffic will continue to be held still, and greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in the case of cars will still be over 60 pst. of the total. So there's a need for a much bigger grip than what's going on today. The NHO and the truck owners want a solution that SV has proposed many times, and that works in Stockholm, namely a cow pricing and a rush-time charge in the area. This will lead to a reduction in passenger car traffic, which will lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and this will lead to more money from business. Not least the latter, it is important to take into account when one sees that some parties are opposed to such measures – some parties who actually claim to be a party to business, but who are therefore in favour of what the business community wants to do in matters related to transport. In 1993, SV proposed an urban runway solution for the North-Jear. The resistance to it was great at first, but now in this new hundredth year is pretty much all of a few that we need a city track on the North-Jear. The government stimulated this, especially in the state budget, by going in with $6 million. kr to planning agents for speeding up the urban road. However, we note that one has not been able to conclude locally on what SV has concluded for more than 15 years, on a city track, and that one now discusses in the county council and in the municipalities around one should have a total solution in terms of transport and land planning for the future on the North-Jear. It's good, but it's got a lot of time. We should have had the conclusions of the Stortinget now in connection with the treatment of the national transport plan, so that we could have taken the offensive grips already now. Now it's a little dependent on what you can get here at Stortinget, but we don't know what the county councils and local authorities want. But everyone - not least SV - sees that if one is going to get a urban path solution, the state has to enter a splinter layer economically to get it done. So the premise is that a multiple of the local part is behind and supports SV's requirement for an urban path solution. I have to spend some time on the party that has had national meetings on the weekend, and that writes pages up and down with argument against tolls. – They must have a bad thing when they have to write so many pages that we who have to follow along on this fall off the load. They criticize the majority, especially the Government, when it comes to toll cuts. From the plural's side, we show that it's actually that, among other things. The Progress Party in Oslo has asked us to make proposals so that one can benefit from tolls for the operation of public transport. It has the Progress Party in Oslo – among others. the party leader is a member - please ask us. So the government took it to the order, a thought it was tricked. That's what we do, and then we decide. Then we have also had a progress party that has negotiated the budget three times with the Bondevik II government. They didn't rip a tree. The bombs stood, and the money flowed in from the car list without the Progression Party being proposed, for example. to allow $5 billion to take away the trees. I think it's very strange that we have to spend time listening to the fact that the Progress Party is actually against tolls, when we actually see that they are for tolls both in Oslo, at Os, in Austevoll and in other municipalities where they have power. They don't do anything in connection with the budget with the trees when they're in position, when they could have suggested, let and negotiated to remove the trees. They didn't do it the three times they could have done it. It's a little strange that Sandberg and Sortevik flag this so high at their national meeting – and also in this room. The North-Jearne needs forward-looking transport solutions, not least to link up with the climate agreement, which is very clear on the need to reduce car traffic and bring about new great collective solutions. SV is convinced that the urban route is the answer, together with restrictive measures for car traffic to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e592	The case rapporteur in the previous case was strongly absent, but the representative Langeland from the government party SV was very clearly present. Sometimes it's actually fun to listen to the representative Langeland, but sometimes it can be a lot of repetition from the representative who is opposed to cars and against roads. We are pleased that he has limited influence in his own government for that view. This case concerns measures to increase toll revenue from the North-Jearen package until the end of 2011, 160 million. kr per. year, a total of 400 million. kr from summer of this year until end of 2011. The Progress Party is opposed and believes that the State must also pay for this. I refer to the five proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are in the process of winding up and putting a full stop to the practice of today's toll system in Norway, proposal No. 3 new proposals for financing tools and proposals No. 4 and 5 are specific with regard to the North Jären Bombengegesellschaft, State acquisition and allocation of the 400 million. kr in the revised national budget. This case is one of four toll cases The Storting is now going to deal with before the session and the period is finished, two today and two next week. The size confers special taxation on toll companies – tolls are special taxation, extra taxation and taxes on transport. So there's more special taxation from a government that has increased the use of tolls by over 30 pst. in the period 2006-2009, to nearly DKK 20 billion, and a new DKK 75 billion is waiting for the Government’s proposal for NTP 2010–2019. The four cases have a total envelope of SEK 5.4 billion in tolls, DKK 5.4 billion in interest and NOK 90 million in collection. 35 pst is paid. at the top of the road projects. It's expensive to pay off. Overall, the drivers shall pay twice as much as the toll subsidy for the projects themselves. We think we're a little bit familiar with that. The party of progress believes that this is unnecessary, completely unnecessary. The state does not lack money, but the government lacks political will to use modern financing tools for the investment of Norwegian Community wealth in Norwegian roads. This case provides an opportunity to focus on EU requirements for Norwegian toll schemes, and there are many of them – initially discounts on a number of projects, both existing projects and adopted projects, where the EU requires a maximum discount of 13 pst. What does this mean? For example, if the price is $20 per cent Passing, and the discount rate when using a piece is 50 pst., pays the car list with a piece of 10 kroner. If the discount rate is set to 13 pst, the payment will increase to almost 17.5 kroner, i.e. almost 75 pst. This is an example of a passenger car. For car trains, it's not just a stronger percentage, but it's actually also going to be a very powerful increase in crowns. What's the status? There are questions to the meeting of the State Council. Why doesn't Stortinge get a status briefing? Has the EU rejected Norwegian requirements for special schemes, as we have been able to read in the media? This means a sharp increase in the price of bombing. What does the Government do with this? Has the Government failed to inform the Storting about the situation, which is serious? We have also been able to read that the EU directive, which came into force last year, was to be introduced in Norway in June 2008. How has the Government managed this situation? How will the Government inform the Storting about the EU Directive's features in all existing tolling schemes and in all adopted new tolling schemes? This problem, of course, helps to emphasise that tolls are a good thing – I assume that they are a parliamentary expression – and should be removed, as the Progress Party is now once again promoting proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e607	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The called alternate from the Telemark County, Mari Helén Varøy, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e612	There are toll missions in this country, but it is new to me that it is growing to such an extent that it has become the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture! This is an important thing because one here solves important traffic problems in the North-Jear. The fact that a local now has the opportunity to build these roads, which will bring about the completion of the first North-Jear package, is crucial to the flow of traffic. Even I was lucky this morning – the plane was a little delayed and so I reached it. But because of precisely these traffic routes that we have up to today, major traffic problems occur even outside the rush time in this area, which will be reinforced not least now when the Risavika port becomes more and more extensive in its operations. But the representative of Langeland is concerned with something that is absolutely essential, namely that on the North-Jearth one will not be able to build itself out of traffic problems by just betting on the road. Well-functioning collective solutions linked to the double track on the North Jären between Stavanger and Sandnes and a better bus offer, but not least the future plan of a city track will be crucial to solving traffic problems on the North Jären. By just expanding the road, it will not be possible to solve those challenges. That is why I am also pleased that the majority in the vote refers to plans for an urban railway. Now it's like Hallgeir H. Langeland there should concentrate his activity on his own red-green friends who run Rogaland County, because it's the ones who are really the plug of the system here. Right-steered Stavanger is for the city track. The right of the county is for the city track. What will be crucial to the success of the construction of an urban railway on the North-Jearth will be that, in the context of the national transport plan, which is now being dealt with in the Stortinget, the majority is clear that the State will also provide direct support for the development of an urban railway on the North-Jearth, such as: has done in relation to the urban railway in Bergen. But with the funding system proposed by the Government, with the transitional regime that is over in 2013, it will not be possible to manage the development of an urban railway at the size of the North-Jear. So unless the government parties here turn around and agree to what the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to, namely that the State should continue to have a financial responsibility for the type of collective infrastructure investment in the metropolitan areas, it will not be possible to realise an urban railway project in the Northern Ireland. I hope that the representative Langeland is working very hard for that within the committee, and not least that he also whispers a few words in the ears of his red-green colleagues in Rogaland County that they must also stand for such a solution so that we can realise what I believe is Hallgeir H. Langeland's dream. His best gunman in this dream is thus Right and not his own red-green politicians in Rogaland County.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e625	First of all, I can reassure the representative, Höie, that I am here today only as an oil and energy minister and deputy transport minister, and that the Minister of Agriculture is left in the Ministry of Agriculture, so the fear of the possible growth of new toll stations is probably a bit on the side as seen. I am pleased that the Stortinget today joins in the proposal to complete the Nord-Jären package. As is clear from both the vote and the discussion here today, all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, agree to follow up the decision taken by Rogaland County Municipality on 10 December 2008. The changes for which the county then applied are estimated to give approximately 400 million. kr more in revenue for the two and a half years remaining of the tolling period. Some of this money will be used to secure the full funding of R & D. 510, Solasflitten, a project that was also presented in the 2009 state budget. Following the priorities set out in the decision of the county council, a large proportion of the additional revenue will be used to build new collective fields, among others. on rv. 44 and Rv. 509. This is important for improving the environment and traffic conditions in Northern Ireland. I am also interested in what will come to light in the concept committee study on the transport system on the Jären, which the county council is now in the final phase of. An important issue in this investigation is the best way to improve the provision of collective transport services. Is it the combi, the city railway or different bus solutions that will provide the best offer? This draft committee study and an external quality assurance of it will be a central premise for the continuation of the Nord-Jären package in a future Jären package 2. I noticed that the committee is also looking forward to this investigation. Then there has been a small debate in advance here with, among other things. The advance party attached to tolls as such. That the Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that local authorities, with the county council at the head, actually see it as the best solution to go in to increase the toll tariffs, I guess I shouldn't say is directly surprising. Nor does the Progress Party want the Government to present toll cases to the Storting as long as we have not agreed with the EU on how to adapt to a Brussels directive is not surprising. As the Minister of Transport wrote in a letter to the Committee on Transport and Communications on 27 April of this year, the Ministry is «in dialogue with the Commission on possible adaptations or any transitional arrangements. Before there is a result of this work, it is difficult to say exactly what time it is and how it is to be implemented in Norwegian law.» These comments and proposals of the Progress Party may be seen only as part of the visualisation of the principal toll resistance of the lot. I am happy, like the Stortinget, that despite this, it has gone quickly to get this case up and up to the decision here in the Chamber today, and will take the opportunity to thank for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e643	First, let me make it clear that when the Progress Party does not want more toll issues for the Stortinget, it is because we want to remove the scheme. There is also no need to assign specific taxation authorities individually. What we are concerned about is getting clearer answers and not least clarifications on the EU Directive and the inclusion of existing and adopted toll systems. I have found an example of lorry/wagon train Oslo – Stavanger. There, the price increases from 240 kroner by more than 100 kroner – so there is a sharp increase in transport costs within the framework of existing toll networks. When does this come to light? When will the Stortinge get a clarification, and, not least, when will those who use the road to transport goods get a clarification on how this Directive will enter into Norwegian road financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e654	It is not possible for me to say anything more than what I said in my post. The Ministry is now in the process of dealing with this issue with the Commission. I know that the Minister of Transport himself is concerned about finding a quick solution to this, but there is a job that needs to be done with the material content of the matter. Before you have an overview of it, it is also not possible to give exactly any time according to the question being asked. So my answer is the same as what I said from the pulpit: it's working on the matter and with an ambition to get it clarified as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e659	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e663	Actually, there might not be any need to say anything more in this kind of case. The majority, all the lots except the Advance Party, have converted the Stortinget into a dispatch office in relation to these kinds of cases. It is also reflected in the statement made by the rapporteur, and it is also reflected in the comments made by the government parties in the vote. I find it very strange that the rapporteur in his post has almost presented a case relating to the rush time charge and the railway line at Jären. As I have interpreted the rapporteur's observations, it was in the comments and what is being said by the majority that there is almost a decision on the rush time charge on the Jären. It's worth noting, even if there's nothing special about it in the decision. Then I also register that the case rapporteur, Hallgeir H. Langeland from SV, is also trying to suggest in the setting that someone has a bad case – when you write and are concerned that things should be treated qualitatively, it is almost proof that you have a bad case. The proof that you have a bad case is shown on page 2, where the majority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, have nothing to convey other than a history distortion – simply a bluff. I am going to work so hard because it is not right for the Progress Party to negotiate three budgets with the Bondevik II Government. It's directly wrong. The Progress Party negotiated two budgets with the Bondevik II Government. The third year came a cabinet question from the Bondevik II government. In the fourth year, the Labour Party made a budgetary settlement with the Bondevik II Government. It is also directly wrong that the Progress Party has changed the law at this point, as the comment also states. But it is clear that when you have to use that kind of means to carry out that kind of thing without having a debate on it, I take it for granted that the case rapporteur has the support of all the other parties, both to his post and to what is of note here. However, I also record that the Council of State is unable to indicate in any way what this government will do when the EU Discount Scheme Directive is going to go through both in the EU and in the Norwegian Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e674	The President would point out that the word 'bluff' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e677	Then I will not use the word 'bluff' to refer to the Progress Party, but only to what is stated in the comments, and as the next leader of the Progress Party is a little annoyed that we take up, that is, the actual relationship to what one has done in Oslo FrP, where, among other things. Siv Jensen is a member. So one of them, together with the other parties in Oslo, has asked the Stortinget to change the law so that it is possible to use tolls for the operation of public transport. It has been part of the Advance Party in Oslo to ask for it, and it then has a plurality on the Stortinget, including the government party, supported and thought was a good thing. So the actual fact is that it's the City Council in Oslo, in cooperation with Akershus, who has made an application to the Government to change the law. That is what the Progress Party has been in on. They have in Oslo agreed that tolls should be used for the operation of public transport, and that is good. But then Sandberg won't recognize it. So to the history of the budgets. It may be that Sandberg is right, but in any case there are at least two budgets in which the Progress Party could have gone to Bondevik and said that now we are going to negotiate the budget, that is a demand from us, and that requirement is so strong that we will not be on any budget with you if we do not get it implemented. The bombs in Norway must be removed. We're not going to skin the caristics anymore. We're not going to run a highway robbery. This is such an important matter that we must actually get this into place in the budget. But it didn't happen. I didn't ask for $5 billion. One of them got 1 million. (b) increase in road maintenance in the budget. One can't be particularly proud of it if one feels serious about being clean and ranked on the toll front. Then it will be referred to the urban runway, climate problems and rush time charges. It is quite right that the climate agreement says that one has to reduce car traffic in order to get money from the reward scheme. And an effective way to do it, it turns out, is what a person does in Stockholm. So I said in my post that NHO – Business Norway – asks for this, but the Progress Party is not a business-friendly party, so they're against this. They want the drivers to be in a car queue and lose money. They want business to stand for hours and let go of greenhouse gases, and they want to lose money on waiting in the queue. It is a willful policy. For what works, one will not do. The city railway is a very important matter for the region. I am pleased that there is a great deal of support for the Stortinget, and I hope that what SV suggested in 1993 will soon be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e688	The President would point out that neither the word ‘land road robbery’ is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e691	This could be fun. Now that SV has become NHO's party, I assume SV will open up for oil and gas extraction in the north, because I think the NHO also wants to do so. That's an interesting development. The Progress Party is a party with its own policies. We do not consider our policy from NHO, LO or other special interests, as the government parties do. Then I've made it firm. But when I point to page 2, the majority of the city council in Oslo, and to Oslo FrP. In Section 2, the following points are added: 2 under ‘Another plural’, it is: ‘This plurality will indicate that the Storting therefore, as requested by the Government and from among others. The party of progress, has amended the law at this point.’ No, the Progress Party voted against these legislative changes, and therefore – I am not going to use the word ‘bløff’ – you deliberately circumvent the truth here, and that is the only argument you have. And when we talk about local democracy, the right to self-determination and the local initiative – which I call discharge – because we owe it to local politicians: local politicians and regional politicians on the Jären will do exactly the same thing as the Progress Party. They want the state to finance the infrastructure, but when Langeland and others are engaged in state extortion, these local politicians do not know their poor advice on putting an infrastructure in place. These local politicians suffer from the Stockholm syndrome: they are hostages, and at some point the hostages become happy with the kidnappers. There are actually some of our politicians who have ended up in that situation, and then it's serious. However, if this argument is to be used, that local initiatives are generally legal, that local initiatives are the overall activity of Storting, yes, it becomes interesting in many cases. I imagine there's going to be a local initiative, where you want to charge extra taxes to expand the care for the elderly. Then the same majority cannot say no – because it will be a local initiative. This is total disclaimer from the majority, and I think most people have noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e701	It was interesting to hear the representative Langeland's attempt to describe the facts. Unfortunately, at best it was probably historyless, or in borderland too dubious. At least I have no doubt that what Mr Sandberg has just said is the facts. That Langeland makes its own historical interpretations of what's actually happening, it gets to be Langeland's problem. But I want, when Langeland is so concerned that the Stockholm project is a fantastic project, to ask him also to listen to others who have a slightly different perception of how the Stockholm project has actually worked. For example, maybe Langeland should call the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, which is very clear and clear that this has not been a good solution. What's the result is that there's an equal amount of traffic. The traffic may have turned around a little in relation to where it is going, but in Stockholm the traffic is the same. In addition, according to the representative Langeland and other representatives of the government parties, this amazing project has proved to be a crazy expensive way to collect money. Based on the information we received, I think you spent almost 600 million dollars. NOK just to collect the money – and that was approx. $800 million. kr was taken into the year. At least then, there is no doubt that this is a bad arrangement. What's important here is that the Swedish authorities also put in over NOK 3 billion just for public transport. I do not see that neither Langeland nor other representatives of the government parties, when talking about the rush time charge and in the eagerness for rush time charges, have been in the same amount of government funding to operate public transport, for example. in Oslo. Then there's tolls and it's – I'm sorry, President, I was going to say state blackmail, but it's state demand that it's the drivers who have to pay the bill for public transport as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e710	I'm sorry I used the cover "Landway Robbery". I thought it was something that was often used here by another party, but it's obviously not like that. But I have recorded that at least a lot is used in newspapers, etc. as a score So I have to say to the Progress Party that it's obvious that we're into something here, because the commitment is so big to prove that a real thing is against tolls. But what is the actual situation is that the City Council of Oslo, which is part of the Progress Party, asked us to reform the law so that it was possible to take funds from tolls to public transport. That's the actual ratio. It is a good proposal that was supported by Stortinget. So it's at the request of the Progress Party, for example. in Oslo, the Government made this change. That's what this is saying. That's right, that's right. That's what it says: At the request of others. Oslo and the Progress Party, with the Oslo Progress Party at the head, the government has changed the law at this point. When this is the case with the local initiative, it is not that all local initiatives are taken into consideration, but it is of course important for magnification and government to listen to what local democracy is asking for. And when local democracy in Oslo, with the Progress Party 'in Government' in Oslo, asks for something from us, then we must listen. And then we listened so well after we accepted the proposal from the Progress Party in Oslo that one should be able to use tolls for the operation of public transport. Although SV now refers to the NHO and that they are in favour of a running-time charge, it is not the case that the Stortinget today decides to charge a running-time fee. What the Storting has agreed, it's an agreement, a climate settlement, where it says that one should reduce car traffic. So then there's one way to do it, which SV supports, and which I hope will get started in Kristiansand. The government is now negotiating for a reward scheme in order to try this in Norway. It's very clever. But, of course, it's not a good idea if you give the bluff in greenhouse gas emissions and give the bluff in what business is going to get out of money. Then you just have to go ahead like this: more car traffic, more car traffic – and that is what the Progress Party is its policy. We are trying to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We try to listen to organizations when we think they say something tricked. The party of progress is obviously running its course in this matter, as in other cases. And the national meeting has shown that that's what they're going to win the election with: show that they're doing something completely different than everybody else – no matter how wrong it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e719	The best example of the hat-love relationship of the Progress Party with tolls is, I must say, when we look at the proposal that we are going to deal with a little later today, a proposal from the Left to introduce a 'free' system into the collective system. This is a proposal supported by the Progress Party. As is known, the toll collection scheme in Oslo is not available. So it has been such a success that the Progress Party now also wants to introduce this kind of system with brand names from the tolling. So that's how well this arrangement is in the Progress Party. However, it is also an example of Norway, in Oslo, which has found much more effective ways to collect tolls than what you have in Stockholm. Therefore, it is also wrong when the representative Hoksrud uses this as an example that toll collection is not very effective. The representative of Hoksrud is probably also aware that there have been major changes in the Stockholm project, among others. have been removed from the collective part of the experiment there and now bet only on the road. It has proved to be a big mistake. It is necessary to do more of what the Progress Party is doing in Oslo, namely to bet on public transport and road at the same time. It is quite right, as the representative of Langeland says here, that the Progress Party in Oslo has been involved in this. The former mayor of Oslo, Peter N. Myhre, of the Progress Party, I have had the pleasure of being at many joint meetings with him in many debates, and he has used expressions such as ‘this is a great compromise’, ‘a good package’, and he has also proved to be a man who has stood for what he has done. I am quite sure that the Progress Party in Oslo is looking with little gentleness at being called 'gisler', being accused of suffering from the Stockholm syndrome. I think it's a rather special mention of our own party traps, which we're not actually involved in the Workers' Party. It may seem that the discussion that we still have about tolls is beginning to enter the Progress Party now, when the Vice-Chairman has to go up to the pulpit again and again and raise his voice and distance himself from what the Progress Party in Oslo has been doing. There are also other progress party teams that have done this in a different way. In Bergen, the Progress Party went out of the City Council because they could not participate in tolls. In Oslo they sit well in town council, they like it. Then the Progress Party must also stand in for it on the Stortinget and be able to stand for having a large party team that is involved in this very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e726	This case concerns the completion of the Nord-Jären package, and the important thing in this case is that there is a proposal here that also has local support, membership of the county, and that is with and funding important transport measures in this region. It's the Sola split, it's collective field on Rv. 44 and Rv. 509, that's rv. 505 Foss–Eikeland Bru, there are walking and cycling roads, and there are cross-repairs that make the whole of the traffic image in the area far, far better. Then the representative, Mr Sortevik, says that the representative, Mr Langeland, repeats these debates. But what we also have to say about the Progress Party is that it repeats that there is going to be a general toll discussion in every single case. I respect the fact that the Progress Party does not want to have toll collection. This is a question of how to spend your people's money in society. It's not that the Progress Party has some other money to spend than us, it's ours, yours and mine, the money it's about, how we're going to spend it in a pretty good way in this community. Then it is a fact that the reality is gaining the Progress Party around – they can't escape – when progress party representatives in local and regional environments have been involved in toll schemes to finance different projects. For example, that reality can quickly be recovered if they come in position with Right, for example. For the Right, they have said that they will not be involved in any way in the economic policy of the Progress Party, and the Progress Party's economic policy is, of course, that one should use much more of our oil money to compensate for taxes and taxes in society. And then I wonder, when it costs 24 billion kroner just to trigger today's toll project, how do you measure this? Will it happen the same as what happened in Bergen, that the Progress Party is flying away from its responsibility, or will they be on another scheme in conjunction with Right? Otherwise, you will have an uncertain future for these projects. And then I agree that if you have tolls first, you have to try to make the toll as effective as possible. There I actually agree with Blackvik, that there is too much money being spent on the collection itself today, so it has to be streamlined, either through regional toll companies, or rather a national toll company, to make this as effective as possible, and then by electronic collection. We have to bring down the red tape and the cost of it. But I don't see it as unimaginable that those who benefit from a road project are also involved and pay for it. The alternative is that one takes it over the tax haven, and one distributes it to everyone. But I think it's right that whoever benefits from one thing is with and pays for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e737	The representative Rudihagen is quite right to remind us what this matter is, and it concerns 400 million. kr in extra user payment on the Nord-Jären. But at the same time, as I said in my first post, this is the first of four such cases that come at the end of this session and this period, where there have been a whole series of cases, between 20 and 30 – almost 30 – cases where heavy bills are spent on car users. And in the four cases, we're now dealing with the first of them, so it's like this -- and now I have to repeat it too -- that it's going to be worth 5 400 million. kr in tolls. At the same time, the same drivers that have to pay these 5,400 million. DKK in tolls, also pay 5 400 million. NOK in interest payable and SEK 90 million. So it's almost 100 million kroner. NOK, in collection costs. It's unreasonably expensive. There is also reason to remember that the Storting is making a decision on these matters. This is where the decisions are taken, which is why this debate is going to take place, and this is where alternative solutions are presented. It has had the Progress Party in all of these nearly 30 toll cases dealt with in the Storting during this period. So during this period, this government has prepared new bills, the use of toll financing has increased by over 30 pst, and I repeat that there are new bills ready. There is a toll bill ready for further road development across Norway of 75 billion kroner in the next ten years. And that can't be because there's no money in the treasury. On the contrary, when there is even more available capacity than we have had earlier in this period in Norway, and we are still a rich country, there would actually be more opportunities than for a long time for the state to finance a forced development of the road network in Norway. Instead, we see that the state limits its funding, as shown in the National Transport Plan, and sends new bills to the drivers: 75 billion kroner in the next ten years. It is against the Advancement Party, and we are showing that here in the Stortinget. Every time we deal with these things, we repeat our principle view. In addition to that, we are also trying to drive the damage limitation along the way, not least in terms of the unreasonably high interest costs and the crazy high collection costs that are being introduced into all these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e744	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3134]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e760	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e769	This is a case similar to the previous case, so I expect the various parties to explain their views on the matter. The issue is an extension of the Sky–Langangen route, which goes from Westfold to Telemark, an approx. 9,5 km long distance. There has been a very bad stretch, and parts of the distance is considered to have the worst standard of E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand. On behalf of all those who live along the E18 on this route, and not least on behalf of all those who run on today's tram, and who for many years have seen a new four-field road set up, today is a joyous day. Finally, the battle for new E18 is crowned on the track with victory. But despite the joy of the road finally coming, it is also important to bear in mind that both local authorities, the inhabitants and not least all those who are going to use the road have been, and will continue to be, very critical to the government's thought of extortion, and not least high requirements for toll financing of the route. It is also important to bear in mind that this route is part of a comprehensive development plan for the routes Gulli-Langåker, Bommestad-Sky and the route we are currently dealing with, the Sky-Langang. The total cost of development is estimated at a minimum of DKr 5.9 billion. The final amount of the total costs depends on the solutions chosen on the route Bommestad-Sky. However, regardless of the solutions chosen, it is clear that the majority will not use more State resources for the projects than the framework on which they are based. today. That means the state will only spend $1,950 million. kr for the development of these projects. This means that the drivers are actually charged a total of $9 billion, $9,000 million. kr, to build these sections. The undersigned cannot see that this is anything other than state r... – I thought of something that started at r, but I shouldn't say it – against all the drivers who are going on the route. I also have to point out that just for the Sky-Langangen route, where the state spends $600 million. So we're going to get the bill for the cars. We're going to get over 2,000 million. kr, which the Progress Party will point to is also contrary to today's national transport plan, which says that tolls should be a complement to State funding. How two thousand million. kr may be a supplement when the country contributes 600 million. I am happy to hear representatives from the government parties explain to me today. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Progress Party wants an acceleration of development and believes that OPS or project financing are solutions that are good for even faster progress. But for the Progress Party it's not very important which solution you choose, it's actually much more important that there's a much faster progress than what's now at stake. Then I want to make an explanation of vote. We do not want to support the proposal of the Right Christian People's Party and the Left, because they refer to a OPS solution on the same line as previous OPS solutions. And at least the majority have been using tolls. Unfortunately, we have registered that it is only the Progress Party in this room that is clear and clear opponents of the use of tolls. We believe that OPS is a reasonable solution, but tolls are a solution we don't want, it shouldn't be part of OPS. OPS is about the manner in which development is to be carried out and then there may be a solution. But it can also be project financing. So we're not so much concerned with OPS or project funding, we're most concerned that something actually happens, that action happens, and that you get to expand, and that it happens with government money. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e782	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e785	Of course, the right is pleased that we are going to adopt this project today, but at the same time this is a very good illustration of the clandestine expansion we are now doing in Norway. This is a rather large cliff, but still: Until Tønsberg on the E18 through Vestfold, the state road system, including the Hanekleivtunnel, spent 89 months on the construction of a three-mile stretch. And it wasn't because the Vegvessen made so much money, but because the Storting had to go in and out every year, because the Storting was going into the picture all the time, because we have the budgeting policy we have, and because we have the lack of overall thinking we have in terms of major road development in this country. So we know that soon the section Grimstad–Kristiansand, a stretch similar to the extension in Westfold, will open. It's taken 39 months to expand that distance, i.e. that it has taken 50 months less than it did on the corresponding route in Westfold. That is, four years and two months represent the difference in the development of two- or three-mile sections, one built in a traditional way — in fact, the last project built by the Vegvesen itself — the other built in a modern way, a complete extension, a OPS extension. Therefore, an overall opposition now wants faster progress, and the Right, Left and Christian People's Party have gathered on a OPS project. I would like to stress that should a port in a situation where the state has a great deal of access to funds and opportunities to do so without toll financing, there is of course nothing wrong with financing this as an OPS project without tolls. But in this context, toll financing agreements have already been made on E18, and we are following that. But we want to propose – and I am referring to this proposal – to define the routes of Gulli-Langanker and Bommestad-Sky, as one project, and to develop it as a OPS solution. In its alternative transport plan, the right has proposed that something more than 20 projects be expanded as OPS projects. That is what we want to be consistent on and promote proposals on it in order to speed up progress. In addition, this will result in a much larger volume of road construction in the period now approaching 2020-2025, when we know, and everyone here knows, that pension expenditure, health home expenditure and the elderly wave are taking too full action. We have a timeline now of 15 years where it really has to be invested in transportation, and then we have to use OPS solutions, then we have to use untraditional funding, and then we have to think again to move on. On behalf of those who are going to drive this route through Vestfold and down towards Telemark, I have to say that this is a joyous day, but it could have been an even greater day of joy if one had known that one could get a continuous expansion of E18. If one had had the four years and two months that I pointed out was the difference in the development of E18 through Westfold and Grimstad-Kristiansand, I think we could say that if we had built in the same way in Westfold, we would now have been through Westfold. We had been through Telemark, and we had been on a good path into East Agder. Then we could really have celebrated. But we get to take what we get, and then we suggest a OPS project on this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e798	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e801	Yeah, we're happy today. This is a matter that we in Vestfold and Telemark have waited a long time for, and many of us have been with and dealt with this matter locally before we got here. That's why it's a good day today. The expansion of the E18 on the Sky–Langange route is longed for by many, and when this parcel comes into place, we look forward to getting a great road through Westfold. We chose to develop ourselves individually in Westfold because at the time we saw that it was the only way to do this. Locally, therefore, we chose to give priority to those parcels that we saw were the most accident-affected, which were the most burdened in terms of traffic, and the parcel that we are dealing with here today is definitely one of them. Too many fatal accidents and too many serious accidents with major consequences for drivers and society have occurred on this route, and the traffic load is high. It's the main nerve between the East and the South, where we can get there faster during periods by going from roof to roof of the cars than by driving a car. Our business has waited a long time for this to save more time and money and not spend time sitting in a queue and having poor performance. Prosperity and improvement of a miserable standard are other things I'll highlight as positive by what's happening, and many are probably happy that we've come to where we are today. The fact that the next parcels are not completely finished for start-up, is of course a little regrettable, and is due to several things, including local. But we hope for progress in this, so that these too can get going quickly. There have been significantly fewer accidents in Westfold since the opening of the new road in the north, and there are probably only a few fatal accidents on that route now that it was previously weekly. With a complete E18 through Vestfold, many lives will thus be saved and one of the most stressful distances in Norway removed. Therefore, it is important to get a fully developed E18. There is also a great deal of political consensus in Westfold that the road must be put in place, even if the Progress Party is blaming for toll financing. When we started planning this route, we planned it together with the railway. I want to mention that it's important maybe to look at it more closely. We wanted a parcel extension where we could use the mass from the tunnel construction, for the railway, to fill in to the road. Having a common use of such facilities should be right, and it should be important to look at it. I therefore hope that those who are now going to plan the railway tunnel through Eidanger, and the road, take a new round in view of this and look at what we saw at the time we planned the line: common utility. As I said, we are very pleased that the plant starts before the summer, and we look forward to a new road both in Westfold and in Telemark. I expect a lot of people here will agree. Previous talks referred to that he drove between Vestfold and Telemark to go on vacation. Telemark and Vestfold are holiday homes and cabins. There is a lot of stress in relation to that traffic, and on the way to Southland, which is also a recreational area, Sky–Langangange is an important parcel to complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e818	I only have two brief comments on this matter. It's a pleasure day when we have a veggie of this dimension on the agenda. But it has also been expressed some but. We have noticed in particular that local authorities in the process of reaching a decision have been strongly critical of the high toll ratio of 67 p.p., with a state share of only 33 p.p. But there are local connections to this, and in the Christian People's Party we have tradition of following the local connections. But we are dealing with the national transport plan for the time being, and in the view of the Christian People's Party, there is absolutely reason to have a debate on how high toll shares we want when roads are to be financed by the state. We'll now see once again that the magic limit of 50 pst. be exceeded and, in this case, significantly exceeded. We are asking some questions about this and will address in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan the question of how high to go in terms of toll collection rates. I also think there may be reason to question how many trees you can set up on the same route. We will come back to this in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. So the question of an overall expansion, which is already affected by the representative of Greece. There is the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right together to wish for a complete expansion of this route, and then as a OPS project. We understand that the government fears delays if the project was to be merged into one, and we accept that. But what we can't accept is you pick a way of building out that we're going to have to assume takes twice as long. We wanted to view this distance as a unit. Then you could have taken the first parcel while waiting for the rest to come into place, and look at it as a whole OPS project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e830	E18 is an important tribal route and means a lot to both people and businesses. It is an obvious goal to keep the pace up and down between Telemark and Oslo. A new E18 will make it easier and safer to get between the border area and the westfold cities, and reducing transport costs will contribute to growth and development. Better traffic flow will also affect the environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. When I hope that this debate will not flow out in a long toll debate as well, it is because there is no result other than that the blood pressure of the participants is likely to be slightly higher. Nor do we in the Center Party see tolls as any main solution for forced road development in the country. That's exactly why we, in close cooperation with our government partners, have worked hard to increase the licenses for transportation by NOK 15 billion in this period. That is exactly why we have presented a national transport plan in which we show our clear ambitions for a historically high level of intra-trafficking. When, in addition to greatly increasing government promises, there are many immodest communities and regions that will go in for tolls to build what for them is decisive, simply important, faster, we choose to recognise it. At the same time, we see that high collection costs are a problem, and we think they have to go down. Among other things, the idea of a regional toll company is interesting. The route Sky–Langangen is far from in good condition per. today. She is even mentioned in the proposition as a stretch that some places have some of the worst standard on E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand. Remedy of this distance is therefore strongly desired and delayed. On behalf of the government party, I would like to stress that we are pleased that it has been added to plant start as early as this summer. We also believe that there has been a simple and good tariff and discount structure for toll projects on this route. I refer you to the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e845	The case rapporteur and I have it in common that today we are discussing a road section that we are both going to have great joy from, and that for the part of the country we come from is a big and important thing. There is no doubt, as others have pointed out, that for the people of Westfold and Telemark, there is a significant decision that the Stortinget will now take. Then the inhabitants of the same counties should be happy that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy for a solution that is realistic and that is feasible, and not just suitable on paper. I am pleased that the Stortinget today will join the proposal for financing and expanding the E18 south of Westfold. The proposal covers the development and financing of E18 on the route Sky-Langangen in Vestfold and Telemark, as well as a review of the overall development and financing arrangements for the entire Gulli-Langangangen route along the E18. The Sky-Langangen route now has some of the worst standards for the whole of the E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand, and the expansion will bring considerable benefits in terms of road safety and accessibility. There are gains that it is important to obtain quickly, and funds for this project have been allocated in the action package, so that development can start as soon as possible. I have noticed that the opposition parties wanted a complete expansion of the Gulli–Langanad route, and that the extension was to be organised as an OPS project. To this I would say that such a coherent development would have delayed the whole development, as the necessary local plan clarifications are not available. It has therefore been most appropriate to extend the distance in pairs, as it is now being done. The evaluation of the OPS projects carried out in the road sector has shown that one does not achieve lower costs with such an organisation, but that one can achieve a somewhat faster project implementation. In this context, I would like to point out that on the route between Kopstad, at the entrance to Horten, the Langangen will be a continuous extension. Immediately after the completion of Kopstad-Gulli, the construction of Langåker-Bommestad began. When that parcel is finished in the summer, work starts on the routes Sky–Langangang and Gulli–Langåker. The line Bombestad-Sky will follow as planned. The order of expansion is based on expanding only where the need is greater. The development of E18 through Westfold shows that traditional organisation and funding can also ensure rational and efficient deployment. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party say in the vote that local authorities have been very critical of the size of the tolls in this expansion. I would like to remind you that both of the municipalities involved have taken decisions in which they join the financing scheme outlined in the previous national transport plan and that the State part of the financing of the final financing scheme is higher than that on which it was based. I am pleased, like the majority of the Storting, that previously adopted progress can be followed, so that development can begin in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e862	No one has asked for the word for a line – well, Bård Hoksrud has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e866	One can't avoid taking a line right now. First of all, I registered that the representative Klinge, from the same party as the government council, says that for the centre party there is no toll on the main solution. I would like the views of the Council of State on this. How can he think that over 60 pst., just on this total project, is a good solution? It is far beyond the limits that NTP assumes in relation to toll collection. So the Council of State says you have to have a possible and realistic solution. I thought the Council of State was aware that he is in a majority government that can actually implement all the political decisions that you want to implement, because you have a majority in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e875	Yes, the last is of course correct – and good. What I referred to in my speech is the fact that the Progress Party and the representative of Hoksrud give the impression that the solution outlined by the party is a solution that can be implemented. It's not. The representative Hoksrud also knows that, after all, because there is no majority in favour of such a solution. This means that the Progress Party’s struggle for solutions based on full government funding and not tolls will be nothing more than that matters and projects will be put at risk – if one is to fight it within other constellations. So the way projects can be realized for the inhabitants of Telemark and Westfold is through a combination of state money, as we are doing here now, and toll financing. In this way, we will have E18 built in Westfold now, and we will have other projects built in Norway later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e882	The council says this is the only way to get built. Fortunately, it's not long until there's a new choice, and then, in fact, the voters both in Westfold and in Telemark have the opportunity to join in putting together who is to represent the parties on the Stortinget. At that time, politicians who are willing to spend money – and spend government money – may be admitted to road construction in this country. But I also want to challenge the Council of States, because he said something about this being important in order to speed up local initiatives. I ask questions about whether this project is about acceleration, because this is a project that has been delayed – for a long time – and that has been exposed and postponed. It should have been done a long time ago. How can you say that this is an acceleration, that you have to take over 60 pst. in tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e889	In terms of funding, it is true that if, within government budgets, the share of funding for this project increased, it would take longer to realise it — if one has a financial framework to deal with in budgetary policy, as the vast majority of the parties to the Storting actually have. This means that a combination of government funding and user funding is the fastest way to get these projects started. And it's a pleasure for the people of Telemark, who represent both Hoksrud and I, and the people of Westfold. As far as progress is concerned, this case shows that one by going on the projects that have been most mature, and realizing them, has been suggested that this route can be realized faster than the option had been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e896	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e901	It is good to record that all the speakers enjoy themselves on behalf of the people of Westfold – so far so do I. Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen from Vestfold and Larvik say that you have waited a long time for this – we are told that you have waited too long. You've actually also waited a long time for the proposition. It's been called for, and it should have come last year. It would have made you get faster. Now you get started this year, but you could have started earlier if you had been faster with the proposition. There are two more things that I would like to record. I hear there's a discussion about the state's share in Westfold regarding the whole of the E18 development. It's actually not right, as it says in the proposition, that it's 33 pst. State share. If you take the pair Bommestad-Langåker, where it's just toll money, you're down to 27 pst, so it's actually over 70 pst. user financing. Then I would like to replicate maybe especially to the Council of State, but first to the speakers of the Workers' Party, Mandt-Bartholsen, who says that one hopes to get ahead in the remaining parts of the E18. No, it doesn't just keep hoping. What you have to do is take this in a way that can give you results. And Public Private Cooperation, OPS solutions, has shown that it can go faster. In fact, it's not correct, as the Council of State says in its statement, that you have to expand in pairs due to regulation and due to groundwork. It is only for the Council of State to read its own proposition, which is the two remaining parcels, which are included in the Right’s proposal for OPS solution, mentioned in relation to when they are prepared for development. Then you will see that there are no practical problems that this is now encountering. It is clear that the regulatory plans are in place. For one parcel, the regulatory plan will be ready in early 2010. So if that's just what the government's anticonceptions are, and not the usual allergy to these kinds of solutions, it's just to start -- the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e912	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3135]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e928	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each group and 3 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e937	First, I would like to say that there is enough relatively little disagreement in the committee on what you think about this matter. What you might disagree about is how fast you're going to go forward. There are some differences. I think the representatives themselves will explain the different points of view, but I would like to address some points on which the Progress Party is concerned. We support the Left's proposal to set up a national electronic ticket scheme for seamless public travel throughout the country, but we think it is important to clarify that this must be done in cooperation with the various actors. It is a problem to have different ticketing systems for users and owners and from county to county, but there are clear assumptions for the solutions that have been chosen to allow the use of the systems across county boundaries. That's very good. And that's what it's all about in this case -- being able to get things to stick together and be able to use the same card or the same payment solution across the country. It is also important for the Progress Party to clarify that no actors are to be burdened with excessive costs by being forced into such a system, but that, on the contrary, it is to offer a central clearing system that needs to be developed in cooperation with the actors. The proposal points to a national, but not necessarily state, system. The role of the State should be limited, we believe, to ensure that a common solution is speeded up. I also think that everyone who travels, it's very good to be able to do this, so you don't have to fly around with a pair of cards in order to be allowed to travel around this country and move across the different county boundaries. When establishing an electronic ticketing system, individual privacy is important. Some of the progressing parties have been involved in this matter, is that the privacy of the individual must be ensured. I am therefore pleased that we have brought with us both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that there must still be the opportunity to travel anonymously, either through cash payment or through pre-purchased tickets, on all collective means of transport, even in the future. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that the Progress Party has been and is still sceptical about the storage of passage information and travel information, as we have seen some examples of, among other things. Here in Oslo. That is exactly why we also promoted a proposal for the landfill treatment of the Data Storage Directive. Unfortunately, the proposal received only the votes of the Progress Party at the time, although the debate showed that there were actually very many from other parties who also thought it was a very important matter, and who wanted to have a discussion on the Data Storage Directive. I have also registered that the State Council has made itself critical of the Storage Directive. I would like to raise the motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e952	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e955	I agree with the representative of Hoksrud that there is a relatively large consensus in this matter. That's also why this is something the Government is working on. The government has also earmarked funds for this in the 2009 budget and is already in the process of working with the actors to this end. Among other things, the Government has taken the initiative to develop a technical standard to enable cooperation to be established across states and across companies. Therefore, it is very positive to register this commitment also with the Left, and that is why the proposal is proposed to be annexed to the Protocol, so that it is possible to continue working on it. One thing that is also important in this matter is, as the representative Hoksrud had in mind, privacy. It is also mentioned in the national transport plan, and the majority have a comment asking the Government to ensure that privacy is safeguarded by this solution. The majority, however, is critical that this should be done through cash travel – that it should be possible to pay in cash, especially since we know that holding large amounts of cash on buses, trams or other collective means of transport poses a very high risk to drivers, who experience themselves as a target for cranes or people in desperate search for money. It is therefore disappointing that no more parties take a stronger distance from this with cash payment. Only the Left is in a note that this is important to get to, but the Left is also in a different note where you open up again for cash payment. If the left could clarify its position there, it would have been very nice. Anyway, I think as I said, there's a lot of consensus about this. I also think there is a great deal of consensus that this is something that must happen in cooperation between states and other different actors. But that state is going to have an important role here to put in place a system, I'm not in doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e964	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good review, and also for the support of the Committee on this proposal. The background to the proposal from the Left is the major environmental and need-to-know challenges related to dense road traffic in many cities and urban areas. Large population groups are subject to health pressures due to pollution and noise from high levels of car traffic. The left is therefore committed to getting more traffic on collective means of transport. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Bondevik II Government implemented a number of measures to strengthen public transport, inter alia. the introduction of the reward scheme for public transport in urban areas and the low rate of VAT for passenger travel by collective means of transport. Today, electronic payment has been introduced through an AutoPASS system for cars. The left considers that a similar system should be introduced for public transport, which allows seamless driving, including for collective travellers. We believe that such a solution would be simplistic and contribute to making collective travel more attractive. Today's collective services consist mainly of municipal public transport, often in interactions with rail traffic and express buses. Travellers who switch between operators or cross country borders on public travel often have to deal with different ticket systems. Many experience this as a heavy burden, which can act as a barrier to choosing to travel collectively. I would also like to point out that there is extensive purchase and sale of tickets on board collective means of transport, on which the representative of Wickholm was present. The reason we've been on two different variants in this regard is simply that we want people to travel anonymously. At the same time, we think the few would make a reservation. We don't think it's going to be the big money stock in the buses, as it is now. Then we are pleased that this is mentioned in the NTP, and that the Government will contribute to establishing nationwide systems to travel seamlessly. However, we are somewhat disappointed that no more pressure has been put on it. We now expect the department to keep pressure on the matter, so that as soon as possible a solution can be found that can be used by the collective travellers throughout the country. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with both the representative Hoksrud and the representative Wickholm in their observation that it must be voluntary for the travellers if they want to travel anonymously. There must be an opportunity to travel anonymously, as I was inside instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e979	I see this as a natural and important follow-up to the work that was started under the Bondevik II government in this area, and which resulted in the establishment in 2006 of a national standard for electronic ticketing. This standard facilitates the introduction of a new national travel product, for example: a card, which shall enable continuous, seamless journeys on collective means of transport, without the need to resolve a new ticket in the event of an en-route roundabout. I fully agree with the proposers that a central clearing system should be set up so that the transport companies that have introduced electronic ticketing can easily develop new, common travel routes and settle between themselves. As the representatives point out, the new system must be subject to joint central coordination and settlement between operators. Therefore, in 2008, the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the county councils, the Land Association of Transport Companies, the Directorate of Road and the NSB, examined different models of how the current, commercial, technical and administrative tasks could best be carried out and resolved. In the light of the investigation, the Ministry of Transport proposed to allocate funds to the budget for 2009 for the establishment of a single administrative unit for the management of electronic ticketing. The work of establishing the unit is under way, under the direction of representatives of the county councils and with the participation of, among others. Ministry of Transport. The aim is that the basis for establishing the administrative unit should be clear by the end of the year. The proposers believe that it should be mandatory for States and carriers to link themselves to the clearing system. It is not mandatory today to introduce electronic ticketing, but if a company chooses to introduce it, the system shall comply with the national standard. The Ministry of Transport does not propose that it be mandatory to connect to the new unit to manage the systems. I believe it is best in accordance with the division of responsibility we have for public transport, where the county municipalities are responsible for local public transport. In addition, there are several commercial actors. Actors, whether public or commercial, have different needs and economies. I'm afraid that an order that intervenes in the economy of businesses, in the worst cases, can weaken and not strengthen public transport, and is initially sceptical about making it mandatory to introduce electronic ticketing, and to connect to the new administration unit. But I will follow developments in this area carefully and consider follow-up measures if necessary. The representatives are also concerned with privacy and believe that the electronic ticketing system must be voluntary for travellers and that the electronic tracks left by customers must be handled properly. On this occasion, I refer to the National Transport Plan, where the Government has announced that we will develop guidelines for the handling of travel data.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e996	The case rapporteur gave a correct picture of this case and the setting, and said that this is a great deal of agreement. I agree. At the same time, I feel a certain need to state that I have joined this matter with extremely great scepticism. The scepticism applies to what the case rapporteur was also concerned with, namely anonymity and privacy. In that context, I have done some research myself. I've been a little bit calmed down, because even if you get a seamless system, with cards that can be used across state boundaries and across public societies – whether they're public or private – you can create a kind of card that's not directly related to a person. It's a little soothing, and I hope you'll pay attention to it. Then I'm also very much in favour of getting the most effective travel pattern for the traveler. Also for the public transport, with which we are struggling very much, I think this is a grip that will be more effective, and that one will get a better offer for the travellers. I understand those who are concerned – I think we are all – for those who work in the field of public transport, in terms of violence and crime. There are two sides to this. One is that one has to put more effort into fighting crime, and the other is about the cash principle. As the representative tended to do, we think that the cash flow will be significantly less with such a system. But at the same time, it is important to clarify that if you are going to start almost banning the cash principle, you also have to change the currency law, etc., and then I think it will gradually become more complicated. I also fully agree with the Council of State when he confirms the importance of not binding on the new administration unit. It is particularly important for a company, whether commercial or public, to be allowed itself to assess the extent to which it should join such a system. What's important is to make the system so good that more people join. When the government might have to finish this kind of investigation, I think it's everybody's purpose – as I understand it – to put in place a system by the state, without the government necessarily having any ownership in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1007	I am very pleased that the representative Sandberg has doubted that this is correct, and that he also had time to do private research in the area in the middle of a safe trip. So a lot of research was really not going to, because in the letter from the Ministry of Transport dated April 16th, it is quite well clarified and described how it can happen. Electronic tickets will not be so much different from today's tickets. I myself travel with Flexicards around Oslo. Purchased in Narvesen kiosks and elsewhere. I can label that. I buy a ticket for eight trips, but it is not recorded where that ticket is used. It will also be possible within such an electronic system. I am concerned about this eagerness to oblige lone bus drivers and others to keep cash. Although it should never be that small, it's going to be thousands of dollars. It will probably be quite tempting for individuals. It is already the case today that several places in Norway are unable to use cash. I myself lived at Smart Hotel Forus outside Stavanger. There was the principle of a cashless system. You could just use a credit card or put it on the bill. I imagine that it won't be anything fundamentally different to have such a system in the transport sector. I believe that the consideration of bus drivers and other public transport personnel must weigh heavily here. When it is technologically possible to create a system that avoids risk in their jobs, the Stortinget – and other actors – have to go far in order to put in place a system that eliminates this risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1016	I just want to conclude by thanking those who have contributed very useful input into this debate. This is a matter that we in the Left have been working on for a long time. We have had all the thoughts, objections and reflections that I have heard several people have had here today. So this is what we're taking with us in the further work. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Lodve Solholm took over the president's office here. [[Fotation, see page 3136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1035	The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the matter no. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1043	The President proposes that the appointment of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality at the Stockholm meeting on 18 May 2009 on the situation in the field of child protection be recorded in the minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1065	During the debate Arne Sortevik has presented five proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1124	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party It will first be replaced by the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1168	The President has noticed that someone has woken up during the voting. There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Gulli–Langåker and Bomb City–Sky lines on E18 are defined as a single project and are expanded as OPS solution, following the pattern of the previously realised OPS project in Norway.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1188	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in establishing a national electronic ticket offer scheme for seamless public travel throughout the country, in cooperation with the various actors.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26.ana.ud331e1217	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting has been cancelled.
