ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e32	The representative of Trine Skei Grande, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Sigrid Brattabø Handegard, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Ågot Valle on sick leave from 13 January onwards and until further notice from the representatives of Torfinn Opheim, Kari Lise Holmberg and Øystein Djupedal on leave from 14 January until 3 April – all to attend the main course of the Defence College On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland County: Audun Bjørlo Light HillFor Rogaland County: Und Therese O. SørensenFor Telemark County: Torbjørn Røe IsaksenFor South Trondelag County: Ingvild Vaggen MalvikTorbjørn Røe Isaksen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets for the representative of Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e96	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e103	On behalf of Svein Flätten, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Torbjørn Hansen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to facilitate the participation of several employees in my own company.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e108	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e122	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e129	At first sight, someone might think that this is not an important matter, or that it is a matter that does not arouse commitment. It's completely wrong. This is a very important matter. The matter may not be very big, but it concerns a lot of people, and those working on the matter have experienced that this is a very important and big topic. I'm glad we've managed to reach an agreement between all the parties in Stortinget on such a matter, and I'm also very happy that we've managed to get on with the two elements that we've promised. We have worked quite thoroughly on the matter – much more thoroughly than you normally do with a Document No. Eight proposals. We have had a hearing, and we believe that both the professional community and the stakeholders feel that they have had the opportunity to get in touch with the politicians with their arguments. The case concerns the name law. The Name Act is a broad consensus in Stortinget. There is also a broad consensus that we should have a name law, that we should strive for a similar spelling, and that it is important that we have processes around it to spell and write names in the right way in our country. What we're raising in this case is what goes on farm name. There are two elements that we wanted to raise. The first thing is that many people have their names from, for example, a farm. Name, language and identity are closely related to us people. I know a lot of people who have traveled the world to see the place where they have their name. We have many American relatives who each year travel to Norway to see the place from which they have their name. That means that the name and identity are closely linked, and when someone changes it, people also have to feel that the principles of law apply in that area. There is actually a slightly larger framework around this matter. For the Left – and for me as the Left-Representative, who has a lot of linguists in my ranks, I would guess – it has been – since the party was founded 125 years ago – in a few days – that it was important to fight against one discipline having a monopoly on what is right and wrong in relation to the legal perception of society. For me, this is linked to the Left's struggle for an official state to decide, but it is also linked to the thinking around why, for example, we are. shall have a jury in a society, the idea of a single professional group not having a monopoly on what is right in a society. That's why we think it's important to introduce a principle that you should have an appeal where you also have a layman's representation. That means that if you as a professional have very good argument, you should have such a good argument that you should also be able to convince doctors that what you stand for is right. It is important that there is also an independence of name appeals, which means that you also have independence from the subject area. That's the first element right there. The second element is that we open up to keep spelling, because spelling can also tell about the cultural history of a place. It can tell the story of the weird guy, who could be an Erasmus Montanus who chooses to spell his name in a slightly different way because of that or that. It also tells an important cultural history in a place. We asked in the hearing what disaster would occur if we felt that a farm name might be spelled in another way, but we haven't been able to get an overview of whether it would lead to a very major disaster. I think we have to make it clear that cultural history can also be conveyed by the way names are spelled out, and that it is also an important part of our cultural history. But I hope that the Council of State here today can clarify that the most important principle that must first enter is that we get an appeal, a complaint about decisions made in changing farm names, so that people feel that they have a real, fair chance of hearing their case properly. There is a very important legal principle in this case, and I hope the Council of State answers that he will return quite quickly in that regard. Then we get to work on how we can develop a name law that takes care of international conventions and all obligations, but that also allows cultural history to be disseminated through the fact that someone chooses to spell a farm name in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e149	Place names are an important cultural common property, and it is not unreasonable to have laws and regulations that say something about how we as a society should deal with it. But it is also important that we have a law that is balanced and that takes account of them. In this case, we're talking about farm names, and farm names are of course something that also largely concerns those who live on the farm, those who own the farm, and perhaps especially those who carry genealogies that coincide with the farm. We have a long and good tradition that relates to Norwegian farms. It's about identity, it's about strong administrative responsibility, and it's not least about the role of traditional bearer. Most Norwegian farmers do not own their property with the same mentality as many of us who have a house we might easily sell, or from which we move if we change jobs or things like that. Taking over a farm is much more extensive – it's about entering into a role, and it's about carrying something on. It is a strongly felt responsibility, and I believe that the attitude of Norwegian farmers is the most important bearer of the traditions. It has been good Latin in some environments that dialect and dialectic forms should be what you see as the primary bearer of the cultural heritage, not the spelling. This position is probably largely influenced by the national construction project Norway was through in the 1800s and 1900s, where the desire to research spelling in relation to what has thus been a Danish tradition has been stronger than perhaps the cultural heritage perspective itself. I agree with the rapporteur's remarks that spelling also says something about the cultural heritage and the history we've been through, and that it must be important to take it further. Managing a name is also part of the exercise of ownership, and ownership is deep in the Norwegian agricultural tradition. Controlling their property is the prerequisite for feeling the responsibility and administrative responsibility of culturally as well as any interference with ownership should be particularly well justified. There shall be overriding social, practical or cultural needs to be met in order to do so. It's hard to see that the restrictions that the Cartwork has, or what the public here is doing, are really well-founded, especially if we look forward to the future, when we want to see that the very nation-building considerations that we've been basing ourselves on may not be as strong. Those who have fought this matter have worked for many years. This has been a very stressful matter for someone who has changed their farm names away from what has been the spelling of the genus. This has been a great burden. They are certainly pleased that we are hopefully coming up with rules that will safeguard these concerns in the future as well. But they themselves have complaints that are pending. I hope that the Council of State and the Ministry will help to put these matters on ice now pending new rules, and that during the review process they will be able to be assessed on the basis of the new rules we will receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e162	Names and city names are very important for the identity of many people. In that context, I end up with what both the case spokesperson and the Olemic Thommessen said. When we know what commitment lies behind this with city names, I'm going to use the opportunity to praise the committee to get some comments that are so open that all groupings could stand behind them. In view of the importance of this theme for too many places, this is well done. I can say that because I wasn't at the end of the committee. Locally inherited pronunciation is usually the oldest and rightmost. There is a lot of interesting literature on the subject city name. It's enough to mention "Norwegian Gardsnamene", a piece of actually 20 volumes. Other countries envy us this. Here you can find pronunciation, older forms of writing and interpretation. In our day, city names are often taught on the basis of road signs, not just local tradition. Therefore, proper names of road signs are crucial. From our own counties, More and Romesdal, we have experienced great commitment to changing the names of holiday resorts. I think back to the time when the local government decided this on its own – as the youngest representative and with a surname that is the same as a previous vacation rental – put that debate in mind. The theme was whether the name of the rental should be after the location not far away, or whether it should be the local name of the location. The local name was won. So it was, and so it has our side. Corrections may result in changes and unsolicited forms. Normalisation is problematic when a measure disappears. Normalization may, in some circumstances, go across the original. Then the history of the dialect is destroyed. The comment on the subject of complaints is also important in this context. A relationship this representative proposal is visible is in the sense that there is a desire for different types of use of the garden in a multi-garden area, as it often is. This can give challenges in several areas, such as building-booking, genealogical testing, road signs and mapping. On a standard map, it will e.g. no space for several modes of writing where three-four-garden are even-sided. Which form of the name should be selected? Who will decide this? The conflict around city names is likely to have facilitated the state itself, as one has normalized across the board. It is to be hoped that the elements of this matter, and the signals given in this debate, will provide the ministry with a good basis for improving the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e181	I thought the case spokesperson in a forward-looking way was doing well for the meaning of this law and the commitment the Committee has experienced both from the professional community and from the parties it is applying locally around the country. I'm just going to do the right thing for the Center Party's involvement in this matter. First of all, the Central Party believes that there should actually be room for local interests to be taken care of by the law of the day by the name. But we've seen some examples that the action space isn't being used, and the landowners feel that they haven't been heard. The body of the centre is constantly underpinning the preparation of the 2005 amending law and the processing of it in this room, where the scope of the current form of writing is taken into account. We think that a name introduced at a later historical time than original, also has a cultural value. At the same time, we do not want to open up to change garden names only based on a request from the owner. Paragraph 3 shall remain in force, but where a requested type of writing is changed, this shall not be done without the consent of the owner of the grounds. I am pleased that a joint committee is behind the vote, and I look forward to the Government returning to Stortinget with one thing in the pact with the committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e194	The type of place names has the ability to engage. Ten years after the City Name Act was adopted in Stortinget, an evaluation of the law was launched and a revised law was passed as late as 2005. In February last year, representatives of big business Øyvind Halleraker and Olemic Thommessen presented a proposal for a representative in which they agreed that the change of usernames could not happen without the agreement of the landowner. The proposal provided the basis for a long and thorough discussion, in which the Ministry has also participated through two letters to the Committee of 5 and 29 May 2008 respectively. At the heart of the issue has been whether the rules on the writing of farm and farm names can be softened, while maintaining cultural memory in a good way. Strong signals have long been received from farm animals who have experienced that the farm or farm name has been changed in such a way that it no longer corresponds to the spelling of the genealogy name. It is appropriate to ask whether it is at all a public task to provide rules on how to write the name of private property. When, in 2005, a unanimous committee voted in favour of the present system, which is based on the inherited local opinion, it was because farm and farm names are of more than private interest. They are part of our common intangible cultural heritage that the public has a legitimate interest in caring for, and they are linguistic memories of older and younger times. Some farm names are the oldest town names in the country. But the name of private property is not just a public joint ownership. It's also important for the owner and the family. The forms of names established in the light of the legislation adopted in 2005 have created frustration among some landowners. I'm glad that just before Christmas we got a unanimous position from the Culture Committee on this matter. In a matter like this, the importance of cultural protection and the interests of landowners in different directions, it is an added strength that we find common solutions across the party groups. In the nomination, the Committee signals that it considers it necessary to investigate and amend the law, so that the requirement that the names should comply with the applicable spelling principles shall not apply to the farm/username itself, and that the requirement for uniform spelling in different functions is deleted. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the view of the owners of the land should be given particular importance in the definition of the farm name and the use of the land. The discussion has undoubtedly shown the need to soften the legislation. The cultural memory aspect of a site name is not just a specific pronunciation or spelling. It is the name as a whole, in its context and linguistic development, with understanding, content and use, which constitutes a cultural memory. Public use of geographical names helps to preserve the names, and it is important that the forms of names convey the meaning of the name and work as best as possible in a practical context. At the same time, it is important that the names have a form that people recognize and enjoy. I therefore support the changes proposed in the vote. The Committee's observations will normally be followed up by the Ministry through investigation and consultation before returning to the Stortinget with a legislative amendment proposal. As part of the debate on the method of writing farm and usernames, questions have also been asked about the composition of the complaint topic for place names. I have noticed that the Committee considers it necessary to have a broader composition of the subject of the complaint in order to ensure a good handling of complaints, including: representation of the layman. The question of the composition of the complaint subject is regulated in the form of a regulation, and thus there is no need for a legislative change at this point. The Ministry will, as soon as practicable, follow up the Committee's comments by means of a regulatory amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e212	I am pleased that the Government and government parties have had a constructive approach to this matter. I am also pleased that the Council of State is now responding to our common comments. So now a group of landowners have complaints. It has been a long and quite thorny road, and it may be that these cases also end up in the courts. I do not think that would be particularly useful either for the matter or, in particular, for those concerned. I wonder if the Council of State will take any initiative – or if at least he would like to appeal to the Cartel – to put these complaints on ice, so that the complaints can be seen in the light of the new rules that are now likely to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e221	I feel confident that the Cartwork has read the Committee's position, that they are going to follow the debate today carefully, that they are aware that there are changes going on, and that the Complaint Topic can also be changed quickly. So I think that the signal from the representative Olemic Thommess, to which I would like to join, that one should show restraint in dealing with the matter until one has had changes in place, is followed up by the Cartwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e227	No more words have been asked for a line. – The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e232	I will be brief, because this is a matter that now falls well into place. But I just want to make a little comment about the Central Party posts. It surprised me a little, because the representative Lode said that he thought that today's legislation is really quite good, and that there should be room in today's legislation to meet the interests of this matter. Now it is such that this case that has now been raised, and the comments in the setting, actually show a different solution. It's not a small correction we're talking about right now – it's actually a completely different thought that's at stake, and it's quite different from what's in today's law. After the Central Party's contributions, I find reason to stress that point, because the very ownership perspective in this is actually a rather important element, which I had also expected the Center Party had – let's say – stood up for in relation to the experience we have now had with the specific issues underlying this proposal. We don't have to go up a big debate about this, but I think it's important to establish that perspective. There is also reason to stress that our common comments actually sprung out a different course from that of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e241	Finally, as rapporteur-in-Office, I just want to make some comments. First of all, I want to say that I am very pleased with the statements of the Council of State, and that's not how often I am, so that's why I feel the need to comment when it happens. I think the post was both precise and good, and that it carried out the committee's work very well. But what I think it's important to stress here is that today we have raised a particular farm name – that doesn't mean that there is a majority in this room who want to remove the name law. That's what I think it's important to note, because it's actually those who are happy in a law, who are going to reform a law. The resistance that was building up in connection with the abuses that people felt that this law led to them as individuals, I actually agree to undermine the whole process of thinking about having a name law. If we do not get, who is concerned about having a name law, to reforms that meet the citizens who feel drawn by a law, we are also involved in undermining the law. Ivar Aasen once said it something like this: we think it should go on so fast with something big, but as soon as something big is reached, something small is coming quickly. It's probably a little bit about taking some big steps to sort things out. But it is the small citizens who get bored, you have to take into account and change the law because when we see it going in the wrong direction. Here I believe that the Storting has taken a large national action that for some people will have consequences that feel unfair. Then we have to correct the course to those who feel that it will be unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e252	I should try to avoid making this a parade up and down of the pulpit. I just feel the need to admit that I am completely in agreement with Olemic Thommess in what he is saying here, that hopefully this is a very clear improvement when we see what the government is coming back with. I tried to express a kind of disappointment, because when I went through the pre-work for the previous law change, I could clearly see that it was a point for the Stortinget to put particular emphasis on the landowner's point of view, and that there should not be any change without there being completely precarious arguments and reasons for it. So what I said was more of an expression that the practice that we have could be in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e259	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1786]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e277	Welfare is about balancing differences between different groups in society. Student welfare is about being able to take on higher education by anyone who wants to. Student welfare is the life around the studies and what it takes for a student to cope with the study. The quality reform in higher education was carried out with, inter alia: the purpose of ensuring a better flow in higher education and, if possible, repatriation of the full-time student. There shall be closer follow-up of individual, stronger feedback along the way and more mandatory education. This is a very important reform, both in terms of the quality of the knowledge that each student is left with after completion of education, and in terms of getting the most out of work in a normal time. However, I believe that there is a common problem with all the reforms that we adopt and implement, that they aim to achieve a greater degree of efficiency. We easily forget that not everyone fits into a streamlined template. Life is changing, and the assumptions you have in meeting the studies may also change. It's important that we be able to create systems that capture the individual and that are as flexible as possible. In this way, we can make sure that everyone has equal rights to education. Unfortunately, students' rights in the event of illness are poor and very little flexible. It is given, for example: today only 4 and 1/2 months of illness per year. After the interpellation was written, new rules have now been put in place for redundancy payments, adopted by the Stortinget on 15 December 2008. In principle, redundancy pay «can be given to students who need active treatment in order to resume their studies». The question then is what kind of offer comes to students who are too sick to take education, but who at the same time need more rest and health from illness than active rehabilitation. Will they then be completely without support? It is also assumed that the redundancy allowance is provided to those who must ‘have their working capacity reduced by at least half and who need active treatment or job-oriented measures’. Many students will not meet this criterion, as they are often only ill without being actively treated. Another element is that it is also not possible for a student to be part-time sick or to go on active health care. In order to receive sick leave, one must be completely out of the study. This means that you have to be unable to attend education, to study at home, to deliver tasks or to take part in exams at the time you are ill. This may result in unnecessary delays and lack of completion of studies. In addition, it is contradictory to the principle that individuals should try to be active even under disease. I think that if we had gained a greater degree of flexibility here, more students could avoid unnecessary loss of time. For some students it would be possible to complete parts of the study if the conditions were to be facilitated. In the choice between economic recovery and implementation of study elements, the choice may not be very difficult. The option becomes a break when contact with the environment disappears, and the start phase after fresh communication becomes tough. The longer you're away from the study, the harder it gets to follow up on what you ended up getting sick. These lack of rights can create a very difficult additional burden for students, namely economic concerns. When, in addition to dealing with a disease situation, which may be burdensome in itself, one also has to struggle to get the ends to meet, the load on a vulnerable group becomes extra large. If you first get sick in a study situation, you have a limited safety net compared to employees. In the worst cases, problems in maintaining the study progress over a period of illness may lead to the loss of the right to study. This concerns, among other things: the lack of competence in the provision of treatment and the special situation of students. It is essential that students have easy access to a treatment provision aimed at restoring the normal study situation, if possible, and as quickly as possible. Lack of study rights also means losing the right to receive redundancy benefits in order to return to the studies. The rules on redundancy pay specify that only students should be able to receive redundancy pay in order to resume the study. Then we have a problem, because «student» is a fixed definition in the law, and if you lose the right to study, you may also lose the right to support. I therefore believe that there is a need to clarify the concept of ‘student’ in the law, and that it must be possible to define as a student even if you lose the right to study temporarily as a result of illness. The provision of health services in student relationships is a very low threshold offer, as well as a very large number of students. It also makes it most appropriate for students to be associated with the fixed medical system. I think there may be a need to assess whether the host municipalities should be responsible for providing a more comprehensive healthcare service to all students living in the municipality under education. It should include, in addition to medical treatment, mental health services. We have to make sure that the student figures are also included in the financing of the fixed medical system if they are not already. Training institutions should continue to be able to provide a health and advisory service through interconnections. We know it from previous debates here in the Chamber is of varying quality at the different places of study, and it will be important for this group. Norwegian Student Union often meets these issues through their ombudsman role for students. An example that NSU has received is a student who got sick in the middle of the study, and who, in short, did not qualify for any kind of public assistance. The student got sick in November and worked to get money from Nav for a year. After waiting a long time for the proceedings and having been expected to meet the criteria for rehabilitation money, the applicant received a final rejection. It was clear that it was not about the proceedings, but about the legislation. That is why I believe it is our duty to change the legislation so that students actually have good and predictable rights in the event of illness. There are different measures that can be taken to provide greater flexibility and better conditions for sick students. First, students should be able to get sick money from the Loan Fund for the first year they are ill, on the basis of the rates of popular security. I mentioned that someone from the Loan Fund has the right to a maximum of four and a half months of sickness benefit. But you must have been sick at the beginning of the semester in order to have the right to receive support. In addition, you do not have the right to support from the Loan Fund. After that, you can apply for redundancy benefits, but this is more adapted to get to work than to complete an education. Many students will also not meet the criterion that active treatment or job-oriented measures are needed. The consequence will be that there will be no support other than social assistance. It will also be essential for institutions and the Loan Fund to show flexibility in relation to sick students, so that not all scholarships disappear if you are able to take some credits while you are ill. Secondly, students need to be provided with the necessary information about their rights in the event of illness. There should be a separate office at which the students can contact the relevant educational institution. One example is that a student called Nav, who gave a clear message that they didn't know about the student's rights. Much of the information is good where you have a well-developed student health service, which really means Oslo. Here are the doctors experts on student-related plagues. I believe that the educational institutions should have the same responsibility for their students as an employer has for his employees. I have previously addressed the situation of students who have had children or are waiting for children in their studies, and for students with mental health problems. Today, there's the situation for students who experience getting sick at study time, I'm taking it up. The common denominator for all three cases is that the system is not too flexible. Now we've started the job of improving the conditions for students in connection with pregnancy. I hope that this interpellation could help make everyday life easier for students who get sick during their studies. The aim must be that no student should have concerns related to his/her everyday study life, either because of physical or mental distress. What will the Council of State do to give better rights to students in the event of illness?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e326	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, addresses key questions in his interview. I am grateful for her commitment to the well-being of the students. The issues are no less central in that the problems referred to concern schemes in two departments — the sickness insurance scheme in my department, the Ministry of Knowledge, and the rehabilitation scheme in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. I have therefore been in contact with the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on this matter. One of the main objectives of the training support scheme through the Loan Fund is to facilitate equal opportunities for education, irrespective of its functioning and social conditions. The scheme contains several measures to facilitate, inter alia: students who fall ill shall be able to complete the training. Support may be granted in excess of the maximum number of years in general and students who are delayed in education because of illness may be extended for a period of time with support for delay beyond the general limit of one year. Students who have been ill may also be entitled to an extension of the right to convert loans to courses for semesters where they have received medical treatment. The sickness insurance scheme through the Loan Fund grants the right to convert loans into scholarships if the trainee becomes ill during the training period. There are some conditions attached to the scheme, including: there is a requirement for the student to be completely unemployed during the period of illness, as the representative Eriksen states. Furthermore, it is a requirement that the student does not receive benefits from popular security. The reason for having a systolic scheme in the funding of studies is to prevent the accumulation of debt for those who become ill in the course of training and, for this reason, are unable to maintain normal study progress. The disease can delay the student's education and compensate the student for the increased absorption of the loan. The requirement for the student to be completely out-of-school during the period of illness in order to receive medical treatment has also attracted attention in the media. It has been pointed out that students who fail to cope with full study progress during periods due to illness but still produce a certain number of study points during the period have financial uncertainty and problems with greater debt burden due to delay. It has been shown that, for example: may relate to mentally ill students who are unable to complete their studies and who are partially sick. In some cases, students with mental illness will be able to attend lectures and provide written work, but without being able to document this in terms of study credits. Furthermore, it is often problematic for students with mental illness to obtain evidence of the actual period of illness, because, for example: cannot be specified at a specific time when the suffering was such that the student could no longer study or because the student is seeking help after the period of illness. At present, there is no compensation scheme in the Loan Fund to ensure that students who are partially out of school do not get more debt than others at the end of their education. There is likely to be a group of students who, due to partial illness, are struggling with the maintenance of adequate study progress and, as a result, incur a higher debt burden. According to the Loan Fund, some of these students adapt to the legislation by reducing the study burden, i.e. that they enter part-time training. In this way, they avoid delay and ensure continued support from the Loan Fund. On the other hand, the monthly grant will be reduced accordingly, and these students will have to finance the part of the living that is not covered by the Loan Fund, by other means, in some cases with benefits from popular security. The training aid is part of the framework to contribute to the independence of education, e.g.: functionality. I see that there may be reason to consider how the group of those who are partially out of study, without at the same time falling under social security, is being protected in today's health insurance scheme. The group of mentally ill students is likely to be represented among these. In a previous interview with the representative Dagrun Eriksen last April on mental health among students, welfare measures such as good health services through student relations were highlighted as important prevention measures, which the representative himself was also concerned with. In this context, the training aid scheme must be seen as the economic safety net enabling training to be completed when disease has an impact on the study progress. It may also be of some importance when starting training, knowing that there are schemes in the Loan Fund that will facilitate the possibility of completing education even in-flight. I fully agree with the representative Dagrun Eriksen that good information must be essential for students in such situations. We should all be able to contribute to this. Rehabilitation funds may be provided to persons who have been continuously at least 50 pst. unemployed for at least 52 weeks. It is a condition that active treatment is ongoing with a view to improving working capacity. From 2002, a special scheme was introduced for young students with a serious illness so that rehabilitation benefits can be provided immediately after the end of the period of disease prevention. The scheme applies to young people with serious illness, e.g.: cancer or mental illness. The background to the age limit for this derogation being set at 26 years is that most people would then have been able to complete a normal education. In addition, it was considered appropriate to have the same age limit as elsewhere in the social security system for special benefits for young people. The introduction of redundancy benefits, which are intended to replace the benefits of rehabilitation, re-employment and temporary unemployment benefits, improves the interaction between the education support scheme and the population’s benefits for students who fall ill during the course of education. The current general rule on one-year waiting period in order to receive rehabilitation money is not proposed. As a result, for students who are not entitled to sickness benefits, or who are only entitled to low sickness benefits, the waiting time is significantly reduced from the time when the student no longer has the right to benefit from the Loan Fund sickness insurance scheme. This conversion will also lead to students with less serious illness than, for example, cancer or mental illness is entitled to temporary benefits for the purpose of living through social security without undue delay. It is further clarified that redundancy benefits can be provided to students who need active treatment in order to be able to resume their studies. In this context, an assessment of the continuation of the training which the student has commenced, interrupted by illness, will be considered as an action necessary and appropriate for the applicant to achieve the objective of work. When criticising the social arrangements through the Loan Fund, there is usually a lack of flexibility and discretion in individual matters it is pointed out, as we have also heard in this interview. It is often the case that the legislation does not open up to discretion. The idea of a predictable and simple regulatory framework to be managed efficiently, equally and fairly in a mass management operation operated by the Loan Bank makes it problematic to have a higher degree of discretionary use. Legislation must be designed to strike a reasonable balance between general schemes for many and special schemes for the few. The Ministry of Knowledge is monitoring the functioning and interaction of the disease prevention system and other social schemes in the framework of the study finance legislation. I would therefore like to assess the need for regulatory adjustments in order to maintain this balance between study progress requirements and the different needs for organisation that should exist in order for a group of students to be able to carry out their studies on equal terms. We are currently making such assessments in preparation for the 2010 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e358	I thank you for your answer. I think the State Council of Aasland both in this and in other matters has taken student welfare seriously. She has been willing to address the issues that concern individuals, and to see if changes can be made to the legislation. I am also pleased with the positive response from the Council of State. I believe that assessing partial study disability and the ability to maintain activity is important, especially in the case of mental illness, as the Council of State said. However, even in other cases of disease, starting with gradual activity may be crucial for getting back. So it's especially important to have sliding transitions, from being completely on. This is seen in all other legislation and in all other support schemes. The doctors also say that this is important to get people back in a good way, and to be able to start. Not everyone is able to start 100 pst. from day one, to look at the inability to study in parallel is very important. It will always be a problem to manage to make good general arrangements and at the same time make sure that we seal the holes for those who fall through. I believe that in this area you need to make it more flexible, because life is not always effective, simple and fair. Sometimes things happen that don't make it feel effective, simple and fair, and that make us need a code that closes up, but we don't have to hang around. There's one group I didn't mention in my first post, and it's disabled and chronically ill. The provision of universal design and the organisation of education for this group will be particularly important. We know that there are variations between educational institutions and also within individual institutions. I believe that assessing support schemes for this particular group will be important. Now we have a lot of professional responses to this group, but we also need an increased focus on study-oriented interventions for people with chronic disease or disability. Getting equal rights to education must not lead to, for example: Disabled and chronically ill will be left with higher study debts than others. It would have been interesting to see, through a study, whether it is actually such that people with disabilities or chronic illness through their studies are going to get worse out than other students in terms of economics – it could be anything from waiting for study material to lack of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e371	I would argue that there have been significant improvements in the follow-up of students from the Quality Reform introduced in 2002. By means of joint assistance and effort, we have tried to reach out to those who still have problems with the legislation we have, and now we are trying another important thing, namely to achieve the best possible coordination between the different legislations, that is. in the case of social security schemes and everything relating to sickness, health and well-being in general in the population, and in the case of students. The goal is that all students who start a study should be able to do so, even if they have to get sick along the way. At the same time, as the representative also understands, we have a little different challenges in the relationship between a general regulatory framework, which is the mortgage law, and the more specific legislation we have in the area of health and disease. But through our interactions, we have a good system in this country to both inform and facilitate the provision of good welfare services to students. I would also like to point out the law now in force from the turn of the year on anti-discrimination, which concerns the group to which the representative Eriksen points, namely disabled people. It is now an important task for all places of study to facilitate not only physically, but also, for example: in the case of examinations, and in the case of completion of studies for students with disabilities who have a documented need for special arrangements. So here it's -- slowly but surely -- a good improvement in the situation of the about 1,200 students that this is all about at any time. It is a small part of all students, but it is a very important challenge and task both for government and for universities and for interactions that conditions are facilitated so that students can complete their studies without losing compared to other students. I want to do what I can to improve the regulation so that there is good coordination between the Loan Fund's legislation and health and social legislation, and I also want to do my best to inspire and motivate both universities, colleges and relations to do their part of this important welfare job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e384	First, I want to take the opportunity to commend the representative Dagrun Eriksen for a great and important commitment to the student's well-being and health. In the past, the representative has focused on mental health in an interpellation here in Stortinget. Being a student is a temporary situation in life. A lot of people are jumping into adult life, with a regular job, a rowhouse, a trailer and everything else that goes with it. For many it is enough to be a student primarily associated with freedom. To some extent, you control your own time. If you want to work outside the night and sleep outside the day, no one refuses to do so. I'm sure many people will meet the reality of the April to May door as exams approach storm krit. For most, the study period is a period you look back at as associated with joy, party and fun, although many enough memory days and weeks with noodles and ketchup after the last remnants of loans and scholarships were spent on liters of beer and wine at the student bar. But for others, life can be turned down overnight as a result of a serious illness or accident. Only in the last year have I been contacted by several people who have come up in such situations. First of all, it shows that we have good safety nets in the education support system, because people expect that there are solutions for just those there. In many cases it does, too. But second, it shows that there is a need for a review of all the systems associated with disease in the middle of the study period. The cases I have heard have been changes in the functioning of e.g.: a traffic accident. For those who are close to a bachelor's degree or a master's degree, and who have had plans to go to work only six months after the accident, it feels unfair to be left with a disability calculated on the income as a student, especially if they have previously been out of work and have started a further education. The aim of the training aid through the Loan Fund is to give everyone equal rights to education regardless of their ability to function. Today, there are many measures to enable students who get sick to complete their education. To name a few, support beyond the maximum number of years in force, i.e. beyond eight years, and students who are delayed in education because of illness, may be extended with support for delay beyond the general limit of one year. Students who get sick can also have loans converted into scholarships for the period they have received. When life is turned upside down, the system may feel unfair and difficult to get into, which is completely understandable. It may be difficult to identify in the jungle of overlapping legislation that crosses each other – such as the system of popular protection and the special legislation for students. The interpellant focused on schemes that apply to students over 26 years of age who do not fall under the criteria of rehabilitation, temporary disability or rehabilitation if they become ill during the study period. I'm going to ask the Council to take a special look at this. According to the 2005 Living Conditions Survey, the average age of students is now 28 years. The age structure of those benefiting from the Loan Fund has changed in the last ten years. The age group of students under the age of 25 is slightly reduced, while the age group of students over the age of 30 has increased. This shows that students are a complex group with many different needs. There is a lack of flexibility and application of discretion in some cases in the work of the Loan Fund. But, as the Council of State said, in an administration such as the Loan Fund, with a predictable and simple regulation to be managed effectively, where everyone is to be treated equally and fairly, it will be difficult to exercise discretion. In Norway, we have safety nets that capture our citizens if anything goes wrong. I believe this is one of the most important things in the Norwegian welfare model. Especially in the case of the weakest, we should be on guard and ensure that no one falls between two chairs. The legislation on the rights of students in the event of sickness is complex. I see clear challenges in today's system related to the issues addressed by the interpellant, and I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e407	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. After all, student support and the framework around students are in many ways the backbone of our higher education system, precisely because no one should be prevented from taking higher education on the basis of the economic situation. There is a broad political consensus that it is important to facilitate all students to complete their education. There are a lot of students who don't entirely think about what arrangements are there, until they're in the middle of it and need some of the arrangements that are there. We're going to have good arrangements to ensure that students who are affected by disease in the course of the studies are well-financially assured. We have a more complex and different student mass now than before, and it also has to be taken into account by the support schemes. In the context of the 2002 State Budget, the Law on Social Security was amended so that long-term ill students were also covered by the rules on rehabilitation money. The rules were, as the interpellant pointed to in its interpellation, by a broad majority of the Stortinget limited to students under the age of 26. There is also a requirement for 20 weeks' incapacity for work. Otherwise, the rules have been that disability must have lasted 52 weeks. The age limit of 26 years was justified by the fact that most people are expected to have completed their education at the age of 26 years, and also in order to ensure harmony in the system, because there is the same age limit as elsewhere in the social security system for special benefits for young people. The aim of the 2002 Decision was to put in place a targeted action to improve the economic situation of young people who become seriously ill. But as I was about a little bit earlier, the student mass is very different now. It's much more heterogeneous, especially in relation to age. We start studying later, we learn more, and we have a completely different family situation and other things that make the students today different from before. The normal student really doesn't exist anymore. Another aspect that is important to think about in this context is that we go into recession, which means that more and more people who are well over 26 years of age are likely to apply to higher education to re-school. That means we're going to get more into higher education institutions that exceed the age limit of 26. Just before Christmas, the labour and social committee Ot.prp. No 4 on the law on amendments to the Law on Social Security and in some other laws. It was decided that the former social security benefits, rehabilitation benefits, re-employment benefits and temporary unpaid pay should be replaced by a new time-limited security of income. It was also decided to use systematic work performance assessments as a tool and method to clarify the needs of users for labour-oriented assistance. The aim is to facilitate the early and closer follow-up of the recipient and thus to speed up the return to work or work. As the Council of State was in, the one-year waiting period was removed. Then there was no need to continue special rules for students. But that means that work clearance money can now also be given to students. The interpellant points out in its interpellant that the goal must be that no student should have concerns about his or her everyday study, either because of physical or mental distress. I'm not sure if we'll ever get there completely, but we can at least try to make everyday life easier for students who get sick. Then there's a point that the interpellant mentions, that today you have to be 100 pst. study abroad in order to comply with the rules. Nor does it harmonize very well with what is happening in the workplace, because, as far as possible, you are seeking to exploit the residual working capacity, that is to say, to exploit the potential working capacity you have. And the situation is that students — to a very different degree from other workers — who get sick are likely to adapt their study arrangements to delay them. They are delayed in the studies because they cannot get benefits that make sure they are gone and healthy over a shorter period of time. Instead, they get a longer course of disease, and they're gone longer. It is poor social economy that we set up schemes that require students – without a specific plan – to extend their study cycle significantly. Therefore, it makes sense to look at these rules, so that students should be able to get support even when they are not 100 pst. ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed In the end, I would also like to mention, when we talk about student welfare, that the student health services of the Student Society are an important area to bet on. The right-hand side proposed to grant $3 million. additional to that during the examination of the budget. We ask the Council of State to look in particular at the rules currently in force, where many interactions are struggling to obtain normal operating and contractual conditions with regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e428	I would like to start by giving honor to the interpellant to address important problem settings – and never stop doing so. In its articles, the Council of State has done some good for both the Lånekassa schemes and the borderline of the legislation, in particular the social security legislation. In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has done some good for the decisions that were taken in the previous enlargement period, under the previous government. So here we should have all the facts on the table. Let me start by saying that I think it is very good that the Council of State makes such a clear statement that the Government will consider the need for adjustments, and that the particular circumstances of those who are partially out of study are drawn up. Because it is such a high political goal that everyone should have the opportunity to take education, we in Norway have a very good system of study welfare and other forms of support. Of course, the relationships and the Loan Box are the most central ones here. I would like to say that this is about politics. We should not go back further than to the treatment of the law on student relations to see that there are also political differences with regard to this, and we think of the proposals that the Progress Party is making in this matter. So it's about politics. That's why a drawing has some grips in this accumulation period. It's e.g. adjustments made to the regulations for students with children. But I understand that there are some political parties that aren't always quite in place in relation to this. Several have indicated that students are a composite group, and that there is a group that is changing, and has changed in recent years. The average age is now 28 years. A report that came a few years ago shows that among students, there is a greater proportion of people who have poor mental health, whether they can use it over time, than in people else. The fact that students get older also means that there are more young people. There should be no doubt that when the student group changes, the legislation also needs to change. I want to say it so strongly that nothing must be allowed to challenge the idea that these schemes are, above all, there to ensure equal rights to education. I believe we have all been contacted by individuals who have learned that the legislation either stands in the way of political intentions, or that the exercise of judgement – or perhaps the lack of discretion – has not been in line with the objective that the scheme aims to ensure that everyone is able to study. Of course, we understand all the need for delimitation to the rest of the legislation in relation to effective management, but I think it is good that the interpellant addresses the questions she raises today, and that the council responds in the way she does. That means that here we have a dynamic relationship with the regulation, and that none of us perceives that the code is written in stone. In SV, there's a very big commitment to these questions. One of the ways that a person can do so is: look at all the amendments that have been tabled as proposals for work programmes, which our national meeting will adopt in March. When you look at the gender distribution both in the hall and among those who took part in this debate, I have to lean on a point that has nothing to do with the matter, but that is in itself a good argument for why we don't have to sleep compared to getting more women into politics: think of all the important things that wouldn't be taken up if it weren't for women! So let me use that as a starting point to once again say thank you to the interpellant to address this question. I'm not going to say that it necessarily has something to do with the gender of the interpellant, but I want to say that this seems to me to be very important. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the good signals she gave in her answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e445	It's been an interesting round. I want to return a part of the rose to the members of the committee in the Chamber today and to the Council of State to both have the ability to work on major issues such as quality reform and other matters and also to drop down a little to see how Ola student and Kari student actually manage to conduct the studies – and especially for those who know that life is going a little backside. To the representative Ljunggren I must say that I knew myself again in relation to noodles and ketchup – even though I have a little real compensation in the pub with beer and wine. I guess several of us have had that experience. Obviously, if, in addition to a tight economic situation that students experience, the situation gets worse because of illness, the worry is more than just that you can afford noodles and ketchup – it's going to be very hard to make this happen. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we manage to get some security networks that make good arrangements when things go wrong. It's probably often that for those of us who have experienced such things, it feels very normal that things go wrong, and that the system around is incredibly difficult. That's when you needed not to fight the system. I think that's important to everyone, especially when you're experiencing illness. With regard to the introduction to Eriksen Soreide, it also shows what the Council of State had to say, namely that there is a need for information. I know that there is a desire from the communication to have a kind of office system, which allows them to have the answers and help through the system, so that it should not be up to the individual. I ask the Council of State to evaluate, in cooperation with the communication, how we can achieve such a good order. The students are a complex group, and there are many challenges. It is demanding to have flexible enough legislation. There are at least two concrete things I could imagine asking the Council to consider. One is to follow this with the rules on redundancy and how the new schemes turn out, especially for students. I am pleased with the reduced waiting time, but it is a challenge, as I mentioned in my post, in terms of the definition of ‘student’. If you have lost your right to study because of temporary illness and are not defined as a student, you lose the right to work relief. It should be considered whether the student can be defined even if the student's support has been temporarily lost. Finally, I am pleased that you, regardless of gender, have been involved in the debate. We still have a problem to do, and I'm going to be a little ‘nag wound’ in this field in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e458	It's a fact that the number of students has increased significantly in recent decades. It's an equally undisputed fact that we want it to be like this. We also want people to take higher education in the future. Therefore, it is important that we recognise that the student population is a complex group, and that we also recognise, which was quite rightly mentioned, that the average age of the student is now several times higher than it was before. We also know that many students have family and are in different situations than a single youth. What is important to me in thinking about student schemes is to take account of these demographic trends, but also to take on me – and the rest of the Government – that we have a challenge in terms of, for example, the issue. prevalence of mental disorders in the general population, among young people in particular, but also among students. Studies have shown that many students are struggling in this area. This background step makes me say that there are some things we especially need to follow up. As the inter-pellant and others who have made contributions here have underlined, we need to improve the coordination of benefits through the social security system and benefits provided through the Loan Fund, for example. medically supported. That's the one. There is a need to be able to cooperate across departments, across borders, but it is an important and necessary challenge for any authority. The second is perhaps a special assessment of the somewhat strict conditions that must be in a system to facilitate general schemes, as the Loan Fund does. I'm thinking in particular about the condition of being completely out of study, and you can't see any possible flexibility in that there's a lot of people who are part-time students. There's been an important eye-opener for many with mental disorders, because there's a disorder that can just lead to something you can do, but maybe not do everything at the rate and extent provided for. So these relationships I'll follow closely. As I said in my post, we are working on this, also in connection with the preparation of the 2010 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e467	Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e473	The size should then vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e491	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-13.ana.ud2300e513	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
