ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e80	They called the alternates, for Sogn and Fjordane counties Knut Magnus Olsen and for Eastfold County John Thune, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e94	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting, if necessary, be suspended at 9 p.m. 13.45 for Stortinget's Christmas ounce and set again at 1.45 p.m. 4:00 p.m. for tonight's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e108	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e124	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e156	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e172	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6, 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole and consider it to be adopted. [[See page 1249]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e212	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e223	Aristotle has said, "The goal of work is to win leisure time." That's probably ironic, but it's going to be wrong. The aim of work is to create values for ourselves, for the company, for the nation and for the world. The diversity perspective, which industry in Norway represents, can be illustrated by the fisherman and the many thousands who have their livelihoods from the fishing industry along our coast, or from the many tens of thousands of farmers who pick up their incomes by using the soil, from the dairy farmer on the Jären to those who produce Norwegian Chevre to a global market from a small irony in Haukligrend. Every day, diligent hands and wise heads make sure that we produce and send environmentally friendly electricity around thousands of homes and businesses. Every day, some people make sure that we use the energy and have the world's most efficient production line to produce goods the world's demand, whether they be metals, fertilisers or cement. Competence environments are constantly addressing new challenges for us and creating opportunities, not least in the offshore sector. I can't understand how drilling crowns can snorkel like an eel, but I record that Norwegian knowledge and technology has got it done. Thanks to this amazing technology, oil companies today can control depths, pressures and temperatures that we didn't think were possible a few years ago. Norway as a space country is not as well-known, but the environment is all over the country. There are knowledge environments that every day develop technology and communication, so that we can soon do what we want in the atmosphere, a technology that includes: monitoring our marine areas and discovering even the thinnest oil film. Medical progress is fast. In Norway, medical nutrient clusters are emerging, nutrient clusters where ni-time research is used for the industrialisation and production of new drugs. The medicine becomes more accessible and allows us to treat new forms of disease and suffering. That's our strength, and that's our opportunity. In September 2009 was over 97 pst. by the labour force in Norway employed. It stands as the symbol of the interaction between the private sector and the public sector, and not least workers who see the benefits of safe jobs. The diversity is our strength, but it's also a challenge. The challenge is that industrial policy must reflect diversity. The diversity perspective is strong in the budget we are now considering – the instruments, the leadership and the support of the Norwegian business community. It's about transfers to agriculture. It is about support schemes and devices for industry and business. It is about the sustainable management of fish resources. We have different support schemes, not only to motivate, but also to remedy them. We have research for the future. We have sustainability rules. We have fees for income. This is the framework for a diverse business life and a diverse and secure income base for people around the country. The most important thing is economic policy. We have led, and we are going to conduct, a responsible policy. The 2010 budgetary policy can be described as expansive, but it is a budget for high employment and low unemployment. Strong measures have been taken and strong measures are in the 2010 budget precisely to ensure high employment and the lowest possible unemployment. The state budget for 2010 is the largest ever in research, DKK 1.7 billion more than in 2009. Over 22 billion DKK over the state budget goes to research, over 2 billion DKK for business-related research. This helps to facilitate future investments and strengthen innovation, which is crucial to ensuring the future competitiveness of Norwegian business. There is also a strengthening of the various schemes of Innovation Norway. The scheme is strengthened by 26 p.m., and the total allocation is now SEK 1.5 billion. The framework for new and low-risk loans will be strengthened, which is particularly important at a time of high demand for good financial instruments. These are arrangements that lubricate the gears in business. Long-term and stable framework conditions for the power-generating industry have been one of our promises. It is based on the fact that they are responsible for an important value creation of national and important jobs in a large number of local communities. We have now established a new industrial power regime consisting of several elements. The State budget introduces a new guarantee scheme for long-term agreements for powerful industry, with a framework of DKK 20 billion. The guarantee scheme shall relieve risks and ensure long-term viability. Compared to many other countries with which the Norwegian export-oriented industry competes, Norway is a high-cost country. Therefore, wage-settings are very important when challenging margins. However, Norwegian competitiveness must primarily be ensured through technological development that reduces costs through energy and environmental efficiency, while at the same time the production lines must be efficient. Since the autumn of 2008, the Government has taken a number of important and targeted measures to mitigate the effects of the international financial crisis on the Norwegian economy. In these days, however, there is reason to be particularly aware of the situation we are now seeing in the maritime sector, with very low order intake. If forecasts by the industry itself are turned on, Norwegian shipyards, offshore workshops and equipment suppliers will enter into a demanding market situation as of 2010. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Industry has spent a lot of time and priority contact with this important food chain, just to get a knowledge of the situation. It is now right to have a careful review and an in-depth assessment of the situation, so that, if appropriate, remedial action is needed, we are ready to do the right medicine in a timely manner. The schemes around GIEK and export credit are important for the export-oriented industry. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that the Government is now assessing the arrangements related to GIEK and Export Finance, among others. in terms of flexibility and the scope of action of the arrangements, not least in order to adapt them to the time in which we live and to be used to the greatest extent possible at all times. An important part of the value creation and employment in Norway takes place within the travel sector. The reinforced initiative follows up the travel life strategy launched in 2007. We have a great potential as a travel destination. The placing on the market of Norway as a travel destination is crucial to trigger this potential. Another important issue for Norway is that the state is a major owner in Norwegian business. The main objective of state ownership is to ensure that important enterprises and competences are maintained and further developed in Norway. State ownership must be actively exercised. Globally, we can now see that ownership is changing by the fact that ownership is more directly to the companies than before. This, I believe, is a development we also need to deal with from the state's point of view. Active ownership, as long as it's long-term, is industrially important. I look forward to 2010. There is reason for optimism, but at the same time to be on guard. A lot will go well, but something will also be challenged. As it now looks, the maritime sector and parts of the power-processing industry will be exactly that. I am reassured that the Government has shown some action in terms of the goal of working for all. That power of action is in no way weakened; it stands by layers. I also welcome good and constructive cooperation within the Committee. Although opinions will naturally vary, it is a strength to have a good basis for work. I actually think that we all have a common interest in achieving the goal of high employment, low unemployment and good value creation in a good working life, because this goal is the very key to good life. I will finally be allowed to quote Bjørnstar Bjørnson, who says, "If you've been in a company where you've had to be ashamed of a couple of hardworking hands, you've been in bad company. The budget that we are now dealing with will also give me poor hands, and it delights me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e277	The chairperson of the Committee made a very good and nuanced statement. However, I would like to challenge the chairman of the committee to the following: almost an aggregate increase has been behind the vast majority of the crisis packages that have come, in particular related to the competitive industry and the major industrial companies. However, some of the things that have come a little behind is what is the very foundation of Norwegian business: small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course you do not get the same debate and the same attention in this regard. What many small and medium-sized enterprises are very concerned about is the form fields and timing of reporting. The government is adding up to 173.5 million. kr to Altinn II solutions. But besides that, it's very small. Can the representative tell me where in the budget I find solutions related to simplification and reduction in the form field other than those contained in Altinn II?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e284	Thank you for the question. In the Labour Party, too, we are very concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises. They are a very important factor in employment. It's actually like something's gotten simpler and better for this type of business. ALTINN II – which is addressed by the reply – is an extremely important key to simplifying labour relations. That's what's the main device. However, there is also a lot of work to be done around the different sectors to simplify the reporting and form field system – which the Progress Party chooses to call it – for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then it's important that we focus on it, that we have people who are concerned about it, and that we have people in the systems within the departments and in the underlying agencies who can actually do the job of simplification. So that's the budget we're now dealing with, a good piece on the way in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e293	After all, we are in the season of the highest level of praise, and the contribution of the committee's chairman is incorporated into it. But there was no song of praise for Christmas, on the other hand for the government's policy, and that's what my question is about: For in the maritime sector, it's written in the mood that the majority asks the government to assess the situation carefully, and ‘implements action if necessary’. I understand from that wording that the majority believes that this is not necessary at the moment. My question is: what is it that the majority believes that further action is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e298	First of all, I think it's a good sign in time that it's a very great song of praise. That means we're going to calm down at times, and we're going into Christmas pretty soon. That over 97 pst. by the Norwegian labour force is employed, I think is very good. As for the impact on the maritime sector, as it looks now, we seem to be entering a low economic cycle that is becoming dramatic. We have underlined this in the budgetary position, it has emerged from the work of the Government, and not least the Minister of Industry has underlined it through his good and diverse travel activities and contacts with that industry. If that downturn actually strikes and becomes a reality, it will be necessary to take action, perhaps make arrangements more flexible, etc. But it's the right medicine at the right time that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e305	First, thank you for a very good contribution from the chairman of the Committee. I agree with Aasland that business should have good framework conditions. It shall contribute to job security, which in turn generates profits for important Community goods. That's where we agree. We have a public business, and we have a private business. We could say it so that the privately owned enterprises, the self-employed, have had to fight for the goods they have in a different way from the public ones. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that social rights be guaranteed also for the private, especially in a start-up phase, where health and good care solutions for own children are too poorly cared for for by self-employed persons compared to ordinary employees. Does the representative of Aasland see these obvious differences: should self-employed and entrepreneurs also be entitled to sickness benefits from the first day of sickness on the same basis as other workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e318	I see clearly that self-employed people must have good framework conditions and security for what they are doing. What is important is to exploit the creativity they possess by facilitating the simple, straightforward and motivating establishment of their own activities in Norway. More than 200,000 new jobs have been created in Norway from 2005 until 2009. It means, in my opinion, that setting up a business here is quite attractive and that there are opportunities for profit and good conditions for them as well. There will be challenges in carrying out its own business, as the replicator points out. It's clear that's what we're considering taking us into the future. We have done something to improve the situation, including for private entrepreneurs – especially for those with small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e323	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e327	In my speech, I want to focus on and focus on industrial policy in general and fisheries policy in particular. My colleagues from the Progress Party in the Committee, Mr Bredvoll and Mr Táldal, will take care of the agricultural budget. It is not to be overlooked that this year’s draft budget has a significant impact on the global financial crisis – it should be lacking. For Norway, there are signs that business is now beginning to see a light on the horizon. Unfortunately, this does not apply to everyone. There is reason to fear that in the coming year, jobs in a number of industries could be closed down, and then one will see that as a consequence, unemployment will increase. How many and which industries are hardest hit, probably just history will show us. But we already see some danger signals. To get a certain hint of what can happen to us, a person has to take seriously the signals that have come from business. In the NHO's quarterly report, 2,200 member companies have asked about the belief in the coming year. The answer is discouraging reading: In industry, 37 psts are raining. of those who asked to leave workers on leave the next quarter, the constructions and constructions correspond to 44 pst. the same, and in the travel life industry corresponds to 31 pst. Same thing. You probably won't read these numbers literally, but it gives us some idea of how business itself looks at the time that's coming. In addition, when we can read in the quarterly report of the National Association of Oil and Gas Industries on major uncertainties related to next year's investment in the oil and gas sector, this gives reason to point out that those who claim that the financial crisis is against the Norwegian industry should reconsider their opinions. We also see that there is no contract drying in the paint industry. Although this industry is currently running for the full machine, unfortunately it is only a matter of time before you will be able to experience a stopover if you do not get new boats and ships in order. The background to me drawing all these negative signals from the industry in my introduction is that one can ask questions about whether we have made proposals in the budget under consideration here today for justice medicine and, not least, for medicine to be able to deal with the problems in the coming years. One of the industries that is now really struggling and having a relatively high need to transform into a difficult global market is the Norwegian furniture industry. This is an industry that still needs to adapt to new trends and changing assumptions. In addition, when industry has to deal with falling demand, it goes without saying that some people have significant problems in implementing the conversion processes necessary to meet future challenges, as it is now difficult to raise available capital in the open market. Many of these enterprises are corner stone enterprises in smaller communities that will face major challenges if the enterprise goes beyond its end. When we politicians talk about the furniture industry, you often think about the squirrels. They seem to be doing very well in these times as well. However, I would like to point out that the furniture industry is so infinitely more than the Ekores. The Progress Party therefore believes that the programme already under way in relation to Innovation Furniture must be continued in due course. Norwegian Industry has applied for 50 million on behalf of its members. spent over two years for this project in order to achieve its objectives. The Progress Party will request that the Council of State in its Newsletter of Innovation Norway ensure that this is achieved, all the time when it is an overall committee that highlights the importance of continuing Innovation Furniture. Norway has a unique opportunity to use its huge resources to remedy the worst scenarios without putting the economy back several years. This has made it possible to adopt several business crisis packages. There has been a great deal of agreement on this in Stortinget. However, it is a fact that we cannot continue with ever-new crisis packages to resolve acute situations. It is necessary to return to a system and an industrial policy in which companies can re-sell their goods in a well-functioning world market characterised by healthy competition, without too much interference from the national authorities — not least without interference from those countries that are increasingly moving towards a protectionist industrial policy. If we are to achieve this, we need to pursue a more active and targeted industrial policy in order to meet the challenges of a global economy in which both established enterprises and start-up businesses experience capital droughts. Norway is a capital-rich country and it is now important that capital be made available in the form of several fund structures which can provide a professional incentive for continued risk access. The Progress Party proposes an extension of the Argentum model with fund-in-fund investments to three new funds. This is a model that has proved to work well and with professional management, as opposed to what we were witnessed to by the state in the handling of, among other things. The Aker Solutions thing, which we now have behind us. Of course, the alternative budget of the Progress Party is based on the industrial policy of the Progress Party, which is based on the fact that all industries will pursue industrial policy based on the principle of free competition, where a significant reduction in tax and tax pressures and reduction in public bureaucracy will have a positive impact on the economy. It is worrying that at a time when the effects of a global financial crisis have a tendency to forget that the majority of Norwegian business and what is the cornerstone of creating enough jobs in the future are small and medium-sized enterprises. These are companies that are subcontractors of the industry and will only be hit if, for example: a yard or a major industrial establishment is shut down. These are often enterprises that have not had the opportunity to build up a capital reserve in order to meet difficult times in the future, and it is not least these companies that are struggling with the need to spend time completing increasingly new forms due to the fact that public agencies need to have more and more information. One might get the impression that there is a lack of understanding that for a small enterprise there is a relatively high amount of time for this work – time that should have been used instead to provide the enterprise with income. This happens despite the fact that constant governments proclaim that they will do something about the form field, and provide significant simplifications. The only thing that seems safe is that public bureaucracy is growing almost uninhibited at municipal, state and county level. This cannot continue and it must be expected that more will be done in this field. Luckily, one has been able to see some positive effects related to the ALTINN programme, but it is so infinitely late in the future. The government has set aside some millions to step 2 of this programme, but at the pace of reducing forms fields and red tape, it will take many decades before you reach an acceptable level. Through its Proposal for a Representative 15 S, Document 8:15 for 2009-2010, the Progress Party has proposed simplifications in reporting, forms and legislation for business. 21 concrete proposals for simplifications are being promoted, which could provide more transparent food legislation and fewer reporting burdens, and which would allow businesses to focus more on their primary tasks. This proposal is now under consideration in the Financial Committee, and it will be interesting to see whether the many promises relating to simplification are practical policies and not mere speeches without real content. The Progress Party is also very concerned about having Norwegian seafarers in operation. That is why the Progress Party wants us to put in place a fully-fledged net pay system, a statutory system as such, so that we have framework conditions for the seafarers for years to come, and we do not always risk new proposals for changes. It is not enough to set a ceiling on net wages and salaries for seafarers, because it is not regulated in line with wage and price developments. This makes Norwegian seafarers a little less attractive every year that goes, and this cannot continue. In the state budget, there is a proposal to extend the maximum permitted biomass in the farming industry by 5 pst, which according to the financial position will bring in 360 million. kr. As late as a week ago, this committee released its budget, where there are also praises, and looks forward to that increase in biomass. On the same day as the Committee gives its opinion, which is precisely positive, the Minister for Fisheries and the Coastal Region has put this expansion at risk. Then I asked questions about the following, related to the respect for Stortinget: I have not seen a document from the Government that this has been postponed. I have not seen a single document attached to what to do with the undercover that the State budget has received – for the money has been used. So it's now missing per. today, 360 million. According to the submitted budget, I look forward to hearing about how this has been handled. You can't punish a whole diet because part of the industry has had problems with lice. Because that's what's been argued. If we look at, among other things: Nord-Troms and Finnmark, there are no loop problems there at all. We have a lot of other areas in this country that do not have loop problems, but you do not dare to take that discussion. Instead, the whole increase in the maximum authorised biomass is deferred. I wonder what has been done. Furthermore, we have had a problem related to mackerel fishing, and not least the framework conditions for the fishing industry as a result of the EU exclusion. There I would like to pay tribute to the Government for standing by, trying to do its best in the negotiations we have with the European Union. But what we have not yet received an answer to, and which I will now ask the Minister for Fisheries to give a perfectly clear answer to, is: how are we going to be able to solve the problem of transferring that fish to next year? For it has been promised that the slightly more than 50000 tonnes that have not been fished in the current year will be transferred to next year. And then the question is, is the receiver in place? Are we then allowed to fish in the EU zone, or are we not allowed? How are we going to solve these problems? I hope that the Council of State will take this up in its article. Unfortunately, the Committees of the European Parliament are getting less and less to say, because we have a majority rule. This year must have been a record. I can't find a single place where the business committee's members from the government parties have moved on to a single penny in the budget. This is weird. I have lighted up with light and light to see what the Storting's input has been here, and for which you've had a pass, but it's gone. So now – I kept saying – you have really come under the heels of the Government, and unfortunately, it looks as if the Stortinget is becoming a sand striker when it comes to proposals from the representatives of the government parties. It can't go on like that. Something else that can't go on is the increases that we're now seeing in popular terms because more and more people are falling out of work. There are people who would have been able to participate in and contribute to the Norwegian economy if good solutions had been in place. We have great challenges. In particular, the expenditure of the population will be the real challenge of the coming year, also linked to the budget. Finally, a small explanation of vote. The Progress Party wishes to vote in favour of the Right-wing proposal, No. 38, if our proposal No. Twenty-six is going to fall. I will then deal with the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e367	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e372	The fact that it has not moved on a single dollar from the state budget was presented and to this treatment suggests that there is a well-considered budget that has been provided. In this way, you can question whether what the Advance Party proposes is thoughtful. First of all, the 360 million. kr for consideration for increased biomass is located there. If the biomass increases in the current year, it's 360 million. kr there. But one might wonder if the cuts that the Progress Party is doing, which are well over 100 million. kr, is a way to simplify, or if it becomes too simple – without dedicating measures, without dedicating the number of employees to be removed, if any, or any form of guidance. My question to Nesvik is therefore: Does he have faith in his own budget? And if he does, will he recommend Norwegian business to budget the same way as the Progress Party does in the draft budget that is here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e381	I will certainly support this proposal. The problem with the government budget is that the public sector is increasing and increasing. It looks like you don't have any stomach problems at all. The Progress Party has seen and evaluated the proposals for annual increases in these budgets. There is considerable room for efficiency and savings in the budgets that lie here, and the Progress Party has seized it. We show through our budget that the public sector cannot continue in this way, because this becomes an increasing burden on the private sector, which must cover these costs. So my answer is a perfectly clear yes. Here is room for the efficiency to which it is added, and yes, it would be of benefit to the Norwegian business community. In terms of the budget: that's so great, and that's why you haven't moved a penny in it, can also be a way of looking at it when you're standing without influence in your own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e390	The representative Nesvik was very concerned that there are so many who are out of work and coming to social security. Is it then the right medicine to cut 58 million? in the Labour Inspectorate and the Oil Inspectorate, who is just to make sure that there is a good working environment for our members of the labour force, so that they do not enter into social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e395	Here, too, there is considerable room for efficiency improvement and working differently. You don't have to do all the problems yourself. Other skills can also be used in the business community and in the actors. It's amazing what you can absorb when it comes to new jobs in the public sector. If the representative had gone in and seen the increases that have come year after year in these budgets, there is reason for him to ask himself: within the budget of these government parties, how many are needed, and how many are to be employed? One almost gets the impression that the government wants to get away from unemployment by putting even more people into the public sector, getting even more on control measures instead of assessing the job done in the various agencies. So my answer is yes. Here there is considerable space, and I look forward to these sectors becoming more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e404	The Progress Party wants it to be free to establish itself in all productions. They will liquidate the law on turnover and liquidate market regulation for the benefit of a purely market-based agricultural trading system. My question to Nesvik and the Progress Party is: How will the Progress Party ensure stable prices for consumers and producers by removing these regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e411	The Party wishes to take seriously both the consumer and individual actors in the agricultural sector. With the policy pursued by this government, it has closed down 4,419 farms, i.e. from 31 July 2005 until today. that the policies you pursue are in the opposite direction to what you are told to do. The problem with what you do is that in today's agricultural negotiations, you are involved in increasing the price of the consumer. The point for the consumer is to get a product at a competitive price and of high quality. And we're now in charge of building up a part of all of the constraints in this industry. The Progress Party has made ten concrete proposals in its budget in order to make the opportunity there visible. It's not just the law on sales. There are also a number of other areas that highlight how we will make changes in the agricultural sector. If the representative makes a little difference to New Zealand, she can also get good advice on how to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e418	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e421	It's a serious backstop for this nutrition debate. This is not the case at present, as the chairman of the Committee said in a reply today: if the recession becomes a reality – too many industries and industries they are a reality. Jobs exposed to competition in the yard industry, the supplier industry and other export industries are shown every day. It is the high level of costs, a high level of taxation and the lack of prioritisation of proper investments in the good times that may prove to be very clear to many enterprises, before we hopefully get a new boost. Until then, there is a question of optimum wintering, in fact, too many industries. Is it, then, that the budget adopted today by the majority is well adapted to the situation in which we stand? I don't think so. Many problems remain ahead of many of the business world in Norway, while many sheltered establishments do not notice much. So we're in the much-discussed two-track economy. There was agreement on the banking package last year — there was agreement on the package of measures earlier this year, although the opposition felt that too much was coming in the public sector. I think there's a risk here, so you should extend some of these measures. The budget that was drawn up in spring and this summer, we believe too strongly in itself that only the banks and financial institutions were saved, was the crisis over. The articles in this room, both today and before, also bear the mark of too strong a belief that you did everything right at the time, and that this will last. Some humility in that approach I think would make sense. A number of measures included in the action package should be extended. Several measures launched in February-March were notified again in October. It's too short for the companies to turn around on. There are now, in addition to the fall, reports of demagogued order books and falling earnings. Private business is flexible, but there are limits. The reason for the withdrawal of the arrangements was, of course, the use of oil money over the State budget. The use had to be reduced in order to get back a little faster on the policy track and, unfortunately, the choice fell on the measures to increase value creation and provide the country with export and tax revenues rather than looking at the expenditure side. The risk of the biodiesel tax with a political proceeds of 200 million. kr, and probably a significant political proceeds on the lower side, show this with all clarity. Then the state budget will not save individual businesses. But it should best facilitate, through general framework conditions, competitive taxes, interest rates, interest rates and loan and financing conditions, so that we are able to produce and sell our products on the world market. Therefore, the Right wants another device in the budget. With three weeks to make an alternative, it is my opinion that we can actually offer something that is more time-adjusted to the development of large parts of the business world. Economic trends and international competition change quickly. Long-term budgetary processes, with internal towing and final clarifications long before decisions in the Storting come, are not flexible procedures in such situations. I think this is well illustrated by the many and empathetic – to some extent – visits by a number of export companies, which show a certain abstinence in what can be done and do not since the budget is fixed. Our budget option has less expansiveness, which gives less pressure on interest rates and on dollar rates. It also underlines our other priorities, where we focus on actions that can make jobs safer for people and thus sedentate the value creation that underpins well-being. At the same time, we are spending money on stimulating structural changes in public spending on money, which can in the long term create more efficiency and sustainability in welfare systems. This means that we strengthen jobs and businesses through the tax system by removing the inheritance tax altogether. We reduce property taxes on ownership by reintroducing 15 pst. share discount and by extending the system of increased depreciation rate on machinery. We want to make it pay not only to invest in and run businesses, but also to work. Therefore, the minimum deductions are increased. The point of entry for the top tax is increased, and direct tax deductions are granted for those between 62 and 67 years of age who work. We halve the employer's fee on apprentices. In addition, we want to stimulate people to buy shares in their own company and promote proposals to increase the amount of the free money from such purchases. After the Soria Moria II Declaration, I hope that such a proposal will soon receive the blessing of the Great Britain. We also want to get people back to work faster by restoring tax exemptions for employer-paid treatment costs, and we want to keep the home-PC scheme, with tax exemptions for people with low income. Good countercyclical policy is to strengthen development and research. That's why we think it was pointless in the situation we're in, not to continue the 50 million. kr to the User-Managed Innovation Arena that has been cut by the Government, so that projects that were more or less commercially ready had to be abandoned. We have also found room to improve the weaknesses introduced by the TaxFUNN scheme, a system that uses a lot of business and that works well. On the financing side, we believe that it will prove to be too early to reduce the increases in the loan arrangements received by Innovation Norway in the context of the crisis package. I am aware that this is an increase in relation to 2009, but it is a reduction in relation to the crisis package. The reality description of the state of the yard industry and the supplier industry was unison in the interpellation debate we had here a week ago. Funding, loan opportunities, is one of the big obstacles. There are tools and muscles in the country that should be used at a time when ordinary financial institutions require a sufficiently high interest rate and a risk premium, as well as high equity requirements. We also believe that the credits – the credits owed by the shipping companies in relation to the transition from the old shipping tax system – could have been suspended for a period of time. There is DKK 12 to 14 billion in possible funding. Furthermore, we believe that the fishing fleet should be assessed in the GIEK/export systems to see if it can trigger new investment. The fishing fleet itself believes that it can. These guarantee schemes should also be considered in order to allow new technologies and market developments of new products to enter the system. It also has environmental development appropriations and maritime environmental projects that can trigger eco-innovations. With regard to the agricultural industry, the Right wants a forward-looking and profitable industry — an industry that gives development opportunities, greater freedom and less dependence on public support. There is a significant structural change in Norwegian agriculture that cannot be read only by statistics. The debate in the last few weeks has just shown this. It must be tackled constructively – not by representing the farmers as cellar rings, but by getting the map to vote with the terrain to see how the industry is developing behind the figures. We must then have a debate that will probably lead to significant changes in the system of grants. It will have consequences for grants that are now based on structures that are about to disappear without actually getting them with us. It must also have implications for agricultural property policy, for housing and operational obligations, for nobility, for sharing and for re-disposal which in future agriculture must also be in line with the new structures. It will mean less regulation and less interference with ownership, not least in relation to the right to own property, both by the State and by the municipalities through land-regulating regulations. As it is now, property changes take place more in the dark through other forms of operation, because rigid legislation and bureaucracy prevent property conditions from contributing positively to the structural changes that need to be made in agriculture. That is what is the real problem in the debate on production subsidies and statistics. It is complicated, and we must not simplify that debate. No one can see in the glass ball what's coming. But this winter is going to be problematic. If no change occurs quickly, the revised budget will be a delicate time for the Government to make changes. I hope that we will draw up our laundromat and our proposal for this budget and see if there is anything wrong with it. These are proposals that will probably not be adopted by the majority of the population this time — a large majority that has been allocated only a few millimetres of action space for which flexibility can be achieved. As the President then understands, I nevertheless take up the proposal of the Right optimistically.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e461	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e467	Unlike the Bondevik II Government, the red-green government has been responsible for the continuity and stability of the appropriations for the net pay scheme. Both in the previous and in the current magnification period, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left represent uncertainty and propose a formidable cut in this system. When the representative Fleet refers to the Right Alternative Budget, it is tempting to ask for the argument that the Right proposes to reduce the net pay scheme by a total of 610 million. kr. What are the consequences of their proposals for recruitment of Norwegian seafarers and maritime competence, and why has this come at the top of the Right Cut List?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e472	What's at the top and bottom of the cut list is hardly shown in our budget, but I'd like to say what's going to be the consequences. The consequence will be that the fishing fleet will be able to recruit people in a completely different way. Now they don't have a net paycheck. They compete with offshore – with others who have it. In fact, the fishing fleet is not afraid to enter ports where the crew might be moved over, perhaps to be contacted. It will also have the effect that people who run catering businesses, for example. on the berth in Sandefjord, where I am from – where ferries, floating kiosks between Norway and Sweden, have a net payroll scheme – will not have to increase their salaries in order to be able to get hotel and catering staff at all for their country-based businesses. That will be the consequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e479	The right shall be praised for wanting an agricultural industry throughout the country and for believing that agriculture is important for housing and cultural landscapes in Norway and that agriculture contributes to other industrial activities. My question to the Fleet is therefore: How will the Right in practice target the actions to address this – after removing NOK 36 000 per year. Annual work before putting the measures into action?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e484	If you look at our cuts in agriculture in connection with all of the suggestions we make about changing the structures, you'll see that in some way this will go up. I think it's pretty interesting that right in this budget debate time, the discussion about the number of farmers and statistics comes up, which I just talked about. It's a much more fundamental government than someone exploits schemes or adapts to schemes. It is a basic statistics on the direction in which Norwegian agriculture is going – without us knowing what is going on. Therefore – once again: If we follow our proposals, which we have put forward in several budgets, on changes in living and working conditions and different structures, we will see that this will increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e491	I want to challenge a little bit more about what's going on in agriculture. In their 2010 alternative budget, both the right-hand side – both the Right and the Advance Party – comes once again with their freshly sharpened and quasi-legged to break the agriculture. In a known style, they think "new". And the Right cuts to the leg, while the Progress Party takes the whole leg well, one must say, with regard to the agricultural transfers – when a strip with 2 billion kroner and 7.5 billion dollars respectively. Is it the agriculture and the countryside that are to bleed, so that the fresh blood is to go to tax havens for those who have more than enough already? It's a tool that actually subtracts from contracts that have been entered into. How does the representative Fleet proceed to concluded agreements? And does the representative see the value of living rural areas, cultural landscape management and the impact on tourism when one gets such huge reductions in agricultural transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e498	Now the question might have been more of a demagoguery of how to deal with Norwegian agriculture if our proposals are implemented, but I'm going to answer anyway. We want agriculture all over the country, but we want agriculture that works more on market terms. We think that is actually possible, and I come back to these fundamental debates on the development we have in the country based on the statistics and where we see changes that do not follow the policy. With regard to the question of what to do with the agreements concluded, it is clear that the Right will respect the agreements concluded, but I am absolutely convinced that if – in response to a previous question here – the proposals we have on structural changes in Norwegian agriculture are implemented, I am absolutely sure that this will work well – and agriculture will still be there all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e510	Nationally and globally, we face three major challenges: the environmental crisis, the food crisis and the financial crisis. All these challenges are key elements of industrial policy and the work of the Business Committee. Let's take the financial crisis: Around the millennial shift had the right-hand side of wind sailing with its liberal economic policy. The speculative economy and bonus schemes exploded and the financial economy lost contact with the real economy. This led to a dramatic financial crisis, which eventually also engulfs the real economy, and, as usual, is the common people who have to bear the greatest burdens of misguided right-wing policies. The financial crisis is the price we have to pay for uncontrolled liberalisation, for which the previous speaker was such a strong lawyer. Conservative government leaders who have previously had an aversion to state governance have turned the last year into a complete turnaround and focus on state action. But the bourgeois government in Sweden chose to bet on taxes rather than public consumption. Looking at the large unemployment rate in Sweden, one can safely say that it was a failure. The targeted increase in public consumption, as we have done in Norway, is a far more effective and effective tool in business policy. The red-green government has been successful in its crisis management. We have been through the first phase of less unemployment than other countries in Europe. The government was quickly out of business with reliable incentives. I would particularly like to mention the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK. Within a few days, the government has been given increased frames for GIEK. The afraid enterprises and jobs include, among other things: in my state. Companies in West Agder are now exposed in GIEK for over DKK 10 billion. Without this scheme, we would have lost many jobs and many businesses in my home country. But the father isn't over. The supplier industry and the yard industry are probably the industry that today notices the financial crisis most strongly. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government proposes to continue the guarantee frame for NOK 110 billion in 2010. The government will follow developments closely and use this and other support schemes in a flexible way in collaboration with the industry. The second challenge we face is climate crisis. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has demonstrated that we need to make drastic changes if we are to be able to limit the temperature increase to 2 degrees. Many are afraid that new environmental requirements will pose a threat to business. But the opposite is true if we act properly and in good time. Climate and environmental requirements create a large and growing market for environmental technologies and more efficient processes. We have a lot of examples of that in my state. We can name Elkem Solar, Metal Power, Vestas, Saint Gobain and Agder Energie. Indeed, even the supplier industry, such as National Oilwell and Aker Solutions, is involved in the development of environmental technologies, such as: sea windmills. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, has recently presented a report showing strong growth in the environmental technology market. Norway has a high level of industrial competence with competent staff at all levels. This is a clear commitment to focus on energy efficiency and environmental technologies, in line with the Energy Agency’s recommendation. SV is pleased that the Government is investing in environmental technology through a new fund of 140 million. kr. But there's only one part of the effort in this area. Enova, Innovation Norway and Nord-Invest also focus on environmental technologies. In Soria Moria II, we have said that the Government will review the whole instrument to see how we can stimulate a stronger commitment to environmental technologies. SV will encourage business to take an active part in this process and take their share of the responsibility for making a change before it is too late. We will address the challenges to business success by focusing on renewable energy and environmental technologies. But we have a problem: because of a unilateral commitment to oil-related industrial development, we can risk being overlooked by other nations in the fight for the environment market. We should also be aware that the major changes we are facing are demanding. It is important to achieve extensive cooperation between the state and the business community. We're talking about big investments, and we're talking about markets that are largely regulated by the public. Agriculture policy is also closely linked to climate policy. We now have a report on agriculture and climate. Here we have evidence that agricultural policies are climate policy and environmental policy in the broad sense. We see that good forestry is good climate policy, and that the efficient use of biofuels and second generation biofuels are both good business policy and good climate policy. The conservation of food soils and the exploitation of grazing resources are important for climate and food security. The use of grazing and domestic feed production reduces the need for imports of feed that can be used for food. Reduced feed use will improve the food situation in the world. It is positive that the government is now working to link food security to climate negotiations. Agriculture is glued in many communities around Norway. Without a living agriculture, the basis of life and long traditions will be lost in many communities. Thus, we will also tear away the foundations under other district industries. The weakening of agriculture in rural areas will not least affect the tourism industry. The Progress Party and the Right have a budget that will weaken the income base of the farmers, not least in the districts. Not only does this mean that we can lose jobs in agriculture at a time when we can fear unemployment, but it also removes the foundation under other district industries that these parties want to support. Norway has managed to maintain a differentiated agriculture and has a much larger stock of rural agriculture than, for example, it has. Sweden. One of the reasons for this is the cooperation between the country and the agricultural organisations, anchored in the agricultural negotiations. The proposals of the Progress Party and the Right challenge this cooperation and will be very damaging to District Norway. The size will have a good opportunity to discuss the long-term lines of agricultural policy when we receive the agricultural message for treatment in one year, or perhaps something more. The fishing industry is an important industry for the coast and district of Norway. The wild marine resources and the associated genetic material are common to their property. The government will focus on ensuring sustainable resource management, so that we can house off the sea and create safe jobs and viable coastal communities. With good fish management, we also take responsibility for the global food situation. The situation in the Norwegian fishing industry varies. Large parts of Norwegian fishing industry go well, but parts of traditional fishing industry wear. This applies mainly to those who fish dry and salt fish in North Norway. The saltfish and dryfish industry in Lofoten, the Vesterålen and parts of Troms is a hard frame. The situation is worrying because it threatens the structure of the fisheries industry. This can lead to unwanted centralisation and depopulation of coastal communities. SV is concerned with ensuring coastal employment and settlement and taking care of locally based fishing industries. We are therefore pleased that the Government has submitted a package of 250 million. kr to help this part of the industry. The government will follow developments closely and possibly come back to her. We have recently had a case here in the Chamber where we have discussed international agreements to ensure the sound management of fishing resources. We are pleased that the Government is making a great effort to reach fair and viable agreements with countries with which we share the resource base. SV is concerned that the EU is breaking negotiations and thus jeopardising the resource base. SV is also concerned about the salmonid problem which could lead to economic and ecological problems for the farming industry. Norway has a great responsibility to take care of the wild salmon strains, while at the same time taking care of an important district industry. We are pleased that the Minister for Fisheries has postponed the planned increase in permitted biomass. We expect the industry to take vigorous action to control the salmon industry and create an environmentally viable industry. We'll follow developments carefully, and we're happy that it's set of 15 million. kr for research and monitoring of the situation. The future will judge us whether we are unable to pursue a viable industrial policy – an industrial policy that helps to solve the climate challenges and the food situation, while creating the right to the future and secure jobs. We are at full speed into a situation where industrial policy is climate policy, and climate policy is industrial policy. Soria Mora II points out that we're going to be a leading nation in environmental technology. We can no longer just bet on oil. We must also seize the new market before it is too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e547	It's always interesting to listen to SV's praise of its own policies, the opposite of right-hand policies. One was a little bit concerned with agricultural policy. I just want to remind the representative that in 1989 there were 99 000 farms in Norway. Today, 20 years later, it's 46,000, and maybe not even. You can then ask if the policy that has been pursued is correct. But the most important thing I would ask the representative from SV about is about predatory policies. They have, at the same time, had a predatory policy which says that all four of our large predators must be preserved. For example, on November 25, this year, the nation reads: ‘2324 farmers have applied for the replacement of predators.’ For example: Hedmark says: ‘In Hedmark, the number of animals reported as lost to wolves increased by more than 300 per cent last year.’ Is this not something that disturbs the representative? How does one manage to bring predatory and agricultural policies together in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e564	I want to answer the first question first. Until then, it is only to say that Norway has managed to take care of agriculture and not least rural agriculture far better than the countries it is natural to compare with. One can compare to Sweden. If you've been through Central Sweden and North Sweden, you'll see that the policy that's been pursued has created a much more centralisation and more agriculture-based deforestation than the Norwegian agricultural policy has. One might say that much of what is happening today is due to the market mechanisms that the Progress Party supports, and not to the agricultural policy that we are pursuing, which is trying to stop the Progress Party's policy. When it comes to predatory policy, it's about it in Soria Moria. The representative is going to have to discuss it, so I'm going to assume he's slipping into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e574	As far as SV's policy is concerned, I have always been given the impression that you have one general goal – that is, that all Nordics should live in blocks, work in the public sector and take the trick to work. There is no need for any fisheries or agricultural policy. Some of the problem the nation is facing now is that we're driving and dividing our economy. We get a strong growth in public spending, which leads to pressure on the crown and increased interest rates. This makes the competitive industry, of which there is a lot of it in the districts, struggling to get viable conditions. My question to the representative Holmelid is: Can he explain to me how the increased public expenditure that SV would like to have – with increased interest rates and a much, much stronger crown – can be combined with the amazing growth of competitive industry that the representative here preaches?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e583	Now I have worked in the private business of most of my life, even in the districts. There, I have seen that in today’s tough competitive situation – and especially when one is going to switch from traditional bulk production, which has a lot of district industries to more advanced production and to a much more demanding environmental market – it is a very dependent on close cooperation with the public sector that can invest in research in renewable energy, which is investing in research centres for environmentally friendly energy, and which also uses incentives to secure long-term markets and not in the markets that one in any case will fall out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e588	I want to get a comment from Holmelid about state ownership, because we believe that it is created a pattern with little predictable and random actions that weakens the state as its owner, and we have examples of it. In the ownership notification, this is made visible by the fact that the country that owns is to have both ethical responsibility, social responsibility and not least environmental responsibility. Does the representative Holmelid think that this, through the government's ownership of Statoil, is being safeguarded in the investments made in the climate-friendly oil sand project in Canada?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e595	In order to have a ownership policy, it is important to have a ownership policy that is principled and does not address individual matters. It's hard to imagine having a ownership policy, whether it's a public-eat or a private-eat enterprise, where the owners go into detail on individual matters. But what I see as an absolute challenge for ownership in the public sector is to be so clear in their general formulations that the unfortunate projects don't come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e603	The Centre is committed to pursuing an industrial policy that facilitates an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business. Strategic national efforts will help turn Norway into an environmental priority country and create jobs and secure settlement throughout the country. The 2010 government budget is the largest ever in research, which is particularly important at a time that is still marked by financial crisis and uncertainty in many enterprises. Investment in research and innovation is crucial to ensuring the future competitiveness of Norwegian business. The government also has a historical commitment to trade, which is a very important area for business. For transport, in 2010, 27 billion DKK, a total growth of 21 pst has been proposed. compared to 2009. The government also emphasises the follow-up to the Northern Region Strategy ‘New building blocks in the north’, and will focus on the development of nutrition on land in the further follow-up. The Central Party is pleased that the State budget introduces a new guarantee scheme for long-term schemes for powerful industries with a framework of DKK 20 billion. This is important for further investment in industry. The centre party is also pleased with the strengthening of Enova, which in 2010 will receive DKK 1.8 billion. The allocations from Enova are of great importance, and I want to bring forward the allocation of 175 million. kr to Finnfjord AS and their large environmental project as such. The vision is that this will be the world's first CO2-free melting plant. The Business Committee shall be visited by this company in January. I would also like to show that agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. The main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population, and the risk of food crisis and climate crisis in the world underlines the importance of Norwegian food production. I would also like to point out that for the Government, the aim is to maintain a living and diverse agriculture throughout the country, providing attractive jobs and ensuring recruitment. To achieve this, the Centre Party considers it essential to further develop income and welfare policies in agriculture. I also want to point out a number of bets within local food that we have recently received. In this context, I will bring forward the company Tromspot, which last week launched its bet on Gullöe and Midnight Solpot throughout the Norwegian market. This shows that agricultural investment can contribute most to business development and innovation. Norway has unique travel life offers, and the Centre is concerned that travel needs to be given the opportunity to unlock its potential. The Central Party is pleased that the Government is continuing to invest in tourism, and this industry must be seen in the context of agriculture, culture, fisheries and transport. We're also happy with that $15 million. SEK of this investment shall be used for the marketing of Nordic travel lives. A new travel company is now established, and we in the Central Party have great expectations of a joint profiling of North Norway abroad through this company. The central party is satisfied that the Government has the aim of being the world's foremost maritime nation. This implies further investment in aquaculture and investment in the fishing industry. In particular, the centre batch is concerned with following closely the situation of cod fisheries and assessing the need for further action for this industry. These are key industries contributing to activity, employment and coastal settlement. The centre party is also concerned about the development of the yard industry, and we will follow the situation closely in the future and assess the need for action towards this industry beyond 2010. It is important to follow closely what is happening here, both in relation to the failure of order access and the impact on business of this on the rest of these industries. The centre party is also satisfied with the investment in space activities. I had the pleasure of attending a meeting with the Norwegian Rome Center last week, where this was presented. In cooperation with other countries, major infrastructure investments have been made in Andøya, Tromsø and Svalbard. Investment in space activities has significant industrial implications and contributes to employment and value added across the country. I can also mention the importance of investing in space activities for environmental monitoring. This is not least important with regard to the major upheavals that we see in the north, and to follow closely what happens to the ice change. The Central Party is pleased that the Government of the State Budget for 2010 is making an offensive effort to facilitate economic development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e638	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e641	The result of more than 70 years of a well-regulated agricultural industry proves that the policy has failed because it has not achieved the objectives of housing, employment and income levels. Furthermore, agricultural policy has also resulted in a significant cost in terms of public expenditure, high food prices and a restriction on the free movement of farmers. Any restrictions and obstacles imposed by concession calculations, administrative prices, production quotas and selective aid schemes have been devastating to primary producers. To develop competitive and robust Norwegian agricultural production, there needs to be a shift towards deregulation, red tape and competition. My question to the representative will then be: When will the Central Party begin to take the farmers seriously by introducing full freedom of production with enhanced ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e648	Let me first say that the Centre Party is concerned about agriculture as important for both housing and employment. The same thing is also the Government. We are engaged in an agricultural industry that provides attractive jobs and ensures recruitment, unlike the Progress Party, which will reduce the agricultural agreement by DKK 7.5 billion in 2010. It's going to be $129 000 per person. annual work in 2010. It will be a disaster for agriculture, a wave of bankruptcy for agriculture. The centre party takes agriculture seriously. We are committed to getting good arrangements and keeping the arrangements that are well-functioning, and we are committed to further developing them. We will return to a future agricultural investment in the new agricultural notification that Stortinget will receive in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e655	One of the promises of the red-green government that was never fulfilled was the promise of more reasonable power for the industry. The representative now highlights a guarantee system for purchasing power for industry, a guarantee system which, as far as I can understand, is nothing but an opportunity to buy power on market terms for those companies that do not have a soundness that enables them to obtain these contracts. Is it the view of Mr Nordahl that the proposal contained in the budget, which is the guarantee agreement in question, makes the industry more efficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e660	I want to thank you for the question. I would like to remind you that the fleet will learn more about how this model of consortia, i.e. the agreement on power for industry, will work when we visit the company Finnfjord in January. That's where you take the possibilities that exist. The same goes for a number of other industrial enterprises, which are very positive about the proposal that is now in the state budget. It was celebrated as one of the companies in the industry when this agreement became known earlier in the harvest, and this gives the companies the opportunity to really invest in the future. I must be allowed to say that the fleet has reason to rejoice at the visit we are going to have in January, and to really see how the industry is taking advantage of the possibilities that the government is now giving.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e668	We agree very much on agricultural policy and on the agricultural policy pursued by the Central Party in the Red-Green Government. Here we have a lot in common. According to the Land Layer, agricultural buildings are more impaired than other production buildings. They even say that according to an operational economic point of view, life expectancy is 100 years longer than for a normal building and 100 years longer than for similar buildings in Sweden. Is the representative in agreement with the Christian People's Party that this impairment is great, and that we should increase the depreciation rate from 4 to 6 pst. - that it should be raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e675	I would also like to thank you for the question from the Christian People's Party. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party shares the view of agricultural policy with the red-green government. There are many areas where it is important to focus on agriculture. This with depreciation rates is an important area. There are a number of other areas that are also important, and I expect a good review of all aspects of agricultural policy in the new agricultural message. We will have plenty of opportunity to discuss both this topic and many other issues related to agriculture there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e685	The value creation is the basis for our well-being. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. The Christian People's Party therefore wants a tax system that does not destroy entrepreneurship, for innovation and growth in business. We need a well-functioning labour market that balances business flexibility and central rights for workers. Competition in business is necessary in order to make good use of the resources of society and to avoid the accumulation of monopoly power in a few hands. Not least, we depend on having a knowledge-based school and the best possible higher education and research to take care of our most important resource, namely man. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's proposal for a government budget does not take enough account of the fact that parts of the economy are still struggling in the wake of the financial crisis. The Christian People's Party therefore increases the depreciation rates for machines from 20 to 25 pst. and halves the employer’s fee for apprentices. The Christian People's Party is also of the opinion that the Government's proposal does not provide the necessary strengthening of the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy that we need to finance future welfare. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to remove the inheritance tax on a generation change in the family businesses because we know that good ownership changes secure jobs and value creation. We are strengthening the TaxFUNN scheme to stimulate companies' research, and we are increasing the national road and rail appropriations by a total of 300 million. kr. We strengthen the follow-up work on sick leave. We increase the tax credit for persons aged 62–67 who are in full-time employment and give self-employed entitlement to sickness benefits and to care allowance and care allowance in pregnancy and childbirth. We also have a package of measures for the black economy. We are increasing the appropriations in addition to the Government's proposals for Young Entrepreneurship, Competition Authority and Public Acquisition Complaint. The Christian People's Party also proposes a significant increase in funding for the establishment schemes under Innovation Norway to stimulate entrepreneurial activity, increase in funding for Innovation Furniture and for research and development contracts. The Christian People's Party prioritises the development of new environmental technologies, in particular targeting maritime industry. We believe it is important to stimulate the shipbuilding and offshore supply industry, which is now in a difficult time. We therefore propose an overall commitment to environmental technology projects under Innovation Norway of 380 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. This includes 200 million. to establish a new programme for the research and development of new renewable energy solutions, inter alia. offshore wind turbines aimed at the shipbuilding and offshore supply industries. Such a programme could both help to secure the shipyards’ assignments at a time of weak order entry and exploit Norwegian top expertise in research and development in offshore wind power and other renewable energy solutions. We also propose 100 million. kr for the development of more modern and sustainable short sea shipping fleets and investments in climate-friendly gas ferries, including with a view to ensuring orders for the workshop industry for a very difficult time. We are somewhat disappointed that the government parties will not support these proposals. The Government Parties ask the Government in the budget position of the Economic Committee, which is being discussed today, to take action if necessary. I think that's a little passive, because the government parties also have to see that we're in an acute crisis when it comes to exactly the industry that I've now spent some time at the end of my post. Therefore, I hope that there will be action quite soon. It is very bad that the government parties and other parties do not want to join in supporting the Christian People's Party's proposals, which I am now promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e711	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e716	A short question: Is the Christian People's Party, which is so close to the Government of Agricultural Policy, comfortable in opposition with the Progress Party and the Right, which distances itself to those degrees from today's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e721	Christian People's Party is running its own setup. We have our own policies, and we are at the centre of Norwegian policy. In terms of our policy design, it doesn't really matter what either the Advance Party or the Right Party means. We have our policies. That it is more coincident with the red-green government is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e728	I want to follow up on the previous question. Now we see that the Christian People's Party has an agricultural policy – and so far also in many other ways an industrial policy – which is astonishingly similar to that of Regeringen, and we see that we have two right-wing parties that will rage agricultural policy in slightly different ways. Then we have a party, the Christian People's Party, who promised in the election campaign that if there was a civil plurality, they would get a civil government. Could the representative please tell me what agricultural policy that government would lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e735	Firstly, I do not agree with the SV representative that the Right Party and the Progress Party are raging Norwegian agricultural policy. They must answer for themselves, if any. In the case of civil cooperation or not, at least the Christian People's Party in a centre-right option wants to fight for our agricultural policy. That's what we got through in the Bondevik I government, we got through in Bondevik II, and that policy is in fact following the red-green government, in Soria Moria and in its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e742	It is safe to say that in recent times there has been a focus on the conservation of the wild species and on problems related to the escape of fish and salmon. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about the lice problem in a note, but it is strange and completely incomprehensible that the party did not join the note where it was pointed out that ‘good examples of nutrition taking this seriously’, and that both ‘special feed, lip fish, new vaccines and breeding’ are methods that are considered and that ‘reasons for optimism’. Why is this not the comment of the Christian People’s Party? Don't you believe in the industry and these methods?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e749	Since the Christian People's Party was not on that note, we probably had another comment, where we expressed ourselves that we are taking the industry seriously. I guess there were some positive turns on the part of the government parties that meant we couldn't be on that note, because we're taking those issues seriously. I think it's very positive both what happens to lip fish and the new methods that you have now found can be with and clean the fish. Not least a project in Northern Ireland where salt water is used and the fish is being cut through is very exciting. So this will of course support the Christian People's Party about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e757	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e760	In order to create and secure jobs, it is essential to have a generally good framework for all sectors of business, combined with targeted efforts to ensure undergrowth of unborn enterprises in general and the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises in particular. Public sector instruments need to be more effective in stimulating conversion and innovation rather than traditional activities and conservation. The economy depends on innovation and innovation to be competitive and to meet the challenges of the future. The left will unleash creativity and creativity. That is why we are committed and focused on those governments and government parties that have completely forgotten: entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. That is why we are proposing less regulation and regulation. This is why we propose increasing entrepreneurship in high school and strengthening cooperation between business and school. Research shows that 20 pst. of those who have participated in a youth enterprise, then start their own business. It is therefore important to ensure risk capital through the public instrument and through tax incentives for private investors. This is precisely why strong efforts are being made to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business in general and small businesses in particular the main priority in the 2010 Alternative State Budget of the Left. Left rates in particular to simplify different reporting requirements. Left rates in particular for the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business. An important instrument for our proposal is the creation of a new government body/investment company, Climate Change, which aims to invest in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly conversion of existing business. The left is pleased that the Government has adopted one of the many good proposals from the Left, to introduce a separate grant scheme to invest in pilot plants for the development of climate, environmental and energy solutions. This was, among other things: proposed by us in connection with the treatment of the crisis package earlier this year. Government Parties propose to allocate 140 million. kr and earmark most for the development of 2nd generation biofuels. It is in itself affordable, but then little or nothing is left for other important pilot projects. The left has therefore proposed to allocate 200 million. kr to this in 2010 so that we can support the development of more than biofuels. Together with an investment company for climate technology, such investment will be a highly targeted and sensible use of public stimulus in Norwegian business. The left considers that public attention should be focused more on the efforts in general action in areas where Norway is particularly disadvantaged, such as: travel, industrial research and development of competences. The left considers that one of the main challenges in the future will be to take care of and allow small and medium-sized enterprises to develop and create jobs. Now is the time to bet on the good ideas that will create the jobs of the future, and take care of the companies that provide good conditions for communities around the country. The Left therefore proposes a number of targeted proposals in our 2010 alternative state budget to stimulate more new businesses, more jobs, more innovation and innovation. This is happening in almost all budget areas, and it is happening, for example. on better social rights for self-employed workers over the labour and social budget, on a number of tax proposals, and on research and education on the knowledge budget. Overall, the 2010 alternative government budget proposal of the Left represents a commitment to the business life of the future of over DKK 3.5 billion in relation to the framework laid down by the Government. It would be a right and targeted effort to strengthen Norwegian business, to add to a more environmentally friendly business and to safeguard the welfare of the future. Finally, the Left notifies support for the proposals No. 2-10, points 11 and 12, paragraphs 15–18 and Nos 38 to 40 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e783	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e786	Forest policy: I would like to hear if the Left has updated its forest policy, so that the Left agrees with the rest of the parties on the Stortinget now to include the carbon capture of the forest in the climate accounting. I see it a little in context with the Left cutters in the budget regarding incentives both in terms of forest planting and the construction of forest roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e794	Now I'm not so lucky to be sitting on the Business Committee, which is a very exciting committee, but I'm very concerned about forestry policy and industrial policy in general. Now it is such that the proposal for granular planting is very controversial. We've cut in forest roads in the districts, and we've cut in terms of grandling. I also know that a party that sits in government now, it seems that grandling is problematic. Even I come from the West, and I and many with me don't think that there has been a great success with all the granulation, which has gone beyond biodiversity, among other things. in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e799	It would have been an advantage if the party Left had entered into the professional relationships in terms of granular planting. I won't say so much about it, but it's enough that where there's good land, or good bonity, as it's called in the technical language, it should be planted to get the best grower, and thus the best collection of carbon dioxide and the best environmental account. But that was not what I asked for, it was the general views of the Left on better framework conditions for business and the conditions for the marine operators. Today, in the case of disease, the sea-going operators have no health insurance for the first 16 days and then only 65 pst. This can be done better in two ways if you want to change the 65 pst. up to 90 pst. : either by increasing the social security charge or by increasing the budget appropriations. What is Left's choice in that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e806	First, I want to say that I am absolutely sure that Lundtigen knows much more about forest planting and agricultural policy than I can – than for so long, I am reading up! Then we'll have to take that debate on spruce planting in relation to SV's opinions and the Senterpartiet and the Workers' Party when that time comes. With regard to our alternative budget in industry, we want to stimulate conversion and innovation. We're very concerned about exactly what Lundtigen said, social rights for business. That is why we have actually allocated some money in our alternative budget to that item. We believe that in the private sector, the same social rights are to be enjoyed in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e813	There were not many points of light in the established policy contained in the State budget, as the representative from the Left saw here. I'm a little surprised at the Left's position. Since the left in government, from the left out of government until now, more than 200,000 jobs have been created in Norway – 200,000 more jobs! There must be a sign that at least the red-green government delivers more both in terms of conditions for and stimulation of entrepreneurs, but also to be able to maintain and further develop the established food chains we have to meet the future in a far more active way than when the Left put in government. So my question is, is it actually that the Left believes that the entire business policy is about to change?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e822	No, by no means — not the whole of business policy needs to be reformed. But what we want is that the unborn businesses should be life-creating. I have good contact with potential entrepreneurs who want to start their own business. They think it's very scary to do it right in this period, precisely because you don't have incentives in government policy, as the Left sees it. We have e.g. Capital FUNN, Business Angels, which may be part of the start-up phase, and Tax FUNN, which was the excellent Bondevik II government arrangement. Fortunately, this government has not stepped it down. It's also very important for new businesses. Increased depreciation rates, increased tax on shares and the removal of the employer’s fee – there are many things I could frame up and that could make it easier for the unborn businesses and the companies that the Left wants to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e834	The value creation is the basis of our well-being and our standard of living, and the goal of the Government's industrial policy is to have effective, competitive, long-term and sustainable value creation. It is now that we need to facilitate the business life of the future and the jobs of the future. Providing full employment, working for all, is the most important objective of this government in economic policy. 2009 has been marked by the financial crisis, as many of the previous speakers have experienced. At the same time, it is quite clear that Norway has done better than most other countries. We seem to get out of the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment in Europe, and even lower than what we ourselves expected just a few months ago. One of the reasons for this is the economic policy and the measures for which the Government has been responsible. We've passed the tests that the financial crisis has been subjected to, so far. At the same time, it's important to realize that we have great challenges ahead of us. We have therefore provided an offensive budget for 2010 to ensure the conditions of Norwegian business and to facilitate innovation and research. The 2010 budget for the Ministry of Industry and Trade is approximately DKK 7.6 billion – an increase of 13.6 p.m. from the aged budget in 2009. Key priorities are innovation, entrepreneurship, industrial research, environmental technologies and access to capital. I would like to highlight Innovation Norway as perhaps the Ministry of Industry's main player in creating forward-looking jobs and in strengthening value creation in Norwegian business. In the budget, it is set at over SEK 1.5 billion, which represents an increase of 28 pst. from the aged budget in 2009. In addition, the loan frameworks of the company are still high so that Innovation Norway can grant new loans and thus contribute to increased access to capital for companies and entrepreneurs. In order to improve the framework conditions for entrepreneurship in Norway, the Government has established a nationwide entrepreneurship grant scheme. There has been a lot of work going on in this system, and the government is therefore proposing 50 million. kr for that purpose in 2010. We will continue to focus on young people gaining knowledge and good attitudes about entrepreneurship, because it is through the coming generations that we can ensure the capacity and the will for innovation of the future. Therefore, the Government also supports organisations cooperating with educational institutions on entrepreneurship education and strengthening cooperation between the education sector and industry. Young Entrepreneurship is just doing this. Therefore, a grant of 11 million is proposed to the organisation. kr. I would also like to highlight the Government's commitment to SIVA, an important driver of innovation and value creation. Through networking, SIVA helps create venues where money and good ideas can be met. Through property activities, the company contributes to the establishment of industrial environments and knowledge businesses throughout the country. In the 2010 budget, the equity of SIVA was increased by 200 million. kr. Strengthening will lead to progress in key building projects at a time when capital from private investors and banks will be scarcely available. Today, some of the most important knowledge developments in our businesses are taking place in our country. Business is the largest performing sector in Norwegian research, and this is a development that the Government wants to substantiate and further develop. Total appropriations for research and development in the State budget for 2010 amount to approximately NOK 22.5 billion. It is close to the Government's goal of a public research effort of 1 pst. GDP. Over the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, about DKK 2.18 billion has been allocated to industrial research. There's a growth of 13 pst. compared to the 2009 budget. This includes, inter alia: strengthening research in strategically important areas, such as renewable energy, marine bio-prospecting and space activities. We need to think again if we are to meet the economic and environmental challenges we are going to face in the future. The outlook for climate and environment requires new solutions and technologies, and as set out in the timing, there is a broad political consensus that Norway should focus on environmental technologies. The budget adopted today will be set at 140 million. kr to eco-innovation under Innovation Norway. Of these, 100 million is. kr earmarked the development of second-generation biofuels. In addition to investing in the development of biofuels, environmental technology funds will promote business development, which will strengthen the long-term competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Over time, this effort could contribute to the achievement of Norway's environmental objectives. Maritime sector is one of the main areas of government activity. In this area, Norway has a very strong global position and long traditions. In 2008 and 2009, a total of 390 million were allocated. kr to maritime research and innovation related to the Government’s maritime strategy, and in 2010 this investment continues at 188 million. kr. The subsidy scheme for the employment of seafarers provides a good framework for the maritime industry. I note that several of the opposition parties in their alternatives are tightening or liquidating the scheme. I am pleased that the arrangement is continued after the day's arrangement in the next year's budget. Travel is one of the fastest growing industries worldwide. The government will facilitate Norway to take its share of growth and take advantage of our special advantages within this industry. Overall, it's set at 260 million. kr for tourism purposes in the 2010 budget. As mentioned above, parts of the economy remain in a difficult situation. This applies primarily to the export industries, which face tough markets around the world. GIEK’s guarantee schemes are an important tool to ensure a stable framework for Norwegian export-oriented business. The Government is therefore concerned that the GIEK schemes should be adapted to the needs of the industry. The 2010 budget is in line with the framework of the existing mechanisms and, in addition, a new guarantee scheme under GIEK will now be put in place to ensure a strong industry. The scheme will help industry to obtain the necessary funding and security in the conclusion of long-term power contracts. The paint industry is particularly vulnerable. It is a tough competition in a market that has been hit hard by the financial crisis. Worldwide, ship intake has fallen by over 90 pst. From the autumn of 2010 there are two thirds of Norwegian shipyards without orders. This is a situation which I follow closely, and which the Government is very aware of. We understand – and it is important that others also understand – that although the financial crisis for some industries may be over, at least with the worst, this is a sector that is now moving into the effects of the financial crisis. I myself have visited a number of shipyards to gain insight into the situation. I have also asked for input on current actions from GIEK, Export Finance, Innovation Norway and a number of other actors, and the Government will continue to work on the recordings we have received. The State owns Norwegian companies to ensure long-term value creation and to safeguard the interests of the community. I have noticed that the opposition in the position of the Business Committee has criticized the Government's exercise of ownership, and I disagree with the opposition's remarks on several points. In my view, state ownership is managed in a clean and professional manner and in line with the principles laid down in the ownership message. We place great emphasis on government-owned companies being managed in accordance with generally accepted principles of good ownership and corporate governance. The government has clear expectations that companies will deliver in areas such as the environment, ethical standards, management pay, incentive schemes and social responsibility. This is followed up by a continuous dialogue with the companies. We've put behind us for a difficult year, and we're still in turbulent times. The international financial crisis and the severe recession in the world economy have put Norwegian business and Norwegian economic policy to the test. Both during the crisis and in the past, Norway and the Norwegian authorities have made choices that have helped us to deal with the difficult situation. We have a long way to go, and I am convinced that the 2010 budget provides a good basis for success in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e875	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e878	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good review of its own budget. I want to be relatively specific in my questioning. I have also previously addressed issues related to Innovation Norway, and not least the use of funds for Innovation Furniture, a project that is very important precisely for an industry that is very dependent on the export market, and also very dependent on a stable price. So to my question to the Council of State. The Council of State has repeatedly referred to - and now a unanimous committee - the importance of continuing Innovation Furniture. It has also been said from this pulpit in a questioning with me earlier. What is missing, however, is to put this into practice, which is what the Council of State is talking about. Norwegian Industry has applied for a package of 50 million. kr distributed over two years, but at the end of the Innovation Furniture piece, which we have behind us, the last allocation was only 5 million. kr that year. Could the Council of State be more specific as regards the amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e887	First of all, I must say that I like the commitment of the Progress Party to Innovation Norway, because it is not always as happy in the state arrangements to facilitate business. On the contrary, I heard earlier today a rather fundamental defence for the free market economy, which should be as far as possible without State intervention and aid schemes. But that commitment I share. I also think Innovation Furniture is a good project. In the letter of award to Innovation Norway, we will continue that project. However, the exact sum must be returned when the letter of allocation leaves. But I want to make sure that there will be a good framework for Innovation Furniture too, so that this part of the business community will also receive the support that Innovation Norway can provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e894	The councils were in on – as far as it was – this with travel life, in two or three sentences. Travel life is the fourth largest industry in the country, so I might have expected the Council of State to say a little more about it. Travel is an industry that is struggling by day, both because of the financial crisis and the turmoil it creates. Less hotel beds are sold, smaller tours are sold, smaller food is served – and cheaper food is served, so to speak. There are several hotels that have now announced permits, including: in connection with Christmas, because they haven't sold enough beds. Governments have been good and have been around Norway a lot, but I may miss this with travel lives. I would therefore like to ask: what are the thoughts of the Council of State on travel life, and what will he do specifically to help this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e901	It is quite right that travel life is also one of the sectors that notice the financial crisis well, especially because some of the countries that have people coming to Norway are severely affected by the financial crisis – it is bad economic times, and a good number of households in these countries may reduce their savings and thus reduce their travel activity. Nevertheless, we get to believe that the long-term trend in travel life is a strong growth in the years that come, simply because people get better advice, and we get more time and want more experiences. The effort to be made in the field of travel life is particularly linked to the marketing of Norway as a destination for travel life, increasing its competence in industry, providing networks and cooperation arrangements and developing new products for travel life. The frame we have at 260 million. kr, will strengthen these areas, in close dialogue with both the NHO, HSH and others organising Norwegian travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e908	‘ Passed’ — so far — is the State Council’s own certificate. I'm not supposed to disagree. The question is whether the 2010 budget will continue to display ‘passenger’. In a reply with the chairman of the committee earlier today, I asked a question about the majority comment asking the Government to ‘implement measures if necessary’. On the question of when it is necessary, was the committee chairman’s answer that it is whose recession “becomes a reality.” Based on all the cost-effective travels that the Council of State has made around, and on the description he also gives today of some areas of Norwegian business, would he say that the recession is now a reality? And if so, when can we expect the measures to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e920	I think we share the view that 2009 has been an exceptionally good year for the paint industry and the supplier industry. What's so paradoxical about this sector is that 2009 is going to be 'all hour high' for a lot of companies. 2010 will also be a useful year for many. It may be the second best year for many of these companies, but in addition to the fall of 2010, the order books go empty. There are two crucial factors here. One is the offshore sector, the gas and oil sectors — to what extent are the different fields ready-to-use to be ordered and mandated by shipyards and suppliers? The second is how ship access is going to be in addition to spring 2010, and to what extent Norwegian companies are able to compete in this. When we have the answer to that, we know what we need to put in place measures in relation to conversion, in-house training, permitting measures and perhaps public orders. We'll come back to Stortinget with it to the extent necessary, and at the time we see fit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e927	There's a lot one could ask the Council of State about, but I want to focus on the 40,000 family-owned businesses that the next few years are ahead of a generation change. We know that this gives huge challenges to those who are going to take over these businesses, because there are large values in the companies that give high value. The Christian People's Party has taken this seriously, and we want to remove this inheritance fee according to a particular model. So the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see these challenges of generation change, and what is the Government's response to these challenges to family-run enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e934	All changes in ownership of enterprises can be demanding and challenging, but of course it is particularly demanding in family or small enterprises that have an owner who is also active in the operation of the company or business. 30 pst. of the holdings experienced a change in ownership over the last 10 years. Probably 40 pst. experienced it over the next ten years. So this includes a lot of workers. I think it's about half a million employees who have been employed in an enterprise that has had a change of ownership in the last ten years. This is therefore very important in the economy. One thing is the financial framework around it, and we can discuss them continuously. But I think it's also about competence – having a network around it when a new generation is going to take over, and having the opportunity for Innovation Norway or others to be supportive advisors who can contribute with their schemes. We will work on this in close dialogue with the companies themselves. I visited last week's NHO's family-run enterprise body, and I want to continue that dialogue with the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e941	My question is about welfare schemes in private business. Gradually, we have had many good arrangements for those who are employed by the public — in the case of social schemes such as sick pay, in the case of the coverage of child sickness, in the case of the pension scheme and in the case of the tax system. Then there's a group that we in the Left believe is being down-prioritized, and that's the private business. When we read the Soria Moria statement, we see that self-employed and entrepreneurs are mentioned a few times. It shows the focus this government has on this. I have two questions for the Council of State: Do the Council of State want more self-employed and more entrepreneurs? And if the answer is yes, what does the Council of State actually think is necessary in order for us to get more people to become self-employed and entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e949	The answer to the question is a solar yes. We want more entrepreneurs, we want skilled entrepreneurs, and we want entrepreneurs who succeed. Mobilising entrepreneurship and creative activities is important to the Government. So we know that some, especially people who might start up a one-man enterprise or a small business, get it more challenging when it comes to some of these social arrangements. Everything from retirement to maternity leave and sick pay is different. This is based on the simple principle that if you don't pay in to popular security, you won't get anything out either. The weekend's statement about the foreign service – I would almost say – or about people in foreign service do well to tell you what this is like, because you don't participate in the community. There are collective schemes, insurance schemes, to which you can pay and thus arrange. But if we on the part of the state, together with private actors, are able to facilitate such collective arrangements, especially for the small ones, it is an interesting idea. I also experienced this from the cultural point of view, how many have small individual companies and not at all the same salary as maybe lawyers, doctors or who has a pretty good salary, so this is an interesting idea to further develop. Here we are receptive to good input from the opposition – as always.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e956	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e959	Good business policy is good district policy. This is why the Progress Party in its alternative state budget wishes, among other things. to bet on travel life – yes, the Advance Party wants to bet so much that it really monks. Marketing Norway as an interesting and rewarding country to visit, despite financial turmoil and crisis, is very important. Despite this turmoil, there are still many people who have a lot of money for this type of task. It is important that the advertising reaches, and that it is correct, because it is important that those who first visit Norway come back because they are satisfied, and that they tell them how good it was. A large part of travel life – everything included – is struggling today. The number of nights spent no longer increases, and many notice a decrease. The same is true of the sale of food and other purchases. Many companies, although fortunately there are some exceptions, have e.g. a fairer Christmas celebration this year than before. Some hotels say they've closed for Christmas. In order to improve travel opportunities, there are a number of things we can do, and the Progress Party has at least some of these tools. The Progress Party wants to reduce taxes and taxes. We want to look at the Working Environment Act, spend more money on transportation, look at the alcohol law, etc. This year the so-called harry trade will be around NOK 7.6 billion and corresponds to a loss of approx. 9 000 jobs. Some of these jobs are also in this industry. We have to get the Norwegians to use their own country for vacations, instead of travelling abroad. In its budget, the Progress Party will significantly increase support for Svalbard Travel Life AS, which can offer experiences in Norway that are unique. The same applies to other experiences around Norway. We have so much to offer, but this needs to be facilitated. Everything cannot be adopted, but we politicians must give each one the freedom to evolve and his business. Then I would like to say a few words about the agricultural policy and the budget of the Progress Party. It is well in this area that the policies of the Progress Party differ greatly from those of the other established parties. While the others believe in laws, regulations, transfers, etc., the Progress Party has more faith in freedom. Over the past 50 years, Norway as a society has changed a lot, from a typical agricultural Norway to the society we have today, with a rich range of opportunities. The way we regulate this industry is the way it used to be, despite changing governments – both bourgeois and socialist. The number of farms has been reduced each year, and more and more light and travel have turned off. The earth is sold or leased to the neighbor – if there is any neighbor. There is a dispute as to whether the numbers are correct, but either way, as few full-time and part-time farmers as they are today have never been. The area cultivated is roughly the same, maybe a little bit smaller, but it's produced the same amount. This is due to larger and better tools, better spraying and fertiliser programmes and better seeding, among other things. A spring son who previously may have taken three weeks, is today done at a maximum of one week, if the weather lasts. The same applies to harvesting. I believe that all parties have a sincere desire to preserve Norwegian agriculture – for several reasons, for example. food preparedness, employment, maintaining a natural distribution between city and country, preserving the cultural landscape, natural population distribution, etc. But – and it is a great but – the way in which you are different; the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is different from that of the others. While there were 99 000 agricultural holdings in 1989, there are now about 99 000 agricultural holdings. 46 000. So it's been a half of 20 years. It is said that the decline has become smaller – yes, it should only be lacking, when fewer and fewer can stop! In its alternative state budget, the party wants to reduce agricultural transfers quite so considerably and is criticised for this. But we want to give so much more back. So we're going to give you, for example: a great deal back in the form of so-called 'conversion agents', so that those who wish to engage in anything other than ordinary food production in either a whole or a divided position are able to do so. This is one thing, but it's also a number of other things. The most important thing is perhaps the word «freedom» – the freedom to dispose of one's own property, the freedom to choose how to drive it, and the freedom to decide who will live there and where to live. Around Norway there are a lot of good farmers, read: self-employed, who see the possibility of running the farm in a slightly different way. They might disallow one or more plots for housing or commercial purposes, maybe they'll put out a small cabin field or maybe make a golf course. The answer is often no or reduced permission. This reduced the authorisation, e.g. a request of seven cabins reduced to five, does not result in an economy in this. Everyone loses: the farmer, the person who wants to buy the land, the joiner, the people who sell the materials, the local store, the gas station that had got new customers, etc., and not least you kill the desire to take action. Many young farmers, or those who want to be, have a different lifestyle than before. They want freedom and a more common workload. Therefore, someone goes together and wants to co-operate. This isn't easy with today's system either. I think that, among other things, this is the way to go in order to maintain agriculture. With co-operation, they get a more regulated, regular working time, are part of a professional environment and can distribute the costs and investments better, thus improving their profitability. The Progress Party will also significantly reduce taxes and levies, which will help to improve the economy in the industry. As mentioned earlier, we are trading for almost 8 billion kroner this year, mainly in Sweden. Much of this money goes to groceries – groceries that are just as good, as healthy and equally good in Norway, but among other things. due to taxes and taxes significantly more expensive in Norway. It goes without saying that relatively many of the 9000 lost jobs could have been retained in agriculture. Around the district of Norway there are many farms, i.e. house, inch. The earth is wasted, but otherwise no activity. This is due to many things, but I think the main reason is the maximum price. That is, the purchaser and the seller who have agreed on a price does not get this approved by the politicians, because they believe it is too high and does not correspond to the yield the farm can give with normal, regular agricultural production. The progress party has the greatest understanding that the owners of a farm that they, their parents and perhaps generations have built don't want to give away the farm at a low price. Then many prefer to keep it, and a maturity starts, unfortunately. This maximum price also results in the very prudent use of funds for maintenance while operating the farm. When you know that you get a maximum approved price for the farm, it goes without saying that you do not invest more than what is necessary. This is very bad, as it helps to reduce the quality of the farm, and you get a district of discouragement. This also gives ring-effects to the other topic I talked about earlier, namely travel life. Our fine, proud settlements with their farms are nothing to show to our tourists if the decay continues. The progress party is also the farmer's best friend in the case of predators. No other party has such a clear predatory policy. In my district, Hedmark, over the past 30 years, we've had a growing predatory strain, especially wolf. This has meant that those who have driven with a bump, either as a full-time or part-time position, have stopped or reduced operation. Arguing governments have believed that predators and buffalo can live together, and have paid off the situation, but this cannot go any further. The few who still drive are just getting fewer and fewer. The cultural landscape grows again, and there will be even less of our fine districts, and even less exciting and interesting for our tourists. Yes, the Progress Party will provide less financial support for agriculture, as we believe in a completely different way of farming. The Party of Progress will stop the reduction in both the number of farms and the number of farmers. We will propose the lifting of personal living and duty, the lifting of price regulations, not least the surrender of freedom to the farmer and much more. If someone wants to turn their property into an AS, the Progress Party will take a positive view of this. If the districts are to survive, we must look at schemes other than those used today. These have been shown to have expired. Agriculture and rural areas need younger people. You do not get that with the laws and regulations that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e998	As Norway has long had a focus on sustainability, Norwegian seas have provided great opportunities in today’s international market. These are opportunities that the industry must be allowed to exploit in order to grow internationally. Nor should Norwegian maritime food policy and Norwegian maritime food management be problem-oriented, but also focus on industry opportunities. Maritime policy shall be forward-looking, facilitate generational shifts and sound capital management and ensure that industry becomes attractive to future generations. In these industries we find future food workers, fishermen and fishermen. But here we also find future knowledge and research workplaces. Seafood is an industry in which Norway has a high international impact. We must take advantage of this, for example: by entering early and working actively in processes in the EU and in other international forums. So we have to be good at thinking about bilateral agreements with a focus on sustainability. Our Northern Region policy must be revitalised, and maritime food policy must be included here as an important pillar. This means that the industry still has an important task in building North Norway. This cannot be done by giving the industry responsibility for housing in such a way that the industry becomes unprofitable. We achieve profitability in the north by investing in a diverse and adaptable industry that has a wide range of products and eyes aimed at the market. Only in this way can it contribute to long-term settlement and activity. The right believes that the North's seafood industry has special opportunities through traditional fishing and fishing, but also through innovation and the harvesting of new species. Seafood is a healthful food and has a good «climate accounting». The right, therefore, believes that high ambitions are needed to increase consumption both outside and at home. In the future, the modern consumer will pay more and more attention to the fact that products come from sustainable populations and are produced under ecologically sustainable legislation. The Norwegian fishing industry has undergone a major change, including: by allowing the fleet link through different structural arrangements to increase the quota base per year. boat and increased profitability. This is a policy that has been widely supported by politics for the past 25 years. The country side has also experienced major restructuring as, among other things, new technologies and globalisation have made this necessary. However, there is reason to recall that a public cost increase without regard to competitive industry will create, and create, greater and more unmanageable problems for industry. We rely on a financial and industrial policy that stimulates profitability and gives rise to optimism. Therefore, the Right is critical that since the 2005 elections, a number of measures and regulations have been imposed on the Norwegian fishing industry which have weakened profitability. In recent years, with structural breaks, increased net pay arrangements for the shipping industry, increased and changed delivery obligations, extensive experiments with district quotas and by-catch models contribute to a deterioration in profitability. All regulatory processes should include a small warning that thinks long-term for those affected by new rules. Last week we experienced again that the aquaculture industry was exposed to a long-term announced increase in the maximum authorised biomass. The salmonid problem has become major, and the justification is important enough. The big problem here is that one sees the coast as a whole, and cannot nuance so that one can carry out the increase where it is appropriate. The example is good for showing some of the loads a well-regulated and bureaucratic industry is struggling with. The right will show that the United Nations Food Programme has pointed out that the aquaculture industry has a significant responsibility for the world’s future food supply and that Norway must take its share of responsibility in this respect. The right is believed to have better control of the increase taking place at the premises, and will therefore look at the winding-up of the concession scheme. We believe it is important that the growth of the aquaculture industry takes place in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way. We think this might be the way to go. The right-hand maritime food policy will facilitate profitability at all stages. On the right, it is pleased that the Government, after making a proposal to that effect, decided to make changes to the so-called random fishing system. This also provides an environmental benefit by allowing the trawler fleet to fish the different species in a simpler and more flexible way. For the smallest fleet, the lower cost of delivered capture is also giving rise to new challenges. Therefore, the time is ripe to consider co-fishing for the smallest fleet group as well. This will provide a safer job, while maintaining fleet profitability. The right also considers that there is a need to examine whether changes can be made during the quota year. In order to ensure coastal activity and efficient market care throughout the year, the quota year should perhaps start in September. This will result in producers also having access to fish in a well-paying harvest market. Another option would be a system of periodicisation of fishing quotas. Research and development is important for all industries, not least the primary industries. Right will point out that we believe both the amount of research and the quality of research will increase if more of this is initiated by and carried out in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1021	Good income development for businessmen is the cornerstone of this government's agricultural policy. It is necessary for the industry itself and for the simple fact that income and well-being are essential in order for us to ensure continued recruitment to the industry. Without viable and varied farming across the country, society will not over time achieve the objectives of safe food, living settlements and open and well-kept cultural landscapes. Through the agricultural agreement, we have facilitated a projected increase in income of well over 70 000 kroner per year. annual work over the period 2006-2010 based on the forecasts on which the negotiations were based, at the latest in spring. These assumptions are intended to make it possible to ensure an approximately equal income development measured in kronor for agriculture as for other groups of society, stressing that the Government prioritises agriculture. Through the Storting's budget decision, we're increasing the budget framework by 560 million. kr over the agriculture agreement in 2010 and the priority is clear: most of it is allocated to grass-based livestock, with a clear structure and rural profile. A very large proportion of the Ministry's budget is allocated to the economic agreements. I attach great importance to the management of the funds in line with the legislation of the schemes, and the State's agricultural administration is continuously working with targeted control of the financial instruments associated with the schemes. In the spring session, the Government presented St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture as part of the solution. This is an important message that describes the major challenges we face at international level – climate change and the food crisis. Now, according to plan, Stortinget will deal with this tomorrow. I have been particularly concerned that we cannot solve the climate challenges without also providing food to an ever-increasing population. This applies both globally and nationally. In the 2010 government budget, the Government has given priority to strengthening agricultural policy instruments that deliver positive climate benefits. In addition to funds from the agricultural agreement, which was negotiated earlier this year, we are strengthening the 2010 budget for forest, climate and energy measures by 25 million. kr. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Budgets is behind the Government's proposal for measures to reduce agricultural emissions by at least 1.1 million. tonnes of CO2 by 2020. Like the majority, I also base the assumption that increased activity in forestry will facilitate a future high CO2 absorption in Norwegian forests. It's great that also the Right and Christian People's Party joins this analysis. Green energy investment through, inter alia: targeted efforts on bioenergy are also central to achieving the objectives set by the Government in the Single European Act. Food safety and good animal health are important areas of activity that the Government places high. We need to take seriously the challenges that climate change now seems to be giving us in the field of animal health. Good preparedness, monitoring and preventive measures are important in order to respond to increased livestock infectious pressures. There has therefore been a need to strengthen work in the field of animal health by 10 million. kr. The money is distributed by 7 million. SEK to the Food Authority and SEK 3 million. kr to the Veterinary Institute, both of which are important actors in the process of ensuring continued good animal health in our country. I also point out that the draft budget means that the Food Safety Authority will have to extend its transition period to 2010, so that the comprehensive work on the new supervisory system, MATS, can be completed in a satisfactory and good manner, while at the same time giving priority to key tasks in food safety, animal welfare and animal and plant health. The development of new industries in agriculture is necessary. We have been through a challenging year of financial crisis and great economic turmoil internationally. In this perspective, it is important to facilitate the continued development of new jobs and, in my view, agriculture has a good potential for increased industrial development through the development of new and exciting products and services. In this context, I would like to agree with the majority of the Committee that increasing the focus on agricultural innovation is a necessary prerequisite for further development and food production. In the draft budget, we have laid the foundations for further strengthening the innovative capacity of agriculture with long-term and targeted work, with objectives of increasing competitiveness in all agricultural industries. We have to make consumers proud of the Norwegian food culture, and we have to take an interest in the whole food chain. Consumers' wishes and preferences, not least in the case of food with local anchoring, identity and history, must be met in an offensive manner. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for doing a good and thorough job on the vote. The position shows clear lines of view on the direction of agricultural policy. However, I note that a clear majority on the Stortinget supports the government's agricultural and food policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1055	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1058	In Bondebladt on 10 December, there was a report on the success of New Zealand in the way it operates agriculture. In 1984, New Zealand introduced major economic reforms with full exemption from agriculture — by introducing full freedom of production with enhanced ownership, leading to 60 pst. the export income of the country comes from agriculture. The farmers who were interviewed say they have succeeded because the processing stage is largely based on competition in the market. The same applies to the turnover of means of operation, where there is also competition between local actors. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that Norway should pursue a policy of full exemption from agriculture, by introducing full freedom of production with enhanced ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1065	I would like to start by saying that I totally disagree with the fact that it is right to pursue a policy of full exemption in Norwegian agriculture, as has happened in New Zealand. The background is, of course, that such a policy would mean a complete conversion of Norwegian agriculture, in the disfavor of all agriculture in the district of Norway. This will involve enormous structural changes, which will mean a collection of agriculture in a few areas, and not least we will export the Norwegian food industry – the majority of Norwegian industry today. What is the basis for this proposal is, of course, that the Progress Party fully agrees with the same policy. What will happen when the policy of the Progress Party is implemented in Norway is that we are left with a marginalised food production industry in Norway — an industry that does not have the meaning of the districts it currently has. I take a strong distance from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1072	Some farms come for sale, there is a buyer and a seller, and they agree on a price. So the agricultural authorities say, no, this price is too high, the return that the farm can give, doesn't mean this price. Thus there will be no trade – i.e. the price regulation is the maximum price. This also has something to say for the maintenance. Some farmers don't see themselves well served to maintain their farm as much as could really be necessary, and with which they would have been served. The reason is that they know that the farm is worth the most and so many dollars on the open market, because the authorities have set that price. Does the Council of State know that there has been no sale of one or more farms due to the policy pursued today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1079	Of course, the Council of State is aware that there are discussions about the price regulation mechanism in agriculture, and it has not least the background that both the Progress Party and the Right strongly disagree with the need for a price regulation of agricultural property. I would like to stress that when we have such price regulation, it is based on the fact that we want a socially sound price for agricultural property, which can help achieve the objectives of agricultural policy. The aim of this agricultural policy, as well as price control, is to ensure the recruitment of agriculture and to facilitate ownership that provides a basis for good and long-term resource management. Unlike the Progress Party, we're from the Center Party, and the Government's, side more concerned with those who are going into the industry than with those who are going out of the industry. We are not least concerned that those who are going in should have the opportunity to live with a price that will enable them to survive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1086	The first line showed that Norwegian agricultural policy and debate are being quite polarized between the Progress Party and the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government. I think the cut of the Progress Party will be quite dramatic, but I also think it is quite dramatic that the Minister of Agriculture does not take the real development of the industry into account. We now have an industry where the farmer lives on 40 pst. land rent, and we have had a longer round of articles in the nations on ‘post-box farmers’, and that the statistics may be too poor to reflect real developments. I know that the Minister of Agriculture and the National Audit Office will come back to that with the statistics, but I find it strange that the Minister of Agriculture does not take on board the fact that the policy is a little against windmills here. Everyone wants a good income development, but then you also have to take reality into account. Does the Minister of Agriculture not see the need for policy to be up-to-date on the real development of the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1094	Firstly, the representative, Mr Gundersen, is touching on a matter which is now to be raised in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I will then, to the best of my ability, try to provide the best possible answer, and I think it would be an advantage to come back to all aspects of this matter in this regard. But I would like to stress that here we are probably talking about both adaptation to legislation and, in some cases, about circumvention of the legislation, which I, of course, take a great deal of distance from. I also agree with Mr Gundersen that the discussion between the Progress Party and the Centre shows two quite different ideological points of view, and I am very pleased that at least the Right is closer to the Centre than the Progress Party is in its liberal approach to agricultural policy. As for the discussion on how to further develop this industry, I look forward to working with an agricultural message in the coming year. There will be many good opportunities to discuss this with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the other parties in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1101	In the same way as the Council of State – and as the Centre Party – the Christian People's Party is engaged in a living agriculture. It is good district policy, and we want to be involved in further developing the income and welfare policy of farmers. The Christian People's Party regards agriculture as an important industry — an important industry for the whole country. And my question to the minister is, why can't the farmers, in line with all the other businesses, apply for funds from municipal food funds? Today this is not possible, despite the fact that according to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the food funds are to ‘enhance the possibility of local economic development work on the basis of local environment assumptions and opportunities’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1108	Firstly, I would like to stress that I agree with the description put forward here by the representative Andersen Eide, that there is a great deal of agreement between the agricultural policy of the Government, the agricultural policy of the Centre Party, and the Christian People's Party has expressed over the last few years – and earlier. We have a starting point today in St.meld. No 19 was developed in the former Minister of Agriculture Kåre Gjøne’s term of office, which is a good starting point for agricultural policy. With regard to the issue of local labour funds, a scheme is initially set up in industries other than agriculture, which has its arrangements under the agricultural agreement. To the extent that it is to be amended, it must be included in the agricultural contract negotiations, and it must also be clarified in relation to other instruments. It's a matter that I imagine we'll look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1115	It was interesting to hear the Progress Party, which has now switched from Britain as a model to New Zealand, and I want to ask the Council of State in relation to it. New Zealand is one of the most important exporting countries in the world. It's grass-covered all over the country. It grazes all year long. It is a price level such that the world market price of skimmed dried milk powder is referenced in New Zealand, because it is the lowest price in the world. My question to the Council of State is, are there any countries in the world that are further away from Norwegian agriculture than New Zealand?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1124	I agree with the representative Lundteigen that it is interesting to look at the differences between the United Kingdom and New Zealand. Both countries basically have a liberal agricultural policy. At the same time, it is not surprising that changes are being made in the United Kingdom with today’s government, and in fact the United Kingdom currently has a higher level of self-sufficiency than Norway, approximately. 60-70 pst. It was informed by the Council of State in a meeting with the undersigned a few weeks ago. With regard to the situation compared to New Zealand, there may be countries that have policies that are fundamentally different from Norway, but I can't identify them. I think we can say it so that in New Zealand you have used your natural starting point for farming, but they have organized it so that the market can have the ground free. This means, of course, that one has a centralised policy, one does not have a policy that covers the whole of New Zealand – a policy that is the opposite of what we want in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1131	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1134	Since the acquisition in 2005, the government has been very concerned about the maritime industries. In the autumn of 2007, the Maritime Strategy ‘Supporting the course’ was presented to support further development and growth in an important industry for Norway. We have one of the world's most complete maritime sectors. We have a unique base for maritime competence and a great potential for innovation. The government's objective is that the Norwegian maritime industries should be the most environmentally friendly in the world and take the lead in the development of new solutions. Norway has been working for international decisions on environmentally friendly shipping within the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, on the reduction in the use of heavy oil, the reduction in NOx emissions and new rules for the scrapping of ships. The actions of the strategy have helped to strengthen the entire maritime cluster, from yard and equipment providers to shipping and maritime services. We see that the number of ships in Norway has increased since the start of the 'Steak Course', and Norway is now ranked the world's fifth largest shipping nation. Maritime nutrition is the largest profession of competence we have today. There is an industry known to be the horse head in front of the wagon in the rear. Every day, there is work to go further in terms of skills, technology, change and development. I'm glad we're now presenting a budget that totals 187.6 million. kr to maritime research and innovation, while continuing the strengthening of the previous year. The interaction between State instruments and industry's own efforts to develop their products and to improve environmental technologies have helped to strengthen the competitive position of this industry. The maritime cluster is an example of an industry that works together and shares competence with each other, while competing. This interaction always contributes to the good of one another. The Labour Party and the Government have also been committed in this budget to maintaining the net pay system for Norwegian seafarers. This pot is the largest budget line in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget line here, for a total of DKK 1.75 billion. A total of 11,300 seafarers are currently covered by this scheme, which provides a stable framework for industry so that shipping companies dare to invest in several Norwegian seafarers, apprenticeship schemes and practice places. We notice, however, that the Right Cuts a total of 610 million. kr on this item. Here comes the Right's true face and shows that the will to have state schemes that help secure employment for Norwegian seafarers is high on the cut list. This is just one of many examples showing the difference between the Labour Party and the Right Labour Policy. We can now put a demanding year behind us with an international financial crisis. The government has provided offensive policies to curb rising unemployment. In the last year, the government has delivered a package of measures on the package of measures. The measures have been temporary because we are going back to the normal situation as soon as the crisis is over. Although many people experience that the situation is turning to the positive now, the maritime industry is entering more difficult times. For this reason, several measures are continued, such as: more flexible laying down rules, including in 2010. The government has made an offensive effort on an instrument like GIEK. Export finance and Innovation Norway. This has been important in order to ensure funding, focus on innovation and empowerment for more people in the export-oriented industry. It is therefore important to continue this effort. There is considerable uncertainty about how and when the market is resuming. Many fears of their jobs and incomes, and the situation may be challenging for a while to come. But there are points of light that say that the international economy is coming up again. The oil price has risen to USD 70–80 barrel, and in the oil industry a high level of investment is expected in 2010. These are positive signals that have ring-fenced effects on the activity of the marine industry on the mainland. The 2010 budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is offensive and adapted to the need for a good instrument to be able to cope with increased unemployment even in 2010. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that we not only have an active industrial policy in the Workers' Party, but that we also have an active Minister of Industry. It promises well that the right medicine will also be delivered in 2010 at the right time for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1171	The Progress Party will have a new agricultural policy, which can provide a basis for robust Norwegian food production across the country, which can offensively face international competition and which can benefit from export opportunities in a freer food trade. The Progress Party also believes that the socialist agricultural governance system is an obstacle to developing food production towards consumer considerations and away from bureaucratic constraints. The Progress Party is disappointed that the other parties in the Grand Duchy are not taking a settlement with an agricultural policy that has failed in relation to the objectives of housing, employment and income levels. The agricultural industry has undergone major upheavals and, over the last 20 years, the number of production units has been halved. Despite negative developments in low incomes and closures, production regulation policies and limited ownership continue to exist. The Progress Party considers it urgent to introduce a new agricultural policy through an entrepreneurship model in which private ownership and industrial freedom must be at the centre. The Progress Party also promotes in this budget a proposal to separate business and district policies and to ensure that the farmer regains his freedom of nutrition through full ownership and the right to manage his own production. Competition is the key prerequisite for a good entrepreneurship environment, and therefore the established mechanisms preventing this need to be phased out, such as the agricultural agreement and the administrative tasks it finances. The Progress Party promotes a number of proposals to strengthen the freedom of nutrition of the farmer, such as softening rigid production and market regulation, which restricts competition and prevents producers from developing production. The Party considers that free establishment at all stages of production must be restored and will only maintain production restrictions that ensure the environment and good animal protection. The party proposing a reduction in subsidies on production and indicates that greater freedom of nutrition will provide better income for food producers than passive support schemes provide the basis for. As the only party, we also promote proposals for a system of a billion in agricultural conversion aid to contribute to conversion and innovation. The Party considers that the agricultural industry must find its place among the usual productions seeking a market in the most undistorted form of competition. Our draft budget provides for modern framework conditions that will create new opportunities for food production across the country. Those who have followed in recent agricultural developments have been able to see that more and more farmers are now going public and criticise the government's misguided agricultural policy. It is quite serious what comes out in an interview with a farmer in the nation on 14 November: ‘as he would not agree to write fake contracts and fictional invoices, he was thrown as a ‘landlord’. [[...]] Today, the earth is driven by another farmer in nearby areas, and the billing trend makes the passive landlord appear to be a farmer in the statistics. – This is pure fraud with the money that has been paid to agriculture, and we are real farmers who are losing.’ On paper, four people can drive a dairy cow co-operative, but where maybe only one or two are drivers, while the others are farmers who apply for production subsidies even if they have a different profession, such as: lorry driver. As dairy farmer Andreas Lund says to the Nation: ‘The owner of the land can build in the Canary Islands if he wants’. A farmer says to the same newspaper that what the Minister of Agriculture is doing is counting how many subsidy forms he gets in. It says a little bit about the number of farmers, and another farmer says, ‘it is wrong that passive ‘bonds’ in this way have a suction tube into the system.’ [[...]] We also read about the farmer who, because of a loan from a private operator, has now actually gone from a 50 pst. position of a 100 pst. position, which means that he today collects the main income from the farm, which happens less frequently and less frequently. It's a paradox to only 20 pst. the farmers collect the main income from the farm, the rest from other types of work. The agricultural industry is characterised by decline and pessimism due to its framework conditions. Farmers are dissatisfied with low income opportunities and low nutrition freedom, and consumers are dissatisfied with Europe's highest food prices. Then it's just to go to New Zealand and see, where the Progress Party policy has actually worked. A country that had major problems in 1984 has been brought back to being one of the world’s leaders in exports. This is evidence that the agricultural policy pursued by the government of Stoltenberg is totally flawed. Agriculture needs an innovation that only the Progress Party can deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1212	The road to hell is, as we know, paved with good intentions. This is quite striking for agriculture. We've got an agriculture that's a limping client of politics and state. However, policy and state do not show enough interest in the development of the industry to analyse the impact, results and structure of the industry in the light of the objectives they had, the aspirations they have for the industry, and not least, the challenges they face. The industry is caught up in political rhetoric without roots in results and reality, unfortunately. I think today's debate reflects it in many ways. That is why the debate is also being polarised. The extremities go between the Centre Party and the Advance Party. The first one sees only increased transfers and further adjustments as a solution – the counter-reaction is the Progress Party's equine cure with abrupt migration to almost no transfers. Right will free the industry, but will do it in a way that gives the farmer time to adapt. The farmer has invested in confidence that the regulations are there, and must then also have a reasonable time and opportunity to free himself. The right will have a profitable and viable industry based on a rehabilitated, demedied and self-employed farmer. Property rights are best managed by the farmer himself, not by the bureaucracy. Right is satisfied that the main distinction in agricultural policy is that the Right wants ownership back to the farmer, while the Centre Party and the Red-Greens leave more of it to the bureaucracy. Agriculture is a dynamic industry. One should not believe it when following the debate, but both agriculture and forestry have had a productivity growth that few other industries can show the husband for a long time. The industries are adaptive, changeable and forward-looking – just so sin they don't think it's the way it is. Most of the instruments used in Norwegian agriculture are in the opposite direction. They preserve, and they protect, but progress is on its way. That is also why the policy is as unsuccessful as we see it to be. Agriculture is a tangible thing. You have a lot of land, and you grow it. You see what you do every day. Not everyone – not least about us in this room – is doing it. But a given land area is also fixed. The size of a property is a given size and is a limitation on how much return a property can give. High productivity growth, as I mentioned earlier, is reflected in the fact that each farmer spends less time than the year before to achieve the same result. The farm becomes ‘less and less’ in relation to labour input. What happens then? Well, the farmer has to either expand the area or find other things to spend time on. These are processes that are going on continuously, but the policy does not recognise it and talk about completely different things. As a result, agricultural policy is lagging behind the development of industry, and if it is not on track, there is a risk of an unmotivated industry. Agriculture is important. The individual farmer must have the freedom to meet the challenges in his own way. This is also important for the food industry. Nor can the food industry thrive and develop without offensive and forward-looking agriculture. Norway is a small, open country. Our well-being is built on trade. Norway must focus on opportunities and not on fear. Trade is for our benefit. I think Norwegian agriculture will also cope well with future changes, but they must be prepared. The farmer has shown his adaptability. He has managed to adapt to the policy. There is no reason to believe that he will not succeed in the future as well, but then the individual must have the right to dispose of his own property and manage his own strategies. Only in that way will we be able to have a forward-looking diet that takes on the challenges that are coming and that has confidence enough to believe that they will deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1227	Unlike the representative, Mr Gundersen, I think it is very positive to say about the year's budget for the agricultural area. Firstly, it confirms the negotiated agricultural agreement, a business agreement that has facilitated an income growth of SEK 73 000 from 2006 to 2010 and that provides for an almost similar development in agriculture to that of other groups in society over the four years of the red-green governance – agreements that the Progress Party and the Right have voted against. Government parties stress in their comments that the main task of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population. In addition, we want agricultural policy to be the basis of industries and experiences in the fields of land, tourism, the food industry, open cultural landscapes and biodiversity. Then we can achieve the goal of living, diverse and sustainable agriculture and forestry across the country. I think we have to admit that forestry has been treated as a policy area in the past – perhaps as a result of a lack of understanding and understanding. It was uplifting that we started upgrading and modernising forest policy already in the 2006 budget. This has continued in recent years and is now becoming widespread, among other things. also through the treatment of St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture as part of the solution. Here it is undeniable that active forestry with renewal, plant processing and forest planting, fresh and productive forest is the prerequisite for the forest to absorb the maximum of CO2 and, in addition, we get jobs and income as a bonus. It's rare to get both bag and bag. In this area, let's do that. These are activities and revenues that are urgently needed in many districts. If we go back one year and read the budget position of the Business Committee, we see that for example. The left was strongly critical of this view of the forest as a tool in the climate struggle. I refer to the line we just had about that particular issue. The majority of the Committee is committed to a change of pace with regard to the creation of new alternative additional jobs in the peripheral zone of traditional agriculture. The potential of mountain areas can certainly be better exploited, preferably in interaction with other industries. Innovation is a keyword in this context. Special attention should be paid to local and regional food and food culture, garden tourism and business development related to travel and experiences, hunting and fishing tourism. But the very foundation, the foundation, for this lies in the efficient production of milk, meat and cereals. The production of these basic raw materials shall continue to be profitable. That's the basis for our processing industry, and this happy interdependence creates activity and an economy that makes it possible to achieve the other development processes that I've been through. There is a shock message that the right parties, first and foremost the Advance Party, send to the agricultural actors. Firstly, they voted against the agreement, and secondly, the huge cuts, which, for the Progress Party, amount to DKK 7.5 billion. It's a rage. One loss of revenue of the order of DK 129 000 per year. annual work is such that one must have nearly optimal operating conditions in order to survive as a farmer. Then the marginal areas westwards and northwards will be phased out, and the relocation from the countryside will be dramatically reinforced. The tourism industry would lose one of its most important elements in the marketing of Norway, namely living cultural landscapes in use, with people in the houses. That's what the travel industry needs. We are about to start with a big message about agriculture. I understand that there is a message an overall big deal looking forward to getting on the table. I look forward to a broad process of reporting, so that all conditions affecting agriculture throughout the country are elucidated. Then we will have the opportunity to discuss all aspects of agricultural policy. It'll be a very important work. It'll be exciting. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1247	This government has provided a very good budget for creating and sharing. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, our red-green government has ruled safely through the financial crisis. We have taken action that has worked, and Norway has therefore done very well through the financial crisis. Prime Minister Stoltenberg's clear goal was that we should have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe even after the financial crisis was over. We're going to achieve that goal. That being said, I would warn against believing that the financial crisis is facing all sectors, because it is not. The export-oriented industry is still facing major challenges. One example here is the aluminium industry. He's tired. Corner work places are at risk in several places in the country. The budget is expansive, but within a defensive framework. Once again, the government proves that taking care of the workplace and having tools to create new jobs is – and will – the most important thing. The alarm from the opposition, too small and too late, has shown a complete error. The medicine against the financial crisis has proved to be both accurate and timely. An example is the increase in Innovation Norway, by 26 pst. from 2009 to 2010. This is what the opposition has called a significant reduction. It is also forgotten that the progressive party government from the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party does not even set aside funds to fill up the municipal food funds. Our instrumentation equipment, including: Innovation Norway and SIVA are under evaluation. Here, an assessment shall be made of the composition of the company's services, the availability of users and the socio-economic impact of the company's activities. We in the Labour Party are particularly concerned with the employment effect and that Innovation Norway has a flexible tool that captures business needs. I would like to stress that Innovation Norway is active among others. shall correct for failure of the private financial markets. It is important that the state has a broad commitment to industrial policy to participate in innovation and competitive business across our entire country. Does Innovation Norway have the right tool? Has Innovation Norway worked after the intention? Is there room for improvement? It is important that we take the discussion and evaluate both SIVA and Innovation Norway, as the Government has stated. Overall, these evaluations will provide a good basis for an assessment of the public tools’ future tasks and organisation and any changes in priorities and objectives. We will also gain insight into the activities. There are innumerable examples of companies that would never have seen the light of day if we hadn't had Innovation Norway. I can cite two examples from the provinces, Saga Fjordbase in Florø and Traxa in Høyanger. It's about a lot of jobs. It's about a lot of singles. It's about a lot of families, and it's about a lot of communities. The working party is very satisfied that a new environmental technology investment aid scheme is being set up and that this scheme will be reinforced by an additional 40 million. kr in addition to what was originally submitted by the Government. The scheme will promote and stimulate several environmental technology projects and will strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the longer term. I'll also take that 100 million. kr is the ear-marked commitment of 2nd generation biofuels, so that it becomes more environmentally friendly. Another question we have to ask ourselves is whether our law is well enough suited to the needs of our smallest businesses. I am very pleased that the Labour Party in the Government has taken the initiative and started work to assess the Norwegian legislation, including the share law, accounting law and also the worrying take-up of NUF establishments. The government has also announced that it will develop a business policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have a broad perspective on how to facilitate growth and development in these enterprises. Dialogue between authorities, industry and trade unions is important in order to further develop good conditions for our small and medium-sized enterprises, including looking more closely at simplification. The working party is also concerned with ongoing assessments and strengthening the industry-related research. That's how we create tomorrow's nourishments. Finally, I would like to stress that value creation and production are a means of creating so that we can share good welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1276	The government aims to make Norway one of the leading knowledge-based economies in the areas in which we take precedence. The marine sector is one of these areas. Our natural conditions and long traditions in fisheries and aquaculture provide a unique starting point for international competitiveness. Norway has a special opportunity linked to our position in the north and on the coast. The wild marine resources and the associated genetic material are the property of the community. This shall be ensured for future generations through sustainable management. The Norwegian-Russian Joint Environmental Status Report for the Barents Sea has just been presented for the first time. It shows that largely the state of the environment in the Barents Sea is good. Many of the previously unreported and illegal fishing activities are now severely reduced and the large fish stocks are at a high level. At the same time, however, the report states that concerns are related to the effects of climate change, the spread of alien species, damage caused by radiation and still low levels of commercial fish stocks due to past intensive fishing. The report also highlights the fact that the Barents Sea is on the threshold of the oil and gas age, and concludes that to meet these changes and maintain the current relatively good environmental status requires increased environmental monitoring and coordinated Norwegian-Russian environmental monitoring and management efforts. The political platform of this government takes good management and environmental considerations into account in fisheries and aquaculture policy. The government will have a strong focus on strengthening knowledge of the impacts of climate change on marine ecosystems and coastal business, as well as strengthening marine research. The 2010 budget follows this up with proposals for increased appropriations to strengthen the knowledge base related to sustainable management of the fisheries and aquaculture industry, climate and renewable energy, as well as to strengthen research on the impact of climate change on marine life. The government has granted $5 million. to the Centre of Competence for Safe Seas, Oil Preparedness and Monitoring in relation to the Vardø Traffic Centre. The tug capacity in North Norway and the South is reinforced by 127 million. kr to ensure three full-year towing vessels in North Norway and one daily vessel in the South. In the case of oil protection equipment, it is foreseen to continue the exceptional level of appropriations from 2009 to replace oil protection equipment, etc., worth 122 million. kr above the level of appropriations in 2005. This is in line with the Coastal Museum's 2006 report. If Norway is to be the world’s best maritime navigation, we need to be at the forefront of knowledge in areas such as sustainable resource use, marine environment, climate, product development and market. Therefore, this government will strengthen marine research and stimulate conversion and innovation. The fisheries and aquaculture industry shall be based on our advantage with access to high-quality fresh raw material and shall also facilitate further processing in Norway, including: by ensuring a stable full-year supply of raw material to industry. Further growth in the aquaculture industry shall be facilitated within sustainable frameworks, and the work on escape and salmonids is, and will be, a high priority. Unlike the Advance Party, the Government will have a varied fleet and fair allocation of fishing resources to help secure employment and coastal settlement. It is not good to understand where the Progress Party wants to deal with Norwegian fisheries policy. During the examination of the liquidity mechanism, there was no way in which the Progress Party was occupied by all the small communities along our coast, while the Progress Party and the Right in a note in the budget position now says: « it is important for the marine industry to adapt the framework conditions to an international competitive situation. [[...]] These members consider, in this context, that the funds need to be used for innovation actions and not for district policy.’;» This government believes that the value creation of our common fisheries resources should benefit the fisheries-dependent coastal communities as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1303	The main task of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast is to manage the living organisms of the sea in the perspective of eternity. Without good resource and marine management, the basis for the activities of the industries based on the harvesting of natural resources or the exploitation of the production potential of the sea and coastal areas is weakened, e.g.: aquaculture activities. It is gratifying to note that the state of all our main fish stocks today is better than in a very long time. In the Barents Sea, researchers have not measured such quantities of fish since the war, and in the Norwegian Sea there is so much herring, mackerel and colt that they start asking questions about whether the food production of these species is large enough. In view of the fact that raw material access is crucial to the ability of industry to succeed in the market, the future looks relatively bright. The dark clouds we see are mainly those that hang on to the hard hit of the financial crisis in the whitefish industry. However, despite the financial crisis, 2009 will provide another record in the export value of Norwegian seafood. The 2008 increase will be around 10 pst. Another challenge is the coastal cod, both north and south, which will be our biggest administrative challenge in the coming years. There is a need for both increased knowledge and stricter regulatory measures, but we have no responsible alternative. We have to fish less coastal cod. The main objective of fisheries and aquaculture management is to contribute to ensuring an environmentally sustainable fisheries and aquaculture industry. There is an increasing demand for administrative knowledge and research. Administrative marine research is reinforced by 39 million in the 2010 budget. kr, with a main focus on climate change, ecosystem-based management and environmental sustainability in the aquaculture industry. The biggest challenge of our time is climate change. The temperature in the sea is rising, and the sea is taking up more and more CO2 that makes the water more acidic. We need more knowledge about how and how quickly changes will affect plankton, eggs, larvae, corals, fish and shellfish. We also strengthen research on fjord ecology and environmental sustainability in the aquaculture industry. Over about 40 years, the aquaculture industry has evolved from almost nothing to become an important export industry, representing more than 50 pst. of the export value of seafood. We have a long coast that has natural advantages for farming and a varied economic structure with both small and large breeders. Government policy facilitates the maintenance of this structure. It is important for value creation and employment in districts. However, with breeding, there are several environmental challenges, as it does with all other human activities. We have to accept that it is not possible to use nature for production purposes without any trace. The question we have to address is how powerful a track we are willing to accept. The main challenges for getting closer to an answer are discussed in the Government’s sustainability strategy, which will be an important premise for the Government’s further work. There is potential for improvement related to land use and operation. To solve these challenges and at the same time maintain a viable industry with varied structures, we need to make wise choices in the time to come. In view of the serious lice situation along the coast, the Government has decided to postpone the decision on capacity increase in 2010. The situation has been gripped by both industry and government. But we want to make sure that the efforts to combat salmonnus provide the necessary results, before we take a final position on capacity increase in 2010. Helga Pedersen had the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing as one of her main issues, and she achieved very good results. I can assure you that I am following up this work, and the effort against UUU fishing has therefore continued at the same high level as last year. As the big picture is, there is every reason to believe that the fisheries and aquaculture industry will also in the years to come ensure good and profitable jobs and increasing coastal value creation. Continued commitment to research and knowledge development shall ensure that we make wise and balanced choices, which ensure the basis for sustainable fisheries and aquaculture management in all ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1339	The loop problem and the extension of the maximum permitted biomass within the farming industry is one of the major problems that have recently been identified in the media. Last week's Tuesday, the Committee gave its opinion on the part of the Government's parties. states the following: ‘will point out that it is positive that the Government is adding up to a controlled growth in the aquaculture industry and that it is projected that the growth will be taken out in the form of increased production capacity for existing permits’.» [[...]] On the day on which the Committee gave its opinion, the Minister for Fisheries suspended its entry into force. In this regard, I would like to recall the Basic Law § 75 d, which indicates that the Stortinget grants money, and the Stortinget has done so through the financial position. My question to the Council of State is this: Where is the authority of the Council of State to withdraw this, all the time allocated to 360 million? kr that has also been used in the state budget, and when will there be a proposition where you withdraw it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1353	Based on the information we provided on the salmon situation on the coast, I decided that we should postpone the decision on the capacity increase in 2010. Appropriations for revenue of 360 million. kr related to the consideration for increased MTB is not proposed to be reduced or withdrawn. This is because it was initially about postponing the decision until spring 2010 to assure us that the efforts to combat salmonmus provide the necessary results, before we decide on the capacity increase in 2010. If the situation is not controlled and there is no basis for the whole or any part of the capacity increase, the Government will have to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1362	I'd like to follow up that bit. It is clear that when the Storting makes its decisions, they are taken on the basis of what is available from the government and from the present document. When the Storting has then taken its decisions through its financial position, it has been taken into account what is involved in the income and expenditure side, which is then again distributed to the individual committees. Are there also other items in this budget, or in other areas, that you don't know what to do with, and that you can risk postponing because you might not get a bigger deficit in the government budget than you actually do? And if the government doesn't grant this money, or does these expansions, you've weakened the budget balance by 360 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is this: Is the Council of State comfortable with that situation, or will she come back to the Storting and make sure that we get a thorough explanation of what is the background? As far as the problem of salmonids is concerned, the non-existent one is in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, so why is this generally done?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1369	Finally, as regards the situation in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, the representative is clearly right. There's no big lice problems. There's the situation that there's a lot of access to MTB. It is far from being used today, so I have not heard any collective calls from the north to complete the MTB extension now. Then it is that in practice it can in any case not be used until it has to melt in the sea. I have no cases within my budget corresponding to the MTB case. That's the decision that's being postponed, and if it turns out we have to change it, of course I'll come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. In addition, I hear that there is a question about the process. These are stock exchange-sensitive issues, which means that I will deal with them under the Exchange legislation related to the MTB extension. But I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way if it turns out that we are not implementing it as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1376	The suspension of the capacity increase, which we have just discussed, was necessary – quite obvious – for all, because the Council of State was in many ways in a situation of coercion. What's the problem with this is that we have an industry that has prepared for predictability. They've known what was going to happen, and they've been in the process of adjusting to it. What is also important is that the Council of State will soon come back to the Stortinget with, or for that matter at least to the industry with, is a decision. So, a postponement was necessary, but it's also important that a decision be made, and maybe also that you know when it comes. That it's all just floating, and you don't really know what's being done, is one of the worst things that can be for an industry. What kind of thoughts does the Council of State have about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1385	I am also very much in favour of stable framework conditions for everyone, including the aquaculture industry. As for the time when it makes sense to reconsider the question, I think the industry is very well aware of that. It is related when they have an overview of the measures taken that have had an impact. The most important thing for me is to make sure that when they wanted the salmon kids going out of the rivers and out into the sea, they can cross a coast without being caught. So that's also the way I said in my previous answer, that the aquaculture industry has cycles. It's connected when the melt goes into the sea. I guess that's what's the time when the farming industry is most busy clarifying the possible MTB expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1394	There has been turbulence around the farming industry in the autumn, and the government has had a major challenge with a fisheries minister who is the joint owner of Sinkaberg-Hansen. The government has finally appointed Minister of Industry Trond Giske as Minister of State for Inhalation. However, the question is whether Norway is served by a fisheries minister who cannot address one of the most important challenges in his area. This is further updated by the fact that the fisheries manager has significant interests in the farming industry. The Fisheries Director’s company was recently fined for having had too much fish in the mermaids. It seems today that there are too many in the top fisheries management in this country who have interests in the farming industry. Unfortunately, this may also complicate the management of the acute crisis associated with salmontus. Does the Council agree that it is fundamentally unfortunate that public regulators have such large interests in industries they are set to regulate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1403	With regard to the question of the stability of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, I refer you to the answer from the Department of Justice, which says that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is mainly havoc to assess general policy issues related to the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The exemption is, of course, directly linked to the company mentioned here. Then I will declare myself inhabitable, and the stalwart council Trond Giske will take over. It may also take place in some individual cases, in individual areas, in the traditional fishing industry, with a background to previous management tasks. I just have to say that for my own part at least I am very happy that I have the background I have. It feels much easier to get into the challenges that are on the coast, and I'm going to do my job the best way out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1411	I intend to shift some focus on my next question and focus more on the situation that has arisen in relation to mackerel fishing – on some of the problems that may arise up to next year in connection with the fact that the remaining quota for the current year has been said by the authorities about. 50000 tonnes of mackerel shall be transferred to the following year. My question to the Council of State is this: have you also looked at where this fish can be fished? It has been agreed with the EU system that it can be fished in the EU zone, or we can risk, as we per Today, without a fisheries agreement with the EU, is it not possible for us to have the opportunity we have had in the past to fish south of 62th latitude and east of 4 degrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1418	The failure to establish an agreement with the EU means that Norwegian fishermen must fish in the Norwegian zone, and EU fishermen must fish in the EU zone. I actually don't think it's Norwegian fishermen who have the most to lose on. But when that is said, I would say that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department will set mackerel quotas for 2010 in line with the corresponding 2009 scheme, adjusted, of course, according to the ICES quota advice. We will also include what was not fished last year, and transfer it to next year. We've had discussions with the fishing industry's organisations all along, and what we're doing now is being fully supported by business organisations. In addition, industry says that they believe that the reception capacity will not be limited even if quotas increase in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1425	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1430	The Fisheries Directorate’s consultation note on coastal cod management in South Norway states that the situation of cod stocks on the Skagerrak coast is critical. The stock is not sustainably managed. The spawning stock is below the critical level. Here's what it says: ‘The number of cods aged 1 year and over, measured by means of coastal sequestration, has been greatly reduced in the last ten years and has never been lower.’ In the last three years the Economic and Social Committee in Stortinget has expressed concerns about cod stocks on the coast of Skagerrak. We have pointed out the clear warnings and the need for action to help restore cod stocks before it is too late. It is soon not possible to hang a handcuff in the fjords on the Eastfold, Westfold and Telemark coasts with reasonable hope of catching. Local fishermen say that the cod is simply gone, and there is no particular doubt about the reason: a significant overfishing over several years plus a strong growth in the stock of sprats and seals. There are not so many who live by fishing on this coastline anymore. In the Norwegian context, of course, it is of little importance, but the value of this fishing may be greater than the purely nutritional significance of it. It's two million people who use this coastline as a recreational area, and I don't think future generations will look in our mercy if we now stand so that the cod gets away from our areas forever and ever. The scientists are clear in their instructions. There is a need for restrictions on both professional and recreational fishing – ranging from tool limitations to the introduction of protection areas and periods of protection. In addition, we must get rid of the devastating lightfish after sprating far into the fjords, where the lightfishers remove the food dish for other fish species. Researchers will now have a ban on light fishing at depths below 100 metres, and that is a good suggestion. But above all, we need to get a lookout that is capable of controlling fishing in our fjords, whether it be cod, lobster or eel. We've had that before, and I really don't understand that this needs to take so long. Let me also remind you that the Business Committee, when dealing with the structural notification, opened up co-fishing – not because we wanted to reintroduce the operating system, but because we wanted to allow fishermen to fish together in the smallest groups of vessels, for safety reasons. In its time, the Norwegian Fisheries Team made an excellent proposal for a co-fishing scheme which at least deserves to be tried.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1448	I Prop. 48 The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is presenting some amendments to the 2009 State budget. Most of the changes are of a technical nature and are entirely OK. The Committee has been set up, inter alia: in its comments on Altin, which has reached 22 million. kr more expensive than the estimate at the time of conclusion of the contract. A new power plant in New Ålesund is deferred, as a review of costs shows that both the operating costs and the maintenance costs would be significantly higher than originally assessed. The Committee has also noted that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has comments on Mesta AS. Otherwise, there are some specific comments from the government parties and opposition parties. For the Progress Party, we will point to the increasing use of consultants. We understand that it needs to be used, but ask for a more careful use. The Progress Party and the Right have a joint comment on Entra Eiendom A/S. These include: surprised that the company with the support of the owner now sells construction of a type that was the basis for the formation of the company. The Progress Party and the Right also have a minority proposal, which reads: «The decision authorises the Government to sell the State’s interests in Entra Eiendom A/S to 0 pst.» I think this was registered as a proposal earlier today. If not, I'll promote this. Otherwise, the recommendation of an overall committee is supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1468	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1471	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says that an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business should be facilitated. In this way, the typical rural industries are not an exception. Nor is there anything old-fashioned and immaterial in the debate on industrial policy. These are industries for which it is essential to maintain and manage properly and properly. In the light of recent global food crises, I think more and more people are realizing that professionals in these industries have some of the world's most important jobs. I think it's worrying if there's a construction of contradictions between these two industries here to land. Although the fishing industry exports large parts of its output and the agricultural industry produces most for the national market, these industries have very much in common. Both industries remain essential for the overall production of food and for the settlement here to land. This is one of the most important things to ensure for the future. Today, when right-wing parties seem to be more concerned with less governance and more business neutrality for these industries than with food security and housing in the districts, this says a lot about what this policy really stands for. For Norway, it must be important to balance policies so that Norway can be the world’s leading maritime nation, while at the same time, among other things, we can. has a varied fleet structure, a sustainable farming industry and living coastal communities. At the same time, we are going to maintain a living agriculture across the country, with a varied structure of use and with a cultural landscape in claim. Without this combination of local industries, the goal of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern could not be maintained, nor would it be life-created for other industries in the districts. For example, we can. imagine the tourism industry – a trip along the Norwegian coast with Hurtigruten, where tourists can only see re-growth of cultural landscapes and dead fishing communities. What kind of future would the travel industry have in our country? It is therefore so important that the fisheries and agricultural industries are also involved in an industrial policy that is innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly. I'm glad we have a government and a large number of people who have such goals. This budget also carries a bid for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1490	One of the biggest lines of division between the opposition and the position in the Stortinget is when it comes to agricultural policy. The progress party cuts over NOK 6 billion in an already negotiated agreement, while the right cutters 2 billion. Throughout the election campaign, the local representative of the Advance Party in Uppland said that it was not such a violent cut in one year – it was to be taken after transitional arrangements were in place. On the Bondelage’s websites, we read: ‘It was said by several that the FRP programme for agriculture ‘must not be taken literally!’ This was said when the farmers met the representatives of the Progress Party in summer camp in Telemark. In addition, it says: ‘Some also admitted that they were part of FrP despite, and were not deleted because of, the agricultural policy programmed. The proposals of the Storing Group to halve the financial support for agriculture overnight are seen as inedible among those who are going to front Frp across the country.’ On the same website we can see that the representative Eriksson in the election campaign said that he would neither strengthen nor weaken import protection. ‘It is not possible to remove the entire import protection system. Then we don't make the market work. First, we must liberalise the domestic market, otherwise everything will be broken up,’ said Eriksson on a visit to Trøndelag. Having seen the 2010 draft budget of the Progress Party, I can only understand that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is exactly what several of the delegates in Telemark thought it was: inedible. This is nothing more than a total and radical change in agricultural policy — not over a long period of time, but just overnight. Not only does the Kitterkrit party smooth $6 billion, but they also cut compensation for predatory damage. Is it so that the representative of the Progress Party believes that what he described as the beautiful districts of Hedmark will be more beautiful and have more to offer tourists with the policies of the Advance Party by going in to cut over 129 000 kroner per year? agricultural annual work for 2010? Has the representative, Mr Bredvold, considered the consequences for his own country? For me, with my knowledge of e.g. Hedmark County, it will be a natural consequence that if you cut as drastically in agricultural aid as this is added, even the biggest uses along Mjøsa will go doll. But there is at least one point of light: if there is no farm in the Østerdalen, in Trysil, in Glamdalen, or in Hedmark, I realize that it is tempting to cut off the payments for wild game replacement. It's not so dangerous whether it's predators if it doesn't live there, or if there's nothing else to eat than elk. The Progress Party repeats its budget cuts for agriculture, while the grassroots maritime sector clearly considers that agricultural policy must not be taken seriously and calls the budget ‘indispensable’. I would have appreciated if the Progress Party could respond to whether the draft budget for agriculture is to be seen as a play budget which must not be taken literally, as the grassroots in the Progress Party clearly believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1529	Unfortunately, business policy is not one of the most common political issues in the population. And it certainly shouldn't be like that. Active enterprise policies should and should be one of the most important things we work with. It requires politicians to be active. It was easier before, because today’s legislation means a different political role than before, with less political governance and less State aid. But we still have tools. It must be developed and used. The stronger and more open international competition, the more important it is that we use the tools we have. That is why we must have a good interaction between the market and the public, between the companies and the state. We need to look at possibilities and be creative. The Government Party will actively participate in industrial and regional development with industry and industry organisations. Business policy is about a lot. If we look at it very much, we can say that kindergarten policy, schooling and education policy, gender policy, etc. – yes, all welfare policies – it is business policy. There's a connection between creating and sharing. Countries that are good at creating will also be good at sharing. And safe human beings are creative human beings. It might sound boring, but I have to start with the words: order of the economy. Not everyone understands the content of these words. A stable exchange rate, low inflation, low interest rates and defensive budgetary policies are decisive for the profitability of Norwegian businesses. In addition, we need to strengthen both private and public research and innovation, so that we have legs to stand on even after the oil. The innovation message, which the Stortinge treats in ours, provides a good basis for this. Therefore, it is important that the actions in the message are followed up. Competence must be a driving force in the process of conversion, renewal and re-establishment. Our natural resources are, and should still be, the driving force in the creation of wealth throughout the country. Innovation Norway is an important instrument that must have both the money and the right skills to help business when the need is at a vulnerable start-up stage. Innovation Norway is now under evaluation and it will be exciting to see the outcome of this work. The State must take responsibility for ensuring efficient infrastructure. There must be a holistic and efficient transport policy with investment and means enough to operate, and road and broadband maintenance must be ensured for all parts of the country. Furthermore, Norwegian industry must secure enough energy at a competitive price. And we have to be willing to use the gas more in Norway. We should also be best at the environment in the world. It is important to communicate now when the whole world is gathering in Copenhagen to discuss the climate challenges. It is possible to use the oil and the gas for industrial purposes at the same time as the best in the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1555	I want to address two points: ownership of business and green industries. Enterprise policy can in principle be pursued through two different ownership – under limited responsibilities, for example: limited liability companies, or by unlimited liability, e.g. sea-going operator. There are very many sea-going traders, yes, the largest group of traders are sea-going traders. One point that is very crucial if you are willing to enter as a sea-going trader is to be safe under disease. Sick business today has 16 waiting days, and the sickness allowance corresponds to 65 pst. the income after 16 days. For the Central Party, it is very central to improving the sick pay after 16 days, from 65 pst. up to about 90 pst., as a natural level. This may be financed in the form of an appropriation for the State budget, as set out in the Annex to this Decision. as it is for employees, or, alternatively, by increasing social security contributions on entrepreneurial income. It's an important question to address. The green industries must replace the oil and gas era, and the processing of renewable resources will be central. I am pleased that the Business Committee will go to Husøy on Senja and look at the challenges of fishing industries. It's an epoch that I'm glad that the committee is now going into. We have discussed much about forestry and renewable carbon. It is very gratifying that the Government has granted 100 million. kr earmarked for 2nd generation biofuels and for renewable carbon, which may also form the basis for plastic raw material in cars to replace the oil and gas based plastic raw material. However, what is a major challenge is the development of agriculture. Agricultural conditions are now very similar to those in 1970. It is the most persevering industries that continue to evolve in a hope for the future, long after the business economy had to ensure that operations were closed down. The Right Party and the Central Party have a diametrically different view of agricultural policy. Right-wing policy can be seen only by looking at Denmark, with a debt-reducing industrial agriculture that is now in a fundamental crisis. For the development of agriculture, it is important to dry out what is real — and reality is very critical in large parts of the country. Therefore, it is now important to focus on what is the most central in the climate issue, namely the use of land. Land used for agriculture in Norway needs to be increased, both inland and land. The fertility of the soil must be improved by burrowing and liming in order to improve growing conditions and thus to make better use of the fertiliser used. Here's the big challenge. Land needs to be increased and fertility needs to be improved. Thus, we can take our responsibility by developing our opportunities, given the topography and climatic conditions we have, in an international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1570	The stork is now interrupting its negotiations for Christmas, and the meeting will be held again at noon. 16:00. The first speaker in the afternoon's meeting is Ingrid Heggo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1620	Travel life has been a red thread in the industrial policy effort of this government. In 2005, the investment in tourism via Innovation Norway amounted to 100 million. kr. In the 2010 budget, the investment is 250 million. kr. It's actually an increase of 150 pst. Norway has special opportunities linked to our position in the north and on the coast. We have both mountains and fjords. We have islands, and we have inland. Fjord Norway is once again in line for the world's best destinations. I'm glad we have a government that might see the connection between cultural landscape care, living countryside and agriculture. A valuable experience is at the very height of tourists, and that's what we're going to give them. If we're going to bet on travel, we can't leave the governance of those who want to ruin our cultural landscape, those who don't see the consequences of their own policies in full. Or is it the value of small and living builders a not able to see? Some of the challenges related to travel life in the districts are a lack of annual work places. Therefore, the expansion of the season is so important. These are important jobs throughout the country, but especially in the districts where tourism for many is an important source of nutrition. This applies both to farmers and to fishermen. There is a choice of actors within the distribution network for travel life, and it would be challenging to gather all of these to go in the same direction – to get joint marketing, to work together for common benefit and not to sit alone on their own. I'd like to pay tribute to our three northernmost states, which have managed to gather and get in place a common Nordic travel company, North Norwegian travel life As. This should also be looked at by other states. Only in my state is the entire eleven destinations company with small and large sizes. We're not in target when it comes to setting up a national booking solution, which should be linked to visitnorway.no. It is important that this work continues and that it is further developed. The government has also said that it wants to introduce a voluntary certification scheme for companies that want to market themselves as part of the Norwegian brand. I would like to point out that it is important that this is well anchored in the industry. Deciding for the experience of Norway as a destination, they have added their competence. I am therefore pleased that Innovation Norway is developing and implementing a business-right competence development programme. Of the funds, it's set at 10 million. kr that are ear-tagged for this purpose. In fact, the public funds we have contributed will be doubled, as the industry itself will have to participate in the same way as the Innovation Norway does. This is probably spending money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1635	I have just a few comments to previous speakers – to the extent that not so much to the Labour Party representative as before the break said that industrial policy does not capsize the population. It must depend on what contacts you have. I hear something quite different from the contacts we have, not least from the yard industry and the supplier industry. That is why it is a little interesting, as the Minister of Industry said today, with regard to the observation from the majority parties that action in the maritime sector must be taken if necessary. After giving a description of how difficult it is, the Minister of Industry said in a row that this will happen when the time comes. I believe that the time – regardless of development – must be within the revised national budget at the latest to provide a description of where we are and where we may be going. So a comment on this with the net pay scheme, which several speakers have been talking about, especially the representative Bottom of the Workers' Party. It is such that this is a distortion of competition. Right, it's a long way to go, but it's not fully supported. Fishing activities and others feel this is a very confusing measure. I think it's a little weird when, for example. The representative Botten, who is very concerned about the maritime sector, describes how the state is there, and what may eventually be needed. The right-hand side uses some of the cut to improve arrangements for the maritime sector, the shipbuilding industry and for the supplier industry. You can't forget that in the middle of all of this. I also want to point out one relation to the net pay scheme, and I have never quite understood it – perhaps someday someone can explain it to me. Net pay means that a shipowner on his bottom line gets a larger amount than you would otherwise have, because the costs are getting smaller. That money can be used to invest in other types of operating equipment. But in the tax debate, property taxes will be considered by the same parties in a completely different way. This does not at all contribute to new investments. The money ends up in the exact same place. One is useful for investment; the other is tax relief for the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1646	I ask for the word to comment on an important district industry that has not received so much attention. I'm thinking about the mineral industry. In 2008, mineral raw materials were sold for over 11 billion kroner, and the industry generates export revenues of 7.2 billion kroner and jobs of 4 800 years. Not least in the north, this industry is important, but also in the country, this industry represents very important job and income opportunities in many communities. A lot of positive has happened during this government in relation to the industry. Last spring, Stortinget adopted a new mineral law that simplifies the legislation itself, but demands companies competence and environmental efforts. The law stimulates increased exploration and extraction of resources. From 1 January 2010, the Bergvessenet will become a directorate and will be the central government procedural and administrative body, but it is also assumed to be a centre of excellence that the industry can use. In my view, the industry should now, together with the relevant bodies of competence and the authorities, gather to develop a national mining and mineral strategy. As I see it, it is important that the directorate be upgraded both in terms of competence and capacity. This is also particularly important in relation to the many mines closed and of which the State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the owner under the fall-back law. It is striking that the communities with state-owned mines almost feel abandoned by the state. I know that most communities in this situation feel like a distant, indifferent and uninterested mine – that is, the very opposite of what the fall-back institute should represent. In my view – and this comes from the heart, having been messing with these issues for many years – I now hope that the new, competent Minister of Industry will focus on this area. It is necessary that the State signal the willingness to take responsibility. State-owned pollution challenges must also be taken seriously. It is necessary to restore confidence in the State as owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1657	We have heard it today, we have heard it before, and we are still going to hear it: no matter what committee's budget we are discussing – whether it is a financial debate or another debate – we are constantly hearing that you are dissatisfied, and you continue to run on that discontent strategy. We just have to be open to that. Business has had and will continue to have good framework conditions in this country. We have therefore had stronger growth in recent years than the EU average, and have also shown that Norwegian companies are also competitive in a global market. I also think it is important to remember that in the previous period more new jobs were created than in any other four-year period since the 1950s. In addition, we are facilitating innovation and research to develop both new jobs and the jobs we have today. Everyone is aware that we are in a troubled time. We're in a financial crisis that I think the government has dealt with in an excellent way. Imagine that we have a unemployment rate that is not fully up to 4 pst. If we compare ourselves with other countries, we're pretty good here in Norway. But we have too many free hands, and it's not for nothing that Trond Giske has run the electoral race around the country to get into the situation and look at the possibilities of minimising the situation in the best possible way. I would also like to draw attention to the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, New Building Stones in the North, and that the North Region Initiative will also focus on the development of industry on land. Finally, what has also been discussed here today is the new guarantee scheme for long-term agreements for powerful industry, with a framework of DKK 20 billion. I can promise you one thing: if it hadn't been for this government, we wouldn't have had anything. I think the opposition should now take over the way this is handled, because what the Bondevik II government said, was that one should put it in a drawer and not do anything about it. I was at that time in 2004, when we said we should look at the possibilities of getting a power regime in place. We have built stone for stone, it has taken a very long time, but it has come into place – with something that both companies have been satisfied with, and not least that the trade movement has been satisfied with. And then we're going to have to adjust the rate from that. But as I said, we wouldn't have had anything if it had been up to the Bondevik II government. If you want to be honest with yourself, you know that, those who sit in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1670	Today's Business Today we can read about the situation of wild caught stocks, where it is said, among other things. ‘The conclusion of the country’s compatriots is crystal clear: the Villax populations are in the majority of the rivers in such a critical constitution that new and much more stringent restrictions on fishing are absolutely necessary.’ It is important to stress that there are complex reasons why the wild species now has problems. The farming industry alone is not the cause of the problems we face. A professional and ecosystem-based approach to this challenge must be to see the overall burden in the context and to reduce the burden on ecosystems and on the wild species – in this case – so as to be below the natural limit of tolerance. The breeding industry is historically a quite new industry, which has been in rapid growth. If we look at e.g. the process industry, how it has developed in Norway, has developed in a dynamic between initiative and development from the industry itself and regulatory requirements. It has made us today the world's purest process industry, of which we are proud. There are complex reasons why the wild axis is under pressure, but the more important it is that we are resolute and take clear action on the factors that we actually have control of. We can't sit in a situation where our grandchildren get to experience the wild axis only on film or maybe based on the stories we're telling. It is also necessary to develop the breeding industry in a balance where regulatory requirements contribute to the development of the industry so that it operates sustainably. It is now clear that much stronger action and stricter requirements are needed in the years to come to ensure that the industry operates sustainably. That is why I am concerned and concerned that the Minister for Fisheries and the Government so often indicates that it is confident that the industry itself will solve these problems. When we have seen that we are reacting late to professional advice, and we have experience that the government is also lagging behind in other environmental issues, I'm worried about the development, because all the signs show us that healthy development requires even stronger action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1686	Agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. Let me refer to some figures for the value chain in agriculture and forestry, which are from 2007: they show that the total value of production was DKK 132 billion and the number of annual jobs employed was 125 000. That's big numbers. The main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population. It is also important to see Norwegian food production in an international perspective. One billion of the world's population is starving today, and we are facing a future food crisis. We know that the world's population will increase in the next few years, and that by 2050 we will be about nine billion people on earth. This means that we need to double the food production during this period in order to feed the world's population. With this hindrance, there is good reason to wonder what kind of responsibility the Progress Party takes when they want to rage agriculture with their proposals in the State budget. Let me mention that the Progress Party will reduce the agricultural agreement by DKK 7.5 billion in 2010. It corresponds to a cut in the remuneration of labour and equity in agriculture by about 70 pst., or 129 000 per. annual work in 2010. It is impossible to redefine the aid in 2010, so that it does not hit young users and those who have invested in the industry in recent years. The cut-off proposals in support, combined with the other proposals, will centralise agriculture in Norway around the largest cities after a bankruptcy wave, while it is hardly possible to maintain any agriculture in the rest of the country. It does not help with conversion aid, as proposed by the Progress Party, if the basis for agriculture in Norway is gone. The Progress Party will also liquidate the law on turnover and market regulation in favour of a purely market-based trading system. Today’s market organisations help to provide stable, predictable prices for both farmers and consumers. Without regulation, prices will vary significantly, and neither the producer nor the consumer earns. Unstable prices, and hence income, will have an impact on agricultural risk assessments and investment intentions, which are natural. It is important to look at what each party stands for in practical policy, and the proposals of the Progress Party in the State Budget clearly show what the party stands for in agricultural policy. The centre party is not willing to frustrate agriculture, as proposed by the Progress Party in its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1703	In these days, the world is concerned with the global challenges. It is the climate summit in Copenhagen, and it was the peace price distribution last week. In that picture, we also have a situation where two hundred times the population of Norway is starving. Every night, children and adults get hungry in a number of two hundred times the total number of people living in our country. The central party's contribution to this is to ensure Norwegian food production, so that we buy food from the mouths that are starving outside the world as much as possible. The center party doesn't think we're doing it by offering everyone who wants to produce food, a pay drop of 129 000 kroner. In addition, those who have invested in initial investment and a future in agriculture will lose the most. Conversion aid for those leaving the industry does not increase food production, but the opposite. The UN has said that food can be grown everywhere, food must be grown in the future to feed the world’s population. This means that a policy is important to exploit all the land that has been cultivated by previous generations and all the land resources. Then we have to remember that another agricultural policy does not make the cultivated lichen surfaces, the small soils larger, the distance shorter or the pastures closer. If we are to take our share of our responsibility for global food production, we must have an agricultural policy that takes the whole country into use, including these types of land in the future. We must have an agricultural policy for the fertile agricultural areas, but also for the small areas with climate only for grass production. The centre party will have an agricultural policy with viable settlements throughout the country, with grazing sheep in the field and on mountain pastures, and not long-range imports from other parts of the globe in a world that is starving.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1714	When the oil adventure started early in the 1970s, the first offshore/supply boats built at Norwegian shipyards were built with American and Dutch design and technology. Norwegian shipbuilders quickly saw that the technology on a modern Norwegian fishing boat in many areas was far ahead of what one saw on these offshore/supply boats, and it did not take long before this technology was transferred to the offshore/shipping song with great success. Furthermore, it did not take long for fishermen to see the possibilities and take knowledge from the fishing industry and start their own careers in the offshore sector. Norway is currently at the top of the world in this field, and it is Norwegian design, Norwegian equipment and Norwegian competence all over the world. Modern offshore/supply boats consist of 80 pst. technology and 20 pst. steel. There are green ships that few, if anyone at all, do after us, we see today. I'm proud of this. The challenge now is how to take care of and further develop this technology and competence when the offshore/supply market is flattened. One possibility, as I see it, can be to use this technology that is now developed, and to facilitate, so that Norwegian shipyards and equipment suppliers can be responsible for the renewal of the fishing fleet and short sea shipping, not only in Norway, but worldwide. Think of the environmental benefit we would achieve if the fishing fleet and the short-sea fleet on a world-wide basis could be as green and as environmentally friendly as the newest part of the offshore service fleet is today. We have to take care of this possibility. I'm pretty sure we can do that, this will give us a big plus in our environmental account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1725	In 1984 agriculture in New Zealand was in a deep crisis. They quickly realized that they had to introduce major political reforms after the economic development of agriculture and the country had become critical. In agriculture, full deregulation was introduced. This has led to a considerable increase in agricultural efficiency. The economy of farmers in relation to the rest of the population is better in New Zealand than in Norway today. This shows that the government's policy is not working. Norway needs to renew itself and facilitate the farmer’s self-determination over his own soil and nutrition. Norway should do as in New Zealand, namely distinguish between business and district policies, and ensure that the farmer is given the freedom of nutrition through full ownership and the right to manage his own production. It is only the policy of the Progress Party that can stop the decline of agriculture by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1732	That is one thing that has our broad agreement on here today. There is a lot of disagreement about this, but I think it is one thing that we have very much in agreement about, and that is that Norway must be offensive to environmental technology. The point is that it is important that we manage to have a good process, where together we get a wide public debate on how to get from word to action in the field of environmental technologies. Now we in Soria Moria II have made a promise that we will have a review of the whole tool tool. SV has been very concerned that this review must be in close dialogue with both the industry itself and, to some extent, environmental movement, which in many ways knows the new market. One thing that I'm very busy with in that context is that the environmental technology industry doesn't just have to become an industry to solve environmental problems in Norway. It must be an industry to take the truly offensive international market. The environmental technology market today says that if they do not have at least 60 pst. by the market abroad, they are unable to lift a modern, efficient, productive industry. So my birthright is: now, let's really work together to find the good grips, so that we make it the industry that can take over when we're going to step down the oil industry, when we're not allowed to drill outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. So I just want to make a little comment on the fleet: I have to say that I am a little surprised that the fleet, which is well within the tax systems, does not see the difference between wealth taxes and net wages. In fact, they go straight on the bottom line, both parts, but the net pay is directly proportional to the number of Norwegian workers in the industry, and it's not the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1746	The series of tribute speeches by the representatives of the red-green parties is probably somewhat in contrast to the situation and reality of the societies exposed to international competition. That is why I think some of these representatives must have gleaned with their absence at home for quite some time. When, among others: The representative Stroem pointed out that there has never been any greater growth in Norway than in recent years, he could hardly have got what is everyday life in his own municipality of residence, with dismissals, leave of absences, etc. Stagnation has become everyday in many ways. I am not loading today's government for this picture of reality, but it is very well harmonised when the representative Lundtägen in his customary attack on the Right and agricultural policy talks about this great, great growth. Where do we have the big growth in Norway? Where does the population increase? Well, under the dynamic leadership of the Center Party, population growth has never been greater than it is today in this region. I think that all of these people who participate in today's tribute speeches, who represent District Norway, at least have to deal with the trouble of seeing what population development is like in this country. In my opinion, it would have been better to look at what is happening in Norway, what is happening in Building Norway, and whether the attitude should still be that we should manage rural development by law – with concession law, with housing obligations and other medicines that have proven to be ineffective at all. There is a cheap sale stamp on Building Norway that makes the number of flooring houses and operating buildings that are empty increase by enough thousands every year. Let those who want to bet in Bygde-Norway, be allowed, and let them be given the opportunity to do so before it is too late!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1757	Earlier today I went to the pulpit with the 'Delightful Is Earth' in my ears, from those who practiced outside here, and now I went after Ivar Kristiansen! Firstly, to the representative, Mr Träldal: I am glad that I belong to a party that sees the link between agriculture and fisheries policy and rural policy. Secondly, I would like to say that I support the concern about the cod stock along the Skagerrak coast regarding the post of the representative of Gullvåg. But I am absolutely sure that our excellent Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will continue to work on this important matter. The representative of Gullvåg was also involved in the use of the coast. Some 2 million people use the Skagerrak coast for recreation, and there are both professional fishermen and recreational fishermen fishing on the stock. I am pleased with the restrictions we have on tourist fishing, especially with regard to coastal cod populations. Foreigners who are tourist fishermen in the long coast of Norway have gradually evolved into an important basis for coastal employment and activity. Over time, however, we also rely on tourism fishing to take place within a sustainable framework. The Progress Party and the Right present a number of comments and proposals in the position of the Trade Committee. The Progress Party proposes to repeal the regulation on export quotas for fish and fishery products from sport fishing, while the Right proposes to increase the so-called tourist quota for fish from 15 to 25 kg. It is absolutely necessary, in my view, with a restriction of tourist fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1770	This debate has shown us some of the contrasts that exist in this Chamber, but at the same time the debate has been reasonably predictable. The right brings out its tax haven in response to any question and challenge in business. Some tax changes have been made. Some tax changes will certainly also be made, also in order to adapt to the challenges of Norwegian business. We have said that we should go through the tax system with regard to taxes on working capital, for example. But what's the difference between the Right Party and the Government Party is that the Right Party has so infinitely more money to give away in tax laws, without having to take them into the welfare concept or into the welfare distribution of production. That's the big difference, but it's quite – let's say – common in that debate. Then there's something new about the Advance Party, which now chooses to use New Zealand as a gloss picture or Soria Moria in terms of agriculture. That's really very surprising, because New Zealand and Norway are really like the difference in black and white. It is not possible to compare agriculture in Norway and in New Zealand; it is too bad. But that's the way the Progress Party will have society: the regulated, the deregulated, the society. They have also said on this speaker and write it in their position that this deregulation will actually have them in the fishing industry as well. It's the ideology of the Progress Party, so that's not really supposed to surprise you about that. Then there has been a question of the maritime sector and when to take action. I think the Council of State has responded brilliantly to that. The right is exactly in the same phase now that they were a year ago, together with the Progress Party, when one – let's say – needs action and really didn't think the Government would do anything. I think it makes sense to wait for the situation now. The fleet is to a great extent involved. He says RNB will be a reasonable period of thought, and I agree with that. Then the impatience must not be too great. So to the last, about power-processing industry and the industrial power regime. I record that someone believes that nothing has been done about it, and it gets to stand its test. However, a number of measures have been taken. Guarantee schemes are one of the instruments. Symbolic support is another tool. The means of conversion and the means of disbursement taken in connection with the conversion of the fall-back scheme are other possibilities. The fact that Enova is now making a greater contribution to energy efficiency improvement in power-generating industries is also an adjustment. I'm not saying that it solves all the problems, but there's a significant difference between what's now available from measures, and what I've ever seen the opposition come forward with proposals in the power-processing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1783	The representative, Andersen Eide, asked in a reply whether agriculture could use municipal food funds. I was then a little unclear about the facts of the matter and have therefore checked the matter afterwards. It is such that the county councils are responsible for the allocation of funds from Chapter 551 item 60 to municipal industrial funds. It is also the county councils which, in letters of allocation to municipalities, are required to provide regional guidance on the use of funds. There are no specific rules for the use of municipal food funds from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs other than the legislation applicable to all development funds. The funds shall pursue objectives which are in line with the regional and district policy objectives. There are, of course, restrictions on the aid granted to individual enterprises in order to ensure that the commercial aid is in line with competition law. The state legislation is industry-neutral, but, of course, according to its own development strategies, local authorities and municipalities may have given particular attention to specific industries. So the answer to the question is that it is the individual county that decides whether agriculture can use municipal food funds. It is not the case that agriculture is unequivocally excluded by State legislation. Then I would like to comment on the Treldal's three-minute post. He said that it is only the policy of the Progress Party that can stop the downturn of agriculture by the Government. The Progress Party has proposed to promote the freedom of nutrition of the farmer, has proposed freedom of establishment in all productions, freest competition, and has proposed to abolish most of the state regulations of the industry, inter alia. justified on the fact that the industry has undergone major upheavals in the last 20 years, with halving the number of production units. They promote a number of proposals which, in my view, appear to be a purely self-contradictory approach, including: to cut the agricultural agreement by DKK 7,5 billion, to abolish the law on turnover and market regulation, to liquidate livestock concession legislation, to promote the free movement of milk quotas, to remove quota ceilings, to limit distance, to limit numbers and to establish freely all productions. The point is that agriculture is a long-term industry entirely dependent on stable framework conditions. Agriculture is quite different from many other industries by the fact that once invested in a production line, it is not possible to change production or priorities. The proposals of the Progress Party could not possibly be serious, if they have any objective of maintaining agriculture in Norway. The cut-off proposals in support, combined with the other proposals, will centralise agriculture in Norway around the largest cities after a bankruptcy wave, while it is hardly possible to maintain any agriculture in the rest of the country. Then it runs into my mind – in conclusion – a verse by Jon Leirfall in connection with the 1972 EC fight, I have written a little about it: Imagining should be "Torgeir" done before he speaks, Negotiating directives will increase doubt, safely I trust contemplative slaves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1809	I think you might be able to make a confession from the Progress Party: if you wanted to implement what you thought about agricultural policy in the Progress Party, District Norway and rural agriculture would be devastated. It's actually not possible to handle it that way. Both the farmers' organisations and all the others with whom I was with at some debate meetings in the election campaign also when it came to the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, thought it actually meant it. If you want to prioritize other things, you might as well say, you're done with that discussion. The second thing I want to say is to my – I kept saying – colleague from Northern Ireland, Ivar Kristiansen, in terms of industry. Well, I'm home, I'm often at home and have good contact with the industry, so he shouldn't be worried that you're not up to date on what's going on. The problem with the process industry and other industries is that there is no receiver at the other end. Then you can use all of the packages that are. However, we have close and good dialogue with the industry, which sees that we take care of the workers with the framework that lies behind them. I think it's important to bring it with me. Our toolbox is not empty, it's filled up. And then everyone knows that it's minimal what you can possibly go in with, but you can go in with support for both the course and other things, training and the whole package that everyone knows about. Just on Friday evening – or I used Friday afternoon, to be very precise – I was in contact with the most trusted people in the Alcoa Lake to get updated on the situation there as well. It is clear that we have a close dialogue with the trade union movement and management of these companies. We have also been presented with the challenges of Mo Industripark in the supply industry. So I think I have at least the right thing to do with myself, given that there have been some rounds to look at the opportunities that lie in the industry, not only in Mo in Rana, but also in the Mo Sea and elsewhere, so that we can take care of it as well as we can. Our toolbox isn't empty, it's filled in, and we're going to solve it gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1818	We're all excited about whether that toolbox is going to contain anything other than words, but we'll see that. When I took the floor, it was because when I hear the head of the nutrition committee, Aasland, talking about taxes, I get pretty scared. He must have read the Right Program very badly if he thinks it's just tax we're talking about. However, tax is definitely an important part of creating targeted and strong growth in Norway. If he reads the state budget – his own government budget – it says that there are a lot of dynamic effects in the tax system that the models do not take into account. The SSB has been subjected to the tax reliefs granted in the last government period, and they quickly got back into the state treasury, most of it. It must be part of the policy’s objective — to have a targeted policy, to make cake a little bigger for the next generation. It's actually not just to distribute it, you also have to think a little bit about how to enlarge the cake. Then I also think there have been some remarkable contributions to agriculture. I do not hear one red-green representative addressing the Norwegian agricultural challenge. I've heard some talk about New Zealand, and I've heard Lundtigen talk about Denmark, and I now heard the Minister of Agriculture have such a defensive and so pessimistic expression of Norwegian agriculture that you should really think you could just put everything down right away. I wish you had some offensiveness in your mind. When Lundtigen talks about Denmark: I don't know about Danish agriculture, but I know that Denmark has quite an active agriculture, they have an export-oriented agriculture, and they have a very large food industry based on agriculture, and they don't have oil money to rely on. At least it had to be realized that they might be doing something right down there, before you bring it into Norwegian debate. Moreover, I think the most interesting thing is to discuss Norwegian agriculture based on Norwegian premises and Norwegian assumptions, and then there is no doubt that we have some challenges to address. The statistics are accommodating. When it comes to New Zealand, I don't have much experience with New Zealand agriculture either, but I do and hunt a little. I hunted for a week with a new Zealander, who was driving agriculture. I asked what happened in New Zealand when they asked about agricultural policy, and then he answered, after thinking a little about, "all the wannabe farmers disappeared." That's the first thing that happened. Perhaps some of what the Minister of Agriculture also needs is to clean up some of the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1833	The representative Irene Lange Nordahl has spoken twice before, and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1836	The reason why I take the floor now until the end, is that the claims by the representative Ivar Kristiansen were included in his statement. It was about population development. It is important to be correct when making such statements. I can mention an example from my own home country, Troms. In 2005, under the Bondevik government in which the Right was involved, there were only five municipalities with population growth. In 2009, 12 out of 25 municipalities have population growth, after a period of red-green government. This is a change of pace. We're not in the measure, but this indicates the direction this government wants. The last point on my part in this debate concerns the power agreements, which were mentioned. This government has something to do with it. I also want to remind Right that they gave up having a differentiated employer's fee reintroduced. That's what this government has put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1845	The representative, Ingrid Heggø, has spoken twice in the matter and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1848	I found with pleasure that the representative of Gundersen also thought that the collapse of agriculture by 7.5 billion kroner was the largest team, and would also like to add that the representative of the Progress Party from Sogn and Fjordane also went into the election campaign and said that when it comes to health and agriculture, we cannot use our policy, that is, the policy of the Progress Party, in the county of I come from. The argument from several from the Progress Party that reducing the transfers by 129 000 kr per. Annual works will give more farmers, better recruitment and more freedom I just can't understand. Then we should introduce wage cuts all over the line. The Committee’s comments from the opposition on industrial power and de minimis aid indicate in full that one mixes the 40 million. kr via Innovation Norway with the guarantee scheme of 20 billion kroner. It's just that you're not able to lift a finger yourself to do something for the power-consuming industry, while we red-green have supplied what the industry itself asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1857	The role model of the Advance Party is New Zealand. The ratio is such that the value of skimmed milk powder produced in New Zealand is zero. Any price higher than that is State aid. Everyone understands that this is an extreme example. It's a little bit interesting, yeah, it's useless to discuss New Zealand in Norway. The right-hand model is Denmark. What distinguishes Denmark? Well, in previous discussions, there was groundwater pollution. Now there is a level of debt so high that the creditors get into the ownership of the agricultural units. Just talking to a general tractor seller in Norway, he can tell the representative Gundersen how it is. It's not a model. In Norway, we have had people who believe in joint farms, transition from family farming to co-farming. What does a joint venture require? Well, it requires full capital coverage on all capital employed, full coverage of labour – all labour input into the enterprise – because you enter an enterprise, as opposed to what was previously a family farm. If this room had been interested in and entered into the accounts of the joint ventures, one would see that the economy of large Norwegian agriculture at large – its size – would not be good enough to cover the entire capital and to pay a wage for the work that has been done. That is why the co-operation is in crisis. What is needed is a policy based on what is the Norwegian tradition: family farming. Family farming has a robustness in relation to both the American and Soviet systems that are completely superior. So you also get into an earth's mound, you get into a love for the earth and manage it in such a way that it preserves its fertility, and it can evolve as a healthy production factor. It is also the answer to the climate challenges, namely better use of land and larger areas. Here's the big challenge, the profitability of using the land. Then the profitability of grass production must rise. If you don't get it, the huge grasslands we have in the fields or outland in Norway won't be profitable to use. That's what's happening today. That's why we're going to get a bunch of grant adjustments, as many call for jokes, which is a completely wrong expression. The reason for these adjustments is that the prices of the milk and meat do not keep pace with other cost developments. We get completely abnormal business-economy adjustments. It's interesting to go into this debate. It must be based on family agriculture, landslides and respect for the fertility of the soil. The examples are neither in the United States nor in New Zealand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1871	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1874	I must have trotted on a sore toe earlier today in the line of the industrial power regime. I have nothing against the guarantee scheme. That's what we're for. I tried to ask if it was cheaper power, as the red-green election vow went on. I have not received an answer to that so far. I think the red-greens win the competition for what has been the longest in a drawer in this respect. So to Holmelid, who believes that I do not know the difference between property taxes and net wages. In the net pay scheme, those who own the ships, shipowners, will have a greater profit when they have a subsidised wage. They're investing that profit in new ships. That is what everyone wants. What they also invest in new ships are past profits, also called wealth. When the tax there increases, you become less able to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1883	Denmark is, of course, the right example in very many areas – there is no doubt about it. I haven't heard so many people who have talked so much about just Danish agriculture, because no one in the Right has arranged for us to copy Danish agriculture. You can't lay the built flat like that overnight, I confess. However, Denmark has proved that agriculture can be a useful contributor to keeping employment, economics, growth and development going. And that Danish agriculture, in line with all international agriculture, also has problems at present, is not surprising. They have not, like other speakers, an oil smeared economy that can soothe this pill, as we have in Norway, which often comes from fields you have voted against, but you are not ashamed to boast about how much priority you have given to using this income. Nor is it possible to hide the fact that asylum and refugee policies have also contributed to some municipalities in the district of Norway being able to halt the decline in population development. But the number's speech, no matter how you choose to explain or explain these, is very, very clear. The price pressure on the housing market, as we see in the most central parts of Norway, is very visible at these times. And I repeat: with the leadership of the Central Party in the Ministry of Local Affairs, this has been allowed to develop – surprisingly for some, but not for all. And then you're going to be able to say that the industrial power regime is in place. I have not heard one representative from the Norwegian industry who has discovered this, and then it should be taken care of to travel around to industrial communities and see if this has come into place, in line with the 2005 election promise that Norwegian industry would be offered cheaper power. It has not yet been achieved to date. On the contrary, the situation has been made worse for Norwegian industry. It takes away the power that the industry itself had the right to dispose of, through the abandonment of the repatriation scheme, which has been successful for hundreds of years. De minimis support, guarantees: Orkla, Hydro, Norwegian Forest and Elkem do not require guarantees from the Norwegian Government. It is the availability of power, it is the availability of energy, which makes it possible for them to have a legal image and to be competitive. Let me also say to the representative Tor-Arne Stroem: does he really think that ensuring that wefsna, which could have added 1.5–2 TWh new renewable energy to Norwegian industry and to general households, is not being expanded, is any valuable contribution to strengthening Norwegian industry? Right, believe in that stick, stick the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1894	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1897	I took the floor because the representative Gundersen said I could not have read the Right Program. I did not refer to the Right Programme either. I referred to the Right used as arguments and answers to the challenges through this debate. Just to make it clear, our governance objective in terms of the level of taxation is at 2004 levels. We don't have that much money and think it is wrong to prioritize tax relief during the time we are in. We don't believe that the cake gets bigger, but there's someone who might get bigger pieces of cake, while others don't get. So to the last, about cheaper power to the industry. That's never been said. It has been said long-term and reasonable conditions for power to the industry. That's what's been the promise and the Soria Moria statements. I think it's a good basis for getting it into the way it is now. And there is no doubt that the uncertainty that the guarantee scheme can remove is of great importance to Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1906	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1909	After all, the representative Kristiansen brought it up with Denmark, but it must be in the Center Party's programme that it says that we have Denmark as a model. Lundtigen talked about joint ventures. Making it just a matter of economies of scale seems strange to me. All research suggests that Norwegian family use is a socially isolating job, and most of those who are looking to engage in joint ventures are looking for orderly working conditions, a social environment and perhaps a competence-developing environment to work in. It's the main driving forces behind co-operation, and the effects are pretty good. Working against it seems to me to have the future behind me, to say it like that. So there was a little bit to this with the cake. If you read the government's own government budget, it's obvious that cakes get bigger through targeted and accurate tax reliefs. It's part of the Right solution, but it's a lot more the solution that also contains.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1918	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1921	Ivar Kristiansen said what it was: The right example is Denmark – that is something that everyone knows. One should not copy Denmark, because Denmark is flat — it is sea level, and Norway is hauget. Danish policy makes sense, Denmark keeps employment up, growth up, the economy up – yes, that’s right – and they have large exports. But the problem for the Danish farmer is an agriculture in crisis that does not function economically. And what's happening now is that the Danish farmer has to give up part of the ownership of land, that's the last thing he has left after giving up everything else. We are facing a situation where we have to build on our basis, namely, to build agriculture on plough cold, not on ship's keel. That's what heads of state said in Rome at the FAO Summit, one after the other: we have to exploit the possibilities of photosynthesis all over the world, and then we have to build a policy that is adapted to our circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1928	The representative Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1931	The fleet is not changing. I just want to see that the money that's on the bottom line is spent the same way. But the point of the net pay scheme is that it gives an incentive to add Norwegian seafarers, which other tax haven't. So I want to say a little bit about the industrial power regime. It should not be forgotten that one has an international EEA law to adhere to. I can only mention, for those who do not know the industry well, that in Italy, the European Commission stopped two contracts that were too favourable, which meant that two melting plants had to be shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1939	The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1942	To end the sequence of the power regime: I expect the representative Ivar Kristiansen to know that when it comes to cheap power for the industry, that time is over. The Authority’s contracts began to expire in 2005 and continue until 2011. That means we've been dealing with long-term framework conditions. As far as I know, industry, management and employees are satisfied as far as we have come today. We have a good starting point. Had Ivar Kristiansen and the Bondevik II government continued, we would have had nothing. That's what's the difference. When it comes to Wefsna, at least a good deal knows about my attitude to it. The representative Ivar Kristiansen had the same situation with the Left in government!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1949	I record that the position occasionally takes on a little offended mine when the opposition allows itself to make other suggestions. Since it is Christmas, and then you have to be kind, I have to say in the name of the colleague support that this can quickly be four years in active depression. Because we have our own opinions on how things should be and will probably continue to make suggestions. Taxation and business taxation are in a way about dampening the appetite or giving people the desire to keep on. It was an old fish buyer from home who said after he had been a business owner for a few years, that we probably just have to realize that not everyone was born with a job. He had had a couple of young boys down on the dock that he didn't get to trim. In fact, we have to realize that not all businessmen want to do this every day. But we all agree that they are making an important effort. They make an important effort — they create new jobs every day. It has been said from this pulpit a shock of times. Then we have to create a tax regime that makes these guys want to work. Once again, the more you have left in the company after the year has rolled, and you have worked and worn out, the more you want to develop the company – create more jobs, do new things. The image that has been tried by Norwegian business leaders, such as well-born men with cigars, black dress and black Volvo XE90, is not correct. Norwegian business leaders and Norwegian business people are people who actively do a good job every day to drive Norway further. They hire young people, they hire older people, they care for communities, and they become more important and important to us getting this country where we want it. I have to be allowed to quote Lundtigen – it is a pity that he has gone – because he spoke of ‘love to manage’ the farm. What business leaders do is they use their love to manage the business they've been given. There the good and safe jobs are created.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1960	Today began with talking about their own alternative budgets, and the position came with its tribute to the government budget. Yes, it was a fruitful debate. It was interesting to hear why they had done the exact ones and the grips to meet the challenges that are coming in the future. So the debate turned around completely. Finally, the debate has been more marked by the fact that, for example: central parties – whether from Sogn and Fjordane or elsewhere – have entered and interpreted the programs of others. It rarely becomes fertile. Yes, we have even heard the tribute of the representative, Lundtigen, of Russian agriculture. I'm a little unsure whether that's the impression that some of us have of the Russian way of farming. I'm going to use the little speaking time that's left to sum up some of the challenges I see, and I hope we can do something with it. In the future, the business life of Norway will be based on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is the economy that will carry mainly the nation of Norway forward. That is where the great diversity is, and that is where we really need to provide a good framework. I do not doubt that, in the case of large and heavy enterprises, there will always be a great deal of support, there will be packages, you will make sure to help, but we must not forget the small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have these large, heavy speakers in each enterprise. That's why we have to talk about that industry. I see dark clouds for the shipping industry, both on the supplier side and on the yard side. The problem is that those who notice this first are the small businesses that are going to deliver to the industry. They're the ones who get to notice it first. It's not the shipyards. The yards are coming in the next round. But the little business gets dizzy right away. We have great challenges. I respect the fact that the government parties celebrate their own – it should just be lacking. Something else would have really worried me. But it's better to let the individual parties interpret their own programs than to think that you know so much better yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1975	The Labour Party's representative Else-May Botten has made quite some accusations, in the view of the Right, about shipping policy. The right is a viable shipping industry, which is not just about the net pay scheme, but it is a very important part of it. Therefore, the Right is positive to the net pay scheme. In order to provide good maritime nutrition — throughout the West, throughout the South, throughout Norway — it is therefore the case that most shipping companies in Norway today, whether large giants or smaller, will benefit from the removal from 1 January of the inheritance fee for most family-owned shipping companies, as proposed by the Right. In addition, what is an even greater problem for the shipping companies, and therefore also indirectly for the seafarers, is the large wealth tax that the Government forces the shipping companies to pay. With the Right's alternative property tax, the shipping companies would be better off. Several shipping companies would have returned to Norway, and thus had a better basis for hiring more Norwegians on Norwegian ships. The government has intervened so that various representatives of the industry have sued for what was called an ambush attack, a night attack, of 14 billion kroner. The representative of the Workers' Party claims that they are a shipping party, but it is clear that taking 14 billion kroner in one night's time is quite rough, and that is why we have also been sued. So the working party cuts approx. 3.5 pst. in the net pay scheme for this year. The fact that you don't bring it in, it's a bigger challenge, which I hope the representative Else-May Botten will be taking with you in one year's time in this room. The government has – the Labour Party does not mention it on this pulpit today – asked Econ Pöyry to investigate and evaluate the net pay system. And we all know that when the Workers' Party asks to develop an evaluation of the net pay scheme, it's not to increase it; it's probably to create a professional basis for next time to reduce it. I therefore think that the representative Botten should have a completely different approach to this. Overall right-wing policy is significantly better for shipping, significantly better for seafarers. In addition, if you look at the Right Alternative State Budget in this area, you will see that we come up with a completely different model of depreciation rates – which means something to our shipyards, which means something to our shipping companies. So we react very strongly to the Botten’s ‘beautiful’ vocabulary to put the Right in a bad light in this case, because we actually have the best policy – in relation to the Workers’ Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e1990	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Six, seven, eight. [[See pages 1249, 1264 and 1265]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2006	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2015	The Economic and Social Committee has examined document 8:3 S of the representatives Trine Skei Grande and Abid Q. Raja on the reorganisation and liberation of Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway was, as someone will remember, established by the Bondevik II government in 2004. It has had a device on its actions that has been very focused on the primary industries, and little on innovation. That means you've maintained structure instead of creating new ones. The proposal from the Left is in three parts. Innovation Norway should be given a freer role in terms of policy. It is desirable that Innovation Norway should be a premiscuous supplier in terms of the measures to be taken, that it should be seen a little longer, that it should not be just about the daily business. Then you want it to be divided into two – into an innovation part, also called innovation in Norwegian, and into a district part. There has been a great deal of agreement in the Committee on this matter. As rapporteur, I believe that the Committee agrees on the state of play. The Committee refers – I allow myself to call it – to the considerable criticism that has emerged from the National Audit Office on the low level of innovation, on coordination and governance, and that would be much better. The Committee also believes that it is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry to ensure that a change is made, as the Ministry itself says in its reply to the Committee. The Committee is a little divided into the comments. The position may account for its comments. On the right, many of the views contained in the Left’s proposal — perhaps not all, but quite a few of them — and believe that these too should be included in the evaluation currently being carried out by the Ministry. There are no divergent proposals in this case. I believe that as the rapporteur-in-Office, that is a strength. Innovation Norway is an important instrument, regardless of which angle you consider it. That is also the opinion of the proposers. There is nothing else at all. That is one of the reasons why the rapporteur - who, as I said earlier, sympathises strongly with the proposals from the Left - has not wanted to repeat them as proposals, precisely because they are too good to be downrooted in the Chamber. The fact that a unanimous committee wishes to attach the matter to the Minutes, and the observations are largely consistent, I consider that the matter should be dealt with further by the Ministry of Industry. I look forward to this comprehensive evaluation being carried out as quickly as possible. But we haven't said that it's going to be faster than the department itself says. We understand that time is needed. During the fall of 2010 we will be meeting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2032	The proposal from the Left is largely addressed because an evaluation of Innovation Norway has already been carried out. In the preparation of the evaluation mission, both the Riksrevision’s findings and the Committee’s comments were taken into account. One of the main objectives of the evaluation is to assess and assess how Innovation Norway meets the objectives and the leadership of the company. This means that, among other things. shall be assessed on the composition and services of the company, on the availability of users and on the socio-economic impact of the company's activities. In addition, the organisation of the company, including the impact of the merger of the former organisations and the current organisation of the company, must be assessed. The evaluation mandate also includes an analysis of future challenges for the development of the company. An evaluation of SIVA has also been started. Overall, these evaluations will provide a good basis for an assessment of future tasks and the organisation of the public tools. The evaluations will help to increase the insight into the activities and form the basis for a discussion on any changes in the objectives, priorities and organisation of the companies. We red-green are busy having a tool tool that works, we have tools in the toolbox, and we use these tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2045	Inner. 97 S for 2009–2010 is an important issue, but the Progress Party had seen that it could benefit from being postponed until 2010 in order to evaluate Innovation Norway. We didn't get a majority for this, unfortunately. Innovation Norway has also been up for discussion several times in the past, including in recent years. Int. S. No 152 for 2008-2009. Criticism was raised and significant weaknesses were identified, including: a lower degree of innovation for the company than the objectives set. Integration between foreign and Norwegian operations was also too weak. The Progress Party shares in many areas the views expressed by the draft representative and the comments made earlier. In this way, all previous and current observations must be included in the notified evaluation and evaluation of Innovation Norway. These include: SIVA is one of several themes that needs to be highlighted. SIVA has an important role to play in its innovation programme. The Party considers it important to ensure risk capital for start-up and early growth enterprises. The high level of taxation means that available risk capital is limited in Norway and therefore it is important to contribute to public private cooperation through fund structures and innovation schemes in order to improve access to risk capital. Innovation Norway’s instruments today are characterised by too many policy specificities and constraints that make them not available. The Progress Party is opposed to a two-way division of Innovation Norway, where one part is only to take district into account. Over the years, a lot of money or guarantees have been given to many different projects. Some have been successful, while many others have been less successful. Support, guarantee, etc., should apply to all regardless of gender, project or where you live in the country. Workplaces – small and large, in any case, are important for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2058	In a case so cohesive, it may not have been necessary to take the word and withdraw the day, but I think it is a point to point out that Innovation Norway – and there seems to be broad agreement in this Chamber – is perhaps, as the minister said earlier today, the most important instrument we have available to pursue an active industrial policy in Norway. Then, as we also see from the plural and minority comments, there is broad consensus that there is reason to go in and see more closely how that organization works. And then there are slightly different premises for what that evaluation should hold. But apart from that, there is a broad consensus about, and a great interest in, that we get the most operational and efficient Innovation Norway. I'm glad that there's so much agreement about it, and that the recording that came from the Left doesn't get accepted, but it has the intention that we get to see how important Innovation Norway is. We are pleased that the Left has come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2065	I would first like to thank the Left for promoting a proposal for a representative on an important issue for Norwegian value creation. The role of innovation in Norway as an industrial development actor, as previously mentioned here in the Chamber, was reviewed by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the EEA in the previous period. This approach is based on the Riksrevision study in which criticism was raised, among other things. towards a lower level of innovation for the company than the objectives set. This is a central element of the draft representative from the Left. The Control and Constitutional Committee also pointed out that the integration between foreign activities and Norwegian activities is too weak, and the Committee considered that questions could be asked about whether more risk-sensitive projects should not be supported. At the time, a unanimous committee pointed out that Innovation Norway only serves as a bank to a large extent and that outlying activities related to consultancy, transfer of competences and networking for businesses and entrepreneurs are too weak. The Committee concluded that there were significant weaknesses in the coordination of professional governance in Innovation Norway and stressed that this had to be improved in order to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget as a precedent for setting up the company. It was also agreed that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to improve the areas addressed by the Riksrevision criticism. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs welcomed the announcement by the Ministry at that time in winter 2009 that they would start work on evaluating the activities of Innovation Norway. This will be completed in the autumn of 2010. The Christian People's Party shares many of the views expressed in the proposal for a representative from the Left. We believe that all the proposals contained in the Left's proposal for a representative must be included in the informed overall assessment of Innovation Norway. In line with the representative of the Progress Party, we agree that, since criticism of the SIVA innovation programme has also been raised, it must also be reviewed. We believe that it would be natural for this to be done together with the evaluation of Innovation Norway presented in spring 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2076	One of the declared goals of the Left for the next four years is to develop Norway into a liberal knowledge society. The knowledge society requires a transition to a new business and employment in Norway. For the Left, it is an independent goal that more start their own businesses, and that more people take power over their own working day. Therefore, the Left will better facilitate those who want to create a job for themselves and others. If we're going to get to this, there's, of course, a set of ratios that need to be put in place. The tax system needs to be simpler and more targeted. The regulatory and reporting burden must be reduced and simplified. Social rights need to be improved and, above all, public sector instruments need to be better and more targeted. The objective of increasing innovation and more new enterprises must be more important than structural conservatism and conservation. It is against this background that the Left has put forward proposals to reorganise and release Innovation Norway. The left is committed to maximising innovation from the public funds to go for just such purposes. Studies show that only half of the projects supported by Innovation Norway are innovative. Many of these still have a very small degree of innovation, as it often has little to do with a project being registered as an innovator. It is thus a limited part of Innovation Norway’s support that actually goes to innovation, despite the fact that it is central to achieving the company’s objectives of targeted business and socio-economic profitable business development. It is therefore essential, in the view of the Left, that Innovation Norway be given a clearer mandate to step up its efforts for increased innovation, regardless of its location. It cannot be that we are creating a complex regulatory framework that makes it impossible for sensible, forward-looking innovation to be supported, for example. is located in Nydalen here in Oslo. Therefore, the Left proposes to split Innovation Norway into two, so that we can get a much more focused and dedicated part that concentrates exclusively on stimulating increased innovation and not a number of others in particular on price considerations. In addition, in my view and in my view, there is no doubt that, especially in the last four years, developments have been moving towards making Innovation Norway a more and more political tool for the current government. This is reflected both in the increasingly comprehensive and detailed letters of allocation received by Innovation Norway from the sources of funding in different departments, and in the fact that the county authorities have more political influence over Innovation Norway and in a number of individual cases. Unfortunately, innovation in Norway contributes more to maintaining existing industrial structures than to stimulating conversion into Norwegian business. Regional policy considerations take precedence over the promotion of innovation. This too is based on a politically wild governance and policy. On the other hand, a greater degree of exemption from Innovation Norway can also lead to a stronger innovation effort, a little independent of the discretion of political authorities. With regard to the role of innovation in Norway, it is important that the company itself plays a more proactive role in profiling innovation as a central objective for the management of the instruments. In general, Innovation Norway should be given much more of an ombudsman role towards entrepreneurs and enterprises in accordance with the model of the EU SME Envoy and the main principles of the Swedish Growth Agency, based on the old NUTSK, where NUTSK was and the Swedish Growth Agency should be an important precursor to Swedish authorities in order to make everyday life simpler and better for Swedish enterprises. It is good in itself that several evaluations are now being carried out of the work of Innovation Norway. The important thing, however, is that these evaluations actually end up with changes that reflect what I feel are widely agreed on, for example. the weakness of the outlying activities relating to the advice, transfer of competences and networking of enterprises and establishment. In the light of the Committee's position and in dialogue with the rapporteur, the Left has chosen not to maintain the proposals contained in our proposal for a representative. However, we ask the Council of State to confirm that all the proposals made by the representative proposal 3 S for 2009-2010 from the Left will be included in the announced overall assessment of Innovation Norway, in line with the comment from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2095	There is no reason to extend this debate substantially here, as we come back to this in its full scope once we have reviewed the evaluation that is under way. It will cover the period from the establishment of Innovation Norway in 2004, until now. In the preparation of the evaluation mission, the findings of the National Audit Office and the Committee's comments from the debate held in March of this year were incorporated. One of the main objectives of the evaluation is to assess whether and how Innovation Norway meets the objectives and leadership set for the company. In particular, an assessment of the composition of the company's services, the availability to users and the socio-economic impact of the company's activities shall be provided. In addition, the organisation of the company itself must be assessed, including both the effect of the merger of the four former organisations and the current organisation of the company. Innovation Norway’s cooperation with other key actors shall also be widely discussed. Finally, the evaluation mandate also includes an analysis of future challenges for the development of the company. The evaluation is scheduled to be completed in the autumn of 2010. It shows that we are concerned with the long-term prospects of the company. But let me say that we have also launched an evaluation of SIVA, which will be available in the spring of 2010. Overall, this will provide a good basis for the whole of the public sector and how future tasks and organisation will be addressed. With this statement, I think most of the views and input from the various parties now in this debate are covered. In addition, it can be said that this evaluation will certainly be the subject of wide public debate, possibly different consultations, etc., before we present an appropriate case to the Stortinget with the content of the evaluation and the various measures we propose afterwards. We'll have a good and ample opportunity to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2106	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1267]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2122	Document 1 for 2009–2010 is the Riksaudition’s annual report to the Stortingen for the financial year 2008. The document itself gives a solid impression of the Riksrevision's work and their working methods, and the document provides the Stortinget with a good basis for following up on the control of the use of the funds provided by the Stortinget. I would also like to point out that the Riksrevision has this time dissociated company control. It seems to work well and gives a natural distinction between ordinary accounting control in the administration and company control. The National Audit Office has issued 229 final audit letters, 22 of which have been issued with comments. Two additions to Document No have also been drawn up. 1 – one in respect of the revision of the State pension fund and one in respect of the State of Labour and Welfare. These will be dealt with separately at a later stage and will be mentioned to a lesser extent in this debate. However, I allow myself briefly to point out that the disclosures the Riksrevision has reported on the Employment and Welfare Act are very serious and will be subject to a separate audit hearing in the new year. A number of follow-up questions have been sent to most departments during the Committee's examination of Document 1. The quality of responses is somewhat varied and some of them are likely to be the subject of further discussions in different contexts. It is symptomatic, however, that the answers come quite late to the Storting. It is essential for the Grand Duchy’s control of the executive that the answers to the questions raised by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy should be speedy, so that progress and proper treatment in the Grand Duchy are not jeopardised. I assume that the state councils who feel taken by this criticism follow this up. Document 1 is one of the main documents underpinning Stortingen's control of the administration, and it is thus a very important document The Stortinget deals with this evening. Norway has been used over time to have a very powerful population, which has quite often instructed various minority governments — often against the will of minority governments — also in areas that have traditionally been considered to be prerogatives. Today's rise has a significantly weaker position in relation to the Government, because the Government is out of the ranks of parties that collectively have a majority in the Stortinget. Formally, the power position of the Storting stands – it probably doesn't. Therefore, it is important that all parties, irrespective of their political colour and their relationship to the executive, work diligently and seriously with the preservation of what is left of the real power of the Storting, often triggered by the control of the Storting with the Government and the administration. In my opinion, the examination of Document 1 of the Control and Constitutional Committee shows exactly the sincerity of all parties in their desire to ensure the best possible control of the Grand Duchy's task. The main impression of the document is that in Norway we have relatively good governance, with relatively good control and a rather close follow-up to the Storting decision. However, it would be natural, during the treatment of such cases, that it is the errors and deficiencies that are actually identified, which are also given the greatest attention. That is why, on the one hand, there is strong criticism of parts of the management in the Committee's position and, on the other, criticism is largely unanimous. I am pleased that the Enlarged Committee on Control and Constitution thus proves well worthy of its independent control task on behalf of the Storting. There are some themes left in many departments. There are challenges in meeting the requirements of the Acquisition Regulation, there are relatively often shortcomings in internal control, and there are gaps in ICT systems. It is consistently important that all government councils take their responsibilities seriously to follow up these challenges, and I also assume that the Riksrevision will follow this closely. The rapporteurs for the various departments are distributed among the members of the Committee. In the following, I would like to deal in particular with the three areas for which I have the responsibility of the rapporteur-general in this context. This concerns the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. There are no particular comments from either the National Audit Office or the Committee on Control and Constitution of the Grand Duchy in respect of the Prime Minister’s office. Of the 22 final audit letters with comments from the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Knowledge has received five. The national audit has over time pointed to weaknesses in the accounting quality of the underlying activities of the Ministry of Knowledge. In 2008, the Education Directorate, the Norwegian Veterinary College, the Bergen Academy of Fine Arts, the Lillehammer College and the Stord/Haugesund High School did not pass the Riksrevisionen test. Most remarkable is the fact that the Education Directorate, which itself has the task of ensuring that others comply with legislation, does not exist in important areas such as financial management, internal control and follow-up of Norwegian schools abroad. In particular, the failure of financial management and internal control is serious, in view of the directorate’s need for credibility in the assessment of resource use, for example in private schools entitled to state subsidies. It is a challenge that the body responsible for monitoring compliance by private schools, which has also deprived schools of the right to operate with state subsidies, among others. on the basis of weak internal control and financial management, does not itself better deal with this. It is a serious challenge for the Ministry of Knowledge. A Joint Committee underlines the responsibility of the Ministry for the management of targets and results and internal control procedures in the case of underlying activities which detect weaknesses as early as possible during the financial year, in order to ensure the possibility of correcting the course of action. I will also briefly mention a special situation at the University of Bergen and its relationship to a foundation for the purpose of supporting the research at UiB. This is a case which is not suitable for further prosecution in the context of the examination of document 1, but the case itself may look serious, and the Committee has therefore warned that it will consider following this matter further separately. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has received 10 final audit letters from the National Audit Office, none of which have commented. However, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has raised the issue of the length of time for proceedings in the Patent Board. According to the National Councils, it was 4.2 years for cases decided in 2008. Cases for the Patent Board are largely linked to the possibility for Norwegian entrepreneurs and inventors to protect their interests against exploitation. For this reason, it is important that the duration of the proceedings does not, in itself, impede the development of industry in Norway. The Committee therefore considers that the time limit for handling cases completed in 2008 is excessive and has asked the Council of State to step up its efforts to reduce them. In addition, there are a few areas that I think deserve special mention from the pulpit. One relates to an ongoing conflict between the Ministry of the Environment and the National Audit Office, which in short is that the Ministry of the Environment rejects the Riksrevision's transparency in documents The Riksrevision believes is important for their audit work. The Committee has addressed the matter in a letter to the Council of State Erik Solheim, and the Council of State's response is so remarkable that I believe that something should be said about it. The Committee's letter states that the Committee asks the Council of State to state the reasons for which it considers that the Ministry may refuse the Court of Auditors' transparency. According to the Ministry of State, the reference to the Act on the Riksrevision, Section 12, which provides the Riksrevision with unlimited access rights, should be narrowed down due to the opinions of the Riksrevision in the past on which documents it is not normally necessary to have access to to in order to carry out the control work. There is also reference to an ongoing trial with the National Audit Office on the one hand and the Prime Minister's office on the other. Let me make it plain that under no circumstances is it the Prime Minister's office, as the representative of the executive, who decides which documents the Riksaudition should have access to. Nor are the previous opinions of the National Audit Office appropriate as a source of justice for general considerations of transparency. If provisions on the transparency of the Riksaudition are to be interpreted, it should be the Storting itself that makes such an interpretation and should be used as a basis for further work. Earlier in the form of a comment, the size has clearly expressed the limitations which may lie within the Court of Auditors’ right of access. Act on the Riksrevisions § 12 appears in itself as a general supervisory authority. The size has not included any of its own exceptions in the law from the general rule on transparency. However, in the form of a note, there is a reference to an agreement between the National Audit Office and the Government as regards the transparency of government notes, agendas, minutes, minutes, draft government notes and manuals drawn up by the Government Councils on matters on the agenda. A majority placed a significant emphasis on this consensus at the Innst. O. No 54 for 2003–2004. Regardless of whether or not one considers that this comment precedes the wording of the law, the exceptions mentioned in the note will not cover the department's risk analysis, which is at the heart of this specific case. I also note with interest that a unanimous committee of control and constitution in the Inner East. S. No 120 for 2008-2009 underlines ‘that the National Audit Board as the Supervisory Body of the Storting must have access to all relevant information and assumes that the Government will ensure that the Riksaudition receives the information it will have.’;» There is also a unanimous committee in this position that both fully quotes the legal provision in question and concludes unambiguously as follows: ‘The Committee will clarify that it is not for the department to assess which document it wishes to provide for consultation with the Supervisory Body. It is the assessment by the Riksrevision of the document needed to carry out its task on behalf of the Stortinget, which determines the document to be disclosed.’;» With that, I am tempted to say that the ongoing dialogue between the Riksrevision and the Prime Minister's office can be cancelled. The size has been said, and it can be expected that it will be based on all the state councils for the future. I am sure that the Defence and the National Audit Office's report in this area will be duly referred to by the case rapporteur, Mr. Borten Moe later, but I feel a certain need to note that the situation in the Defence Agency has been critical over time and that it is still so. I believe it is necessary for the National Audit Office to follow closely the Ministry of Defence, for so far the situation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence is too under-reliance. There is a situation that neither government nor greatness can live with in the long term. The main impression is that Norwegian administration operates relatively well, but there are some serious defects and deficiencies. It shows the importance of an active national audit, and since the Stortinge today also chooses a new board of directors for the National Audit Office, I think it is in its place that the Stortinge gives an indication of the vitally important position that the Riksrevision has in order to enable the Stortinge to exercise its constitutional control over the administration. The majority appreciates a national audit that goes into the difficult issues, not bends off, and that provides the Storting with a thorough and good tool to contribute to further improvement of the administration. The work of the National Audit Office is important to ensure citizens against the inefficient use of taxpayers’ money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2191	I will begin by saying that I fully agree with what the chairman of the committee just said about the role of the Control and Constitutional Committee in Norwegian enlargement. He had a remark that perhaps the role of the Storting as such was somewhat weakened because it was a majority government we had at the moment. I just want to say that at least it will not infect the work of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I think we are very much in agreement with the role that the committee should have, as the chairman of the committee has now said in his intervention. I start by explaining what I am responsible for, and it is about the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Committee's comments on the activities of these two departments. First to the Ministry of Finance: The National Audit Office has issued six final audit letters without any comments. The tax base, the Customs and Fees Act and the State pension fund — Foreign is, on the other hand, subject to critical attention. In the case of the State pension fund – Rest of the World, the comments are so comprehensive that the Riksrevisor has found reason to report the facts in a separate annex. That case will first come to Storting’s treatment over Christmas, and I am therefore not going to address the issue of Staten pension fund – abroad in this context. With regard to the other areas of the Ministry of Finance, several cases were also mentioned last year. Of the 14 issues to be followed from the treatment of last year's Document 1, only five are finally closed. Eight are followed up in the ongoing review, and one aspect — the control of traders by the tax administration — will be reported particularly next year’s treatment. I would like to stress the importance of the Government giving high and necessary priority to the follow-up to the observations of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Cross-sectoral and administrative interaction imposes specific requirements on good ICT solutions. The National Audit Office expresses concern about shortcomings in the flow of information between the Tax Agency and the State of Labour and Welfare. If we are to achieve the ambitious goals we have set for the establishment of Nav, data solutions that ensure the quality of registration and the ability to exchange information are an important prerequisite. The legitimacy of the tax system is based on the principle of non-discrimination. There is therefore a cause for concern when different practices for recording amounts for the equation of traders and the value added tax system are identified. A unanimous committee assumes that the Ministry of Finance will follow closely and thoroughly the submissions made by the National Audit Office on this point. The Committee further comments on weaknesses in the internal control of the tax haven. Despite the fact that the Riksrevision has also previously addressed the issue, procedures for blocking employee access to their own, colleagues and related equality data are still not in place and in order. I hope that the Committee does not have the basis for a similar comment when considering the next annual audit report. The collection of taxes by non-resident workers and companies has been a challenge for many years, as the Stortinget has received it. Tax recoveries abroad report a 2008 balance of between 1170 million. NOK 1,400 million. kr. I have noticed that the Ministry of Finance is not satisfied with the development and status of tax collection abroad, and assumes that the Ministry is now really following up this matter. The Committee has a number of comments on the administration of the Customs and Fees Act. It is important that procedures be established for the forwarding of customs declarations in due course to ensure that the facts can be documented. There is also a need to assess whether the scope of controls at export declarations, which in 2008 amounted to 0,1 pst, is sufficient. The Committee has also reacted to the continued lack of internal control procedures in the Customs and Fees Act and assumes that the Ministry of Finance is taking action. However, although there is still a point to make, I would like to stress that the administration in this area is both competent and serious and has great integrity. The National Audit Office also has some comments on the administration of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Two final audit letters have been issued without any comments, while questions have been raised about the business of the Husbank and the follow-up by the Ministry to the use of grants to the county councils for regional development. To take the last one first: with a budget of DKK 1.3 billion for that purpose, there is reason to expect the Ministry to show interest in the results of the projects. The Committee therefore requests the Riksrevisionen to follow closely the follow-up in this area. The Basic Loan Scheme is an instrument designed to contribute to the promotion of important housing qualities such as life-cycle standards and energy saving in new and existing buildings. The review by the National Audit Office of land-loan-funded construction projects shows that the control is insufficient and that the funds are used to a limited extent for the purpose. The Committee considers that this matter is addressed. The Committee has also chosen to comment on issues relating to the working time agreement and to breaches of the procurement rules in the case of the purchase of consultancy services, and requires the Ministry to take the necessary steps to deal with these matters. Then I would like to say something about the Committee's comments on the issue of the right of the National Audit Office to access documents as they appear under the chapter on the Ministry of the Environment, which was also carefully commented on by the chairman of the Committee. The question of the right of access of control bodies arises at regular intervals. It was at the heart of Storting’s treatment of the so-called Frøiland Committee, of the Storting’s control of government and administration, and when the Stortinget dealt with new law on the Riksrevision in 2004. In addition, the issue has been addressed in a number of contexts in recent years. The enforcement of the principle that Parliament’s supervisory bodies have access to the documents they need in order to carry out their activities is fundamental in an open, democratic society. The last time the Storting had asked about the transparency of treatment was in the so-called Terra case in the autumn of 2008. Then one of the themes was that the National Audit Office did not have independent access to the Ministry's file. To this end, an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs expressed an opinion, inter alia, on:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Court of Auditors considers that the National Audit Act gives the Riksaudition the right to examine the archives of the departments itself if this is necessary to carry out the tasks of the National Audit Office and refers to the Innst. [[2003-2004]] O. No 54 Furthermore, the majority of the Committee at the time referred to its comment during the examination of the new Bill of the Riksrevision, cf. Inner. O. No 54 for 2003–2004, where, inter alia: it was established that: ‘a clear precondition for the Riksaudition to carry out its tasks is that it has access to the necessary information in the framework of law and instructions.’;» In addition, it says: «The Committee assumes that the Court of Auditors' right of access is exercised in line with the Storting's assumptions.» So far quotation from the previous control committee. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has re-examined the issue of the right of the Court of Auditors to have access to administrative documents. The Committee would point out that it is not for the Ministry to assess which document it is desirable to make available to the control body. Furthermore, reference is made to the assessment by the National Audit Office of the document needed in order to carry out its task on behalf of the Stortinget, which is essential for the transparency of the document to be provided. I would like to remind you that a majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, when adopting a new law on the Riksrevision, took the view that the new provision on the right of access to the Riksrevision was neither a restriction nor an extension of the right of access in relation to the current practice, and that the majority of the preparatory work of the law made a narrower delineation in relation to which documents the Riksrevision could have access to. These clarifications must lead both to the Riksrevision and to the administrative practice of the legal provision governing the Riksrevision’s right of access to the Riksrevision’s assessment of its needs. The majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee then argued that as a general rule, the Riksaudition should continue to have transparency in the administrative internal documents. However, the majority noted that there was an explicit opinion both by the Riksrevision and the Government that the right of access does not include government notes, agendas, minutes, records, draft government notes and hand notes drawn up on items on the agenda. The majority placed considerable emphasis on this consensus and common understanding between the Riksrevision and the Government on the scope of the right-of-transparency limit and agreed to such an understanding. Consequently, the size has been guided by the documents for which the Stortinget considers that it is necessary for the Riksrevision to have access to, in order to carry out its control tasks on behalf of the Stortinget. I assume, of course, that this is fixed, and that it is the same as expressed in this setting. In this context, it is important to note that the Storting has assessed it in such a way that the transparency of the policy processes taking place in the departments will be of little audit interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2255	I refer you to the committee chairman's posts and can basically join me in the most. I have just the following small marginal comment on parliamentaryism: it is, of course, also parliamentaryism when the majority decides. What is perhaps new now is that there is now less dialogue between the majority and the minority than for a long time, but parliamentaryism is. In the very old days, it was well known as the Henvaldliche Parliamentarism. Then there were slightly fewer participants in the majority, i.e. only one participant. Now there are several, but the dialogue has not become much better with Stortinget as such. It is now a problem which in itself does not affect the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I can illustrate that by saying that in this matter that is now being discussed, I can entirely join the speeches of the previous speaker, i.e. the post by the representative Kolberg, representing the Workers' Party – I represent the Right – and I think about the rest of the committee also joins it. So I agree with Kolberg that this does not affect the control work, and that is essentially quite important. At some point I think there was a majority in the government's so-called sub-committees present here. Now there are only two out of four members, but they are in return the more important. I would like to recommend to the present members of this important body to address this, because there are so many issues that remain in the Riksrevision's criticism of the Government. Now this is the fifth Document 1 that I'm involved in, and if you study the posts that were held earlier, there's a lot of repetitions. Because these are the same things that are referred to repeatedly, and it is an expression that the coordination and follow-up work in the Government is not good enough. It's a prime minister's responsibility, as long as we don't have a Minister of Coordination. I understand that there was a slight error on that point, but the Prime Minister's secretariat is at least strengthened, so the coordination possibilities should be great. I would like to mention two examples of what is left in almost all of the National Audit Office's reports, including in this document. Point 1, the rules on the procurement of goods and services are constantly being violated, and point 2, which is also referred to in almost all departments, is the level of specification in the contract documents of the underlying agencies, e.g. Directorates are so low that it is difficult to verify whether the Directorates have actually followed the mission of the Department. It's worth noting, because it's really not that hard to do anything with. I believe in a way that any government will be well served that the letter of assignment is as specific as possible. I am not going to spend a lot of time on the particular case on which the previous two articles commented, namely the fact that the Ministry of the Environment has not followed what the Stortinget has previously decided in its decisions and comments, that it is not the investigating party – that is, the Ministry – that will decide what the Riksrevision should be transparent about. To put it simply, what has been said by the previous speakers. We continue to record, both in this case and in other cases, that the departments are holding back documents. The reference to the fact that the supporting documents for so-called risk analysis in the departments may contain assessments linked to matters dealt with by the Government is not sufficient to be an exception, for exceptions are specifically linked to, as mentioned above, r-notes, reports directly from government conferences and related manual notes, etc. So this action by the Minister for the Environment, as responsible for this specific matter, has pointed out that the Storting is not sustainable in relation to decisions and in relation to the law in force. You can get the impression that parts of the government think it's giving, for example. The Riksrevision – I say, for example, because we have also had cases relating to the Civil Ombudsman – transparency of documents is the same as publishing them. It's not, so the National Audit Office can have access to documents that they need to have access to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2276	Today, at the very least in 2009, the theme is the Riksaudition report on the annual audit and audit for the financial year 2008. The size looks back in time and thus carries out one of its most important tasks: critical supervision of the use of funds. From a point of view, these control activities began seriously in July 1824. In that respect, the Storting treated the national accounts for the period 1815–1818, and included: criticising the delays in audit work. In August 1827, the state accounts for 1819 and 1820 had been completed. Today the inspection work goes faster and easier. For the National Audit Office, this is done in accordance with modern legislation and not least in line with internationally recognised standards. But the historical perspective deserves some time and space initially and through the post, just to put this part of the Greatness's effect on the map and power and function into a larger context. Norwegian history since 1814 is a story of the expansion of the public sector. The share of government expenditure in gross domestic product has increased. The same thing is true of income. The greater the state budget, the absolute and relative to the value creation, the more important it is to exercise critical supervision that the democratic funds granted are actually used and invested in accordance with the guiding principles, assumptions, wills and decisions of the Grand Duchy. I would also like to add that in times of majority rule, the control task becomes even more important and updated. At my discretion, the control committee has a special responsibility to verify that the decision of the Storting is followed up in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. On the other hand, the right and obligation of the parent to exercise such control has frequently and for a long time been at issue. This has been partly about the balance between the state powers, between the executive power and the government and the granting and controlling power, the Storting. In his history of the first 150 years of the Riksrevision, Tim Greve writes that in 1918, the law on the State Audit Service meant that the end of the longest treatment has had some single thing in the history of the Constitution, namely the relationship between magnificence and government, largely over nearly 100 years. Then the battle between the two state powers had finally stopped, and no one was any longer in doubt that the Storting had the leading position. But just as full: 90 years later there are some stories that repeat themselves, for example. in the case of the Government's skepticism to the competence and transparency of the National Audit Office. In 1845, for example, The Ministry of the Church to answer the audit questions about the use of a scholarship given to three scientists for foreign travel in 1839. In concrete terms, it was Professor Jonas Collett who had received a scholarship of 800 specialties, on the condition that he was to stay abroad for 18 months. But did he? The accountants would know. The Ministry considered that it had no obligation to disclose it in detail. This view was unacceptable to Odelstinget, writes Count, and after a rather sharp statement the Church Ministry had to bend away. Today, this problem area has been updated. A unanimous committee supports the Riksrevision's criticism of the lack of transparency in documents relating to risk analysis in the Ministry of the Environment. The Committee stresses that the Riksrevision must – and shall – have access to the information and access to the documents necessary to carry out the tasks entrusted to it on behalf of the Storting. In isolation, this matter may be small, just like the 1845 anecdote. But they are equal and not least fundamental, purely in principle and constitutional: these individual issues highlight the contradictions between the state powers and end up with the Storting fixing its leading position, to say the word with Riksrevision's historian Tim Greve. I would like to dwell a little on the fact that the audit is denied transparency in documents of the Ministry of the Environment. This case is not unique either. Tomorrow, the Committee shall issue a matter of transparency to the Civil Ombudsman. In both cases, the Ministries and the Government claim that it is those who define the documents to be available to the appointed inspectors of the Grand Duchy. But how effective and how real can a control be whether it is the administration that defines access to documents and supporting material? I am therefore very pleased that there seems to be a full consensus in this room that it is the inspector who has to decide which documents are relevant or not. The criticism that the Ministry of the Environment is taking part in this setting is partly acute at this point. Then I have to add that it is satisfactory to note that in all other fields you go free from significant criticism. Thus, for the Ministry of the Environment, the issue of lack of transparency relates to different risk assessments related to internal management. It may be tempting to ask what policy risk assessments the Ministry took when they decided to refuse the Riksrevision's transparency here. What makes experienced government councils both in the Ministry of the Environment and in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which in turn are sensible and real peoples, suddenly find it useful to deny our control body transparency? I think it's good to say that the stingy criticism of a co-conspiracy is at least the premium, and that the morale is that this theme is never going to be out of date. Therefore, at the intersection of the two state powers, the Stortinget must protect transparency and democratic control. There are several debates relating to the right of inspectors to have access to information. And that's how there are exceptions in the law. The biggest problem with the exception of transparency is the grey areas created by these exceptions, as these specific cases show in practice. This is an argument for full and unrestricted transparency on the part of control officers — a practice that is also well known in many other countries. Speaking of the leading position of the Stortinge: Johan Sverdrup worked long and faithfully to strengthen the then state auditors in time and the struggle that led to the breakthrough of parliamentaryism. At one time he was also chairman of the military committee. This work had convinced him that the defense was a sector where it was likely that examples of bad administrative decisions and excessive use of money could be found. That is why Sverdrup was constantly committed to strengthening the State Audit Board — as it was called until 1938 — with military experts. One of his victories was to help get Colonel Hjorth elected as an accountant. Among the officials there was also military professional competence early in the 1800s, among them Lieutenant Boyesen and Captain Prydz. And they delivered the goods: half of the government audit records in 1880 were for military records. In 1881, the number was 60 pst. of the observations relating to the budgets of the Defence. This increased until 1888. Then the accountant and Lieutenant Colonel Hjorth went out of the State Audit. Once again, we see parallels -- unfortunately. The National Audit Office's observations on the Ministry of Defence are partly serious, and partly marked by being so-called repeaters. An overall committee broadly adheres to the Riksrevision's criticism. In 2008, EUR 32.6 billion was spent on defence – a large amount of money in all respects. The aim is at the heart of the state's responsibilities: defence of countries and peoples, democracy and rights – our freedom. So it's frustrating to see that both the number of notes and the degree of seriousness are roughly the same as it was in the 1880s. Extensive root of invoices, serious violation of the allocation regulations, deliberate start of unfinished systems, poorer overview of own stockpiles, expensive pilots in non-flying positions, non-payment – I think I will use the term ‘unmusical’ when the words ‘state’, ‘delay rates’ and ‘inkasso’ appear in the same sentence, where the State is the debtor – and in addition considerable unreported funds, just to mention something. This draws a picture of an establishment that does not have the necessary control and control — conditions that are totally unsustainable, especially when we talk about the country's defence. Particular emphasis is placed on the comments that cast doubt on the operational capability of the defence. We notice, of course, the Council of State's response that this does not go beyond the operational capability of the defence, and takes note of it. I think I will add two things for myself: firstly, this cannot possibly strengthen it. And in the wider sense, the defence depends on both trust and support for the necessary strengthening of the budgets. This type of audit report does not contribute positively in this way. I would therefore strongly urge the Ministry to give the work to clean up this top priority. A concerted committee further requests the National Audit Board to follow up the criticism of this core activity in the state – defence of countries and peoples – and to report back in the next edition of Document 1. To tell Isaac Newton, all the maggots are standing on the shoulders of fighters. Perhaps this is especially true of those of us who are members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. For the history of the Norwegian Constitutional People’s Government and the Stortinget as state power, men with a fundamental vision – and for economic policy reasons. The latter was not least important when, in 1821, the Stortinget adopted the first instruction for the State auditors. Public funds shall not be wasted, shall not be disposed of; public expenditure shall be used only and accurately in accordance with the decision and will of the Storting. This pattern of thought is timeless, but should be even more in time now than before. Because, as I said, with increasing government budgets, there is also an increasing risk of errors and fraud and breaches of laws and regulations and budgetary decisions. Perhaps the most serious relationship with the 2008 state budget review is related to Nav. This is being treated as a matter of its own, with its own consultation in the new year. However, I would like to make a few general remarks about this. We're talking about approx. one third of the accounts of the Norwegian State budget for 2008 are in such a bad condition that it is not approved. There are further major questions about whether people receive the assistance they need and demand, and whether public funds are being used in a sound and verifiable way. Had this been an organisation that had applied for state aid, or a developing country for which we are providing assistance, I dare to venture the claim that there would be significant problems with next year's payments. Overall, much is good, and much works, but there are also major and serious deficiencies that Norway anno 2008 should have been in addition. That's why today's case is extremely important. That is why this debate is extremely important. And that's why the Riksrevision is an increasingly important body in Norwegian society. Last but not least, this word change helps to confirm and consolidate the role and function of the Storting: in constitutional balance, the Storing will look ahead, make central premises for the development of society and deal with the long lines. But almost at the same time, the Storting must have eyes in the neck and look back, make sure that what was adopted happened. At this intersection between the future and the past, it is that Stortinget confirms its leading position today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2320	It may first be good to mention that when the Riksrevision presented this document, the National Auditor also clarified that much in the Norwegian administration is good. It's sometimes so that there can be two ditches where you represent reality. I do not have much to add to the general remarks made by the Committee's chairman and on which there is a great deal of agreement. I just want to add a few comments to what is a repetition in terms of several directorates and underlying agencies, namely the procurement regulation and its compliance. There is one repetition, mentioned by several, that there are problems with the Regulation. It is also the case that the National Audit Office will address this part in 2010. The question that should be raised in addition is why it is not possible to comply with the regulations. It's a matter of whether the regulations are good enough. Is it practical, or has it become so complicated gradually that it takes incredibly much for many to do this in a completely correct way? There's a tension between the perfect and what's good enough. Maybe we have a challenge right here in terms of acquisitions that take place under the control of the government. I think the national auditor himself was dealing with the exact question of the law of acquisitions in his presentation earlier this year. I, the undersigned, have responsibility for the Ministry of Justice and Police in this context, and it is a relatively unanimous committee which makes comments on the responsibility of this department. What might be reason to stop at is that the comments from the National Audit Office seem to be somewhat stronger in terms of some of the underlying agencies than before. I refer in particular to weaknesses in ICT management in the Police Directorate, police districts' control of security companies and weaknesses in the procurement area in the Criminal Service. An overall committee has stressed that when the Riksrevision has the opinion that the follow-up of these underlying establishments by the Ministry has not been good enough, especially given the fact that the situation has been reviewed repeatedly, one expects this to be put into practice with a slightly different focus than in the past. I would like to take the opportunity to make some specific comments regarding emergency networks, because it is an important matter, and because it affects large sums of money. It is the case that a separate Emergency Communications Directorate has now been set up. It has negotiations with suppliers on agreements to set deadlines in order to make them operational as soon as possible. I note that there are still some questions from the National Audit Office relating to the first stage of construction of the emergency network and the follow-up from the department regarding such a large investment. We in the Committee still want to keep a strong focus on this and hope that the Riksrevision will do so, because it is crucial that this goes right. I remember that on December 4th this year the government had to use the power to increase the cost framework for the emergency network by 110 million. NOK so that the overall cost framework now exceeds NOK 1.1 billion. It goes without saying that this is a huge sum, and it's essential that it goes right by itself, and that we can trust that it does. So we meet that the Riksrevision follows up the emergency network further forward. I will then link some considerations to something more have raised, namely the Committee's comments on transparency in risk analysis in the Ministry of the Environment. Let me say, for the record, that the Riksrevision has not made any comment on this matter, because there is a dialogue between the Riksrevision and the Prime Minister's office in order to obtain, if possible, a agreed guidance on the practice of document access by the Ministry and the National Audit Office. A unanimous committee has just as fully commented on the subject. I think the representative of Kolberg had a good description of both the Riksrevisionen's rights on behalf of Stortinget and the limitations that apply under the law under which the Riksrevisionen works. So I can agree with what Kolberg said. At the same time, I fully agree that it is not the case that they are being controlled, which sets out the framework for what is considered acceptable for the Riksrevision to go into. And at the same time, it's not like there's something carte blanche for the Riksrevision to ask for insight into what it might be. Here's the word of the Storting that applies, through the law we've passed, and with the notes that follow that law. That's where I'll be in case pending. If there is no consensus in the dialogue currently under way between the SMK and the Riksrevision, it must be up to the Stortingen to set out the detailed guidelines for this particular issue. But, as I said, it's not the one that's being checked, that sets the framework. Then we're going to run. In that way, the representative Borten Moe also had some interesting principal and not least historical considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2339	For us who have been sitting on the Storting for many years, and have been most busy in the budgets for the year to come, it has been interesting to see more in-depth on the accounts for the year that went on. It may not be so stupid to look at the work done in the future. I will focus my contribution on the two areas for which I have been the case rapporteur: the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. As regards the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, a Joint Committee has noted that the Riksrevision does not have significant observations on the Ministry’s management and implementation of the budget for 2008 and that five final audits have been carried out without any comments. With regard to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, this is a very large area. In 2008, the Ministry had a cost budget of NOK 120 billion. The Ministry was responsible for eleven establishments, four regional health establishments, one separate company and one separate law firm. An overall committee has noted that the Riksrevision has issued 10 audit letters without comments and one audit letter with comments to the Health Directorate. The Committee has also taken note of the National Audit Office’s reaction to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in St.prp. No 1 and more in letters of allocation to the Directorate-General for Health have budgeted for errors between grant and operating resources. These are matters that the Department has in retrospect taken seriously. Among other things, a project has been established to review budgeting and accounting. I therefore hope that this is now in order. In its report, the National Audit Board has expressed its criticism that the Health Directorate has a poor overall governance of the grant management and that the reporting of the achievement of the objectives of the individual grant schemes is fragmented. In this context, an overall committee considers that it is important for the Storting to have a good report on the achievement of its objectives, so that there can be no doubt as to whether the funds will be used for the purposes provided for by the Storting. The Committee has also noted that the average duration of treatment of Norwegian patients’ damages is two-and-a-half years for cases where compensation is granted and that patients complaining of decisions on the subject of the patient’s injury have to wait a further approx. one year on final decision. An overall committee considers that three to four years of treatment for such cases is too long and that work needs to be organised in order to significantly reduce the overall waiting time. It is also important to give priority to information work and user surveys. The Committee considers this necessary in order to allow patients to exercise their rights and to record user satisfaction and potential for improvement. I would also like to mention that a joint committee has noticed that the Norwegian patient registry is not complete, and that weaknesses in data quality, among others. due to the use of different systems in the specialist health service, and the absence of unique registrations and practices in the sector. An overall committee assumes that these are matters which are further elucidated and corrected. I do not go into this in any detail, but let me end by mentioning that there is now a comprehensive case of the Riksrevision's study of the financial management of healthcare companies to be treated by Stortinget after the year-end.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2369	It's said that the worst thing that can happen to a politician is to lose voice, and I'm very close there today, so we'll see how much of the post I'm going through. It could be a challenge. Today, we are examining Document 1 for 2009-2010 and the review of the annual audit and audit report of the National Audit Board for the financial year 2008. Everyone who has been sitting on the Stortinget for some time has dealt with the National Audit Office's reports, but after I became a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee in the fall, I have done my first dives in these reports. And I have to say I'm impressed by what comes from the Riksrevision. However, I am not particularly impressed by the work done in the Government. There is a general impression of a lack of governance that emerges from this document, such as the need for coordination of ICT systems, extensive breaches of the procurement rules and a number of major and minor factors that, if they had been present in a private enterprise, would have caused some to be fired, at least significant reorganisations and dishwashing. With this as my main impression, I'll say a little bit about some specific fields. In my contribution, I will first focus on the two departments for which I have the Rules of Procedure, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, and if the vote continues, I will also comment a little about the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health. First to the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Weaknesses in the financial and management system of the county offices have been a recurring problem. The system has made it difficult to coordinate and prioritise tasks. This has led to a small integration of central leaders from some departments into the internal governance documents of the offices. The Committee is concerned, but we have also noticed that the Ministry has taken action in this area. It must be assumed that the measures will have the desired effect so that the problems do not persist. I mentioned the initial problems with public procurement. The Committee, as indicated in the referral, has asked the Council of State what action is being taken in this field and the Council of State replies are annexed to the nomination. The letter from the Council of State sets out a series of measures taken to counter the detected breaches of public procurement legislation. It seems to the Committee that the tools and courses needed for a clear improvement in this field are now available. So you have the tool. It's just putting it into practice. So to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The scheme of grants for measures to combat poverty among children and young people in 23 urban municipalities will help to improve children and the conditions of young people's growth and living by providing holiday and leisure activities. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision considers that the legislation governing the grant scheme is inexhaustible and deficient. Among other things, there is a lack of criteria for achieving the target. This is unfortunate. We also notice that the department announces a change to the legislation. That's good. It is critical that 89 pst. of the child protection cases in 2008 had a longer period of proceedings than that provided for by the Child Protection Act. It is obvious that the length of the procedure may have serious consequences for the children concerned. An overall committee believes that it is too defensive when the ministry indicates that the average processing time does not show an increasing trend. The Committee would point out here that, although the Ministry has introduced new posts from 2007, the procedure is still too long. The reduction in the average duration of proceedings from 2007 to 2008 is mainly due to a reduction in the duration of proceedings in appeal cases. There are also considerable differences in the length of proceedings between the respondents. There is a clear need for the Ministry to take the necessary measures to reduce the length of proceedings. As a former representative of the Advance Party of the Family and Culture Committee, I have taken note of the ongoing challenges of the process of the counties. We in the Progress Party ask questions about whether you are actually trying to patch up a system that should have been replaced in its entirety. I would like to point out here that the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals that these matters should be added to the ordinary legal system. Another matter that has occupied me since the time I was in the family committee in Stortinget was the lengthy time for adoption. In this field, an overall opposition felt in its time that the government was paralysed. It is therefore with pleasure that I now note that an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs expresses concern at the length of the procedure and meets concrete improvements in this field after the public hearing in October gave an investigation into the adoption field. Here it is a significant potential for improvement. Another recurring theme of Norwegian family policy is Buffetat and childcare facilities. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refer to the Committee's letter of 18 November 2009 and the response of the Council of State of 25 November 2009 concerning the purchase of private child protection places by Bufatat. The majority also refers to the constant increases and exceedances in this field under the government of Stoltenberg. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that much indicates that the sitting government has a greater focus on the state's best, quality and governance of child protection as much as possible. This approach to the major challenges facing child protection obviously hampers the situation of both non-profit and commercial private providers, while making it more difficult to achieve the objective of good child protection. My appeal to the Government is to put ideology aside and think about what's best for the children. So a few words about the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The most important factor for immigrants who have come to our country to get a job and become an integral part of society is the language. In this context, it is important to show the zeal and effort of individuals themselves, but it is also very important that the quality of the language training provided by public authorities is high. I am alarmed that Document 1 shows that considerable funds are being allocated to language training for immigrants without any evidence of results consistent with the aim of training. I notice that there are a number of improvement measures going on in this field, and I hope they will bring it forward. Then it was Nav, who has been in the debate so far. Here you are up in what people would call a real soup – it may not be a parliamentary expression. The Committee shall have a hearing in this field over the year. I would already like to signal that the Progress Party is looking very seriously at the fact that the National Audit Office has not been able to confirm Nav’s accounts for 2008 and that there are weaknesses in internal control that result in a high probability that the accounts contain material errors and deficiencies. This is the auditor's language because something is very wrong. Then to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In particular, I would like to stress that the treatment period for Norwegian patients' damages is an average of 2.5 years for cases where compensation is granted, and that patients who complain about the patient's claims have to wait for a further approx. one year on the decision. I believe three to four years of treatment before applications are finally settled, is scandalous for a long time. Obviously, something has to be done to reduce this time use. I must say that I am disappointed with the Council's response in a letter of 25 November 2009, which states that the Council of State has a defensive position in this area. It seems that you are not so very concerned about the individual – and what they have been caused by suffering. I ask questions as to whether this has something to do with the government's view of the individual in Health-Norway. It is a government that also seems to believe that 280 000 people in health queues are totally ok and that the most important thing is that you do not use private providers. However, these are also issues to be addressed in the new year when the Committee is considering a case of the National Audit Office's study of the financial management of health care businesses. Then to the Department of Local and Regional Affairs. The National Audit Office has critical comments on the follow-up by the Ministry to the use of grants to the counties for regional development. In 2008, DKK 1.3 billion was allocated for this purpose. There is little overview of the results of the projects, and there is considerable potential for improvement. Finally, the Ministry of Culture and the Church. I have noticed, of course, that the Riksrevision has significant observations on in particular Norwegian Typing. There will be a hearing in the new year in connection with the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:14 for 2008-2009. However, I would like to point out that the Progress Party is looking very seriously at the circumstances that have arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2430	I will first be allowed to agree with the representative Hans Olav Syversen that all aspects taken into account are certainly Norwegian administration relatively good. It works pretty well. When you heard the last post, it seemed like Norwegian administration is just misery. But it's not. That is what I say despite being the case rapporteur for the former Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, including the Employment and Welfare Act or Nav. I'm not going to go into the depth of what's in the National Audit Office's report on Nav at this point, because, as we've heard before tonight, the committee is going to have an open hearing on 15 January based on Appendix 2 to Document 1, i.e. on Nav. I just have a few brief comments. Because it is serious that the National Audit Office cannot confirm Nav’s accounts for 2008 – we are talking about NOK 300 billion. In good Norwegian, this means that the accounts are not approved. The National Audit Office's report identifies weaknesses in Nav's internal control, which give rise to a high probability of material errors and deficiencies in the accounts, and raises doubts as to whether Nav's arrangements are in line with the Storting's decisions and assumptions, applicable legislation and standards of government financial management. But this is going to come back to. We'll have time to really go through this whole report, including what the Department and Nav thought, when we're going to have a hearing on 15 January. I would like to add, as far as Nav is concerned, that I personally might think that it is nevertheless the lack of competence in the first-line service that is the most worrying, because it indicates that those who serve the normal man and woman do not have the necessary skills in this area, and that goes beyond the ordinary man and woman of course. I think it was Borten Moe who said that if Nav had been a u-country, and we had given assistance, at least the un-country would not have received assistance for the coming year. In the case of aid — Norwegian development policy — it is quite gratifying that there are few comments this time. Norwegian aid amounts to more and twenty billion kroner, and there is not always so much discussion about the content, but perhaps the most about how much of the gross national income Norwegian aid should be. The National Audit Office has raised on several occasions a lack of control over both long-term aid and humanitarian aid. This has taken both Norad and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seriously and put a lot of work into it. This time, there are two issues that have been highlighted: assistance to Serbia and assistance to non-governmental organisations in Angola. I'm not going to say anything about Serbia, I'm assuming that Waksdal is doing after me. However, the National Audit Office notes that further action is being taken to strengthen the management of these funds. It is also underlined that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has zero tolerance for corruption in all Norwegian-supported projects. I would like to add that the National Audit Office's examination of assistance often contributes to a more constructive debate, including on the impact of aid on development and long-term economic growth. I think it is necessary that we constantly have, or take, that debate. In recent years, Norway has tried to make assistance more strategic and underlines that aid is only part of development policy. This means a closer link between foreign policy, security policy, trade policy and climate policy in order to contribute to the wider development of a country. It also involves taking strategic action throughout development policy. In a country like Angola, which is also a very rich developing country, Angola does not receive so much assistance from Norway. If we ignore the agreed Oil for Development agreement – that is, to help Angola achieve a fair management regime of oil revenues – aid is channelled mainly through Norwegian and local private organisations. Norwegian People's Aid continues to run mining operations and also has a microcredit project. The Church's Emergency Aid and Angolan Catholic Church are other organisations receiving Norwegian funding for projects in Angola. It is reported in the National Audit Office’s report that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has worked actively in recent years to improve reporting and control procedures, not least from local Angolan sister organisations to, for example, Norwegian People's Aid and the Church's Emergency Aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2456	During the audit of the Ministry of Transport and its activities, the National Audit Office issued four final audit letters without comments and two audit letters with comments on the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. During the audit, it has been found that both departments and underlying establishments do not have adequate risk assessment systems as part of the target and performance management. Although this varies slightly between enterprises, this is an unacceptable situation. The audit has also revealed some significant increases in the cost of construction contracts and that this is about. half of the controlled contracts. For two of the contracts, the cost had increased by a total of 100 pst. relative to the original contract total. Substantial additional work was also found that was not covered by the contracts, which amounted to between 10 and 80 pst. of the contract sum. This should, of course, have been declared in accordance with the public procurement legislation, and this procedure is therefore clearly contrary to this legislation. The National Audit Office also pointed out similar issues for 2007, unfortunately without this seemingly helping. There is also reason to point out the major negative deviations between planned and implemented control activities related to road safety work in the State Road Service. A unanimous committee agrees with the Riksrevision's criticism of this, stressing that this can'lead to more accidents and lower road safety'. And last but not least, I will focus on the NSB's lack of reporting of cancelled trains, which should have its background in that the railway works cannot indicate how much part of a section is divided. The majority of the Committee also points to the very negative statistics on train running and points to the fact that according to the Riksrevision, only the Fly train and the Gjøvik Railway meet the requirements for punctuality. This is completely unsustainable. Then go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry has set up a grant scheme for Serbia aimed at contributing to peace, reconciliation and democratic development, with particular emphasis on supporting economic, political and social reform processes, institution building, defence, security and justice reforms, as well as industrial development. The scheme, which for 2008 amounted to 135 million. kr, is administered by the Ministry, with the assistance of the Embassy in Belgrade in terms of the application process and project management. The National Audit Board questions whether the organisation is satisfactory and adequate for the management and follow-up of the various grants. The Ministry, for its part, has argued that it has not been possible to strengthen the follow-up within the economic framework that has been available. A unanimous committee ‘supposes that funds are allocated to different projects without having mechanisms for satisfactory follow-up and control.’;» The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to draw up operational arrangements for the follow-up of these projects. Corruption shall not be tolerated in the management of Norwegian aid funds. However, lack of transparency in the Serbian administration system, lack of state accounts and non-functioning national audit is a major challenge when operating in the country. It is therefore reassuring that the Ministry immediately follows up all reasoned suspicions and maladministrations and stops all transfers until the cases are resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2482	As one of four in the Committee which has two committees to sit in, I found with the leadership of the Committee, and with the one experienced in the Committee, that we have found a form of work for the Government Party and the opposition which I believe may be constructive in relation to the consequences of the Riksrevision pointing out. I'm very happy with that. In socialism, we call this a 'unit front'. If you have a common front, it's easier to clean up what's bad and difficult – it's dangerous to say it here, with all those in this committee. What's taken up and what we're involved in in terms of transparency is very important. This applies not only to the Civil Ombudsman, but of course also to the Ministry of the Environment – it should be transparent. It is the inspector who shall determine which transparency he or she will have. This has SV's full support, and we are gathering behind the committee here. I am in addition to the Transport Committee, and some of the issues raised by the National Audit Office from there are very interesting – and it has to be cleaned up. A matter for which we will discuss later in the Committee – for which Mr Vaksdal is the case-speaker – is a merger contract, offer and maintenance. What happened in 2003 was that one reorganized, which would lead to one saving 15 pst. of road maintenance costs. That's what was done then. But then it turns out, as the National Audit Office points out, that some contracts have become 100 pst. more expensive, actually. Otherwise, if you look at what the department itself says, it's on average 40 pst. more expensive than in 2003. Then I thought it was exciting to go into this to see if we could do something about it. Maybe the medicine that one has taken on, not the right one, because the patient doesn't seem to be getting better, just worse. Perhaps the diagnosis is wrong, and perhaps it is that the methodology we use – and that used by the National Audit Office – is not entirely correct in resolving the problem. Now we get a case about this, and we have to have a hearing about this – and then we get an explanation about the different sides here can be corrected. At least it's the starting point for the red-green and for the committee that we have to go through this, so that we don't continue with anything that doesn't work 100 pst. Finally, I would like to say that my impression – after meeting the National Auditor and his staff – is that they are doing a very good job. We're going to follow them forward, so that they get sharper and even better, but my impression is that this looks very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2495	I have to admit that I don't feel like I'm part of such a united front, but I can join them in the committee that said it's a very exciting task to sit on the control and constitution committee. I also think it's a very exciting group to sit in – the committee composition we have in terms of both management and representation from opposition and position. So I think this is going to be an exciting job. One of the reasons why I think it's exciting, is related to the first posts here today, which were about us having a very broad consensus on the challenges we have as members of the Control and Constitutional Committee, but also about controlling a majority rule. For it is not anti-parliamentary to have a majority government — rather on the contrary — but it is important to safeguard minority rights, and it is also important to remember that power originates from this hall at all times. It is this hall that is the basis of the power of any government. It's an important principle to remember, even when you have a majority government, sail if it's much easier to be reminded of it during a minority government. I am the case rapporteur for what has to do with the Ministry of Culture, and there are a few comments I want to raise. One goes to the Information Service's fund, which has several comments related to internal control and accounting errors. Here, in November, the Ministry has started a work which we hope will come to an end. It seems that the department has taken care of the problems. The other goes to Norwegian Tipping. We're going to have our own hearing in January, so it's going to be a separate matter. Within cultural policy, perhaps revising a special challenge is because we have to assume that we have some cultural policy objectives for what we do when we give money to the cultural field here in this room – and there must be targets that can be measured by an audit. However, it is important to bear in mind that in that perspective there is an artistic freedom — and a voluntary sector used — that makes having a traditional approach to auditing more difficult in the field of culture than in other fields. But that does not mean that one should not strive to find the measurable units in relation to the purpose of the Storting in terms of money use. What lies at the bottom here is what Ola Borten Moe started to say today – that this is the community's resources, and that the community's resources are to be used with respect for the community. This is a different kind of use of money than the one you find elsewhere in society. I would also like to comment on the rather tight remarks about the Ministry of the Environment's handling regarding the transparency of the National Audit Office. The government should take note of these comments, on which there is broad consensus in this Chamber. This is also something that should definitely be taken into account within the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2510	The healthcare sector accounts for a very large proportion of total value added in Norway and it is important that resources are used efficiently. We agree with the criticism from the National Audit Office and from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs regarding the areas referred to in Document 1. I would just like to comment on a few areas, which were also commented on by the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen. The Directorate-General for Health has a broad responsibility and manages a large number of different grants for several departments. In order to ensure better compliance with the rules for the acquisition and management of grants in the Directorate of Health, the management of the Department and the Directorate will follow this up separately. We will pay particular attention to the reporting related to how the Directorate follows up its own projects and action plans to close the deviations. The reporting requirements were also followed up in the management meetings, which we will of course continue with. So to another point that was raised, and it's about the trial period in Norwegian patient damages, which I totally agree with is too long. The long procedure period is mainly due to – of course – the growth in the number of new cases up to 2007 and the closure of many lawyers in 2007 and 2008. And even if it takes time to replace highly competent employees, it now seems that the department has the power to increase efficiency. Norwegian patients’ compensation will deal with significantly more cases in 2009 than in 2008, and in the 2010 State budget, Norwegian patients’ compensation has increased by 10.75 million. kr in relation to the 2008 budget. The increase in appropriations and the continued effectiveness of the processing time are likely to lead to a decrease in average processing time by 2010. It is necessary to stress that there is a trend in the number of new cases in 2010 that will determine how quickly the establishment manages to shorten the procedure period, but we note that the number of annual work in Norwegian patients’ compensation has doubled from 2003 to 2009, from 57 to 116,5 years. And the number of employees will increase further, that is, in 2010. Treatment time in the patient injury department has fallen in recent years, development here is closely linked to the number of cases that Norwegian patients’ compensation is dealing with. In 2003, there were probably 8 annual works in the Patient Damage Study. In 2009, the number has increased to more than 30 years. So some comments on the Ministry of Defence's budget on behalf of the Minister of Defence. Then I would like to say the following: the Ministry of Defence attaches great importance to good financial management and good governance and therefore takes the Riksrevision's comments very seriously. All administration in the defence sector shall be sound. The use of resources shall be effective and the accounting and documentation requirements shall be met. The activities of defence and defence buildings are monitored on an ongoing basis. The budgets report each month on specific lists of actions for financial management, sound management and management of activities. So-called repeaters are given special attention in the dialogue with the agencies, and they have among other things. The theme of the etat management meetings has been repeated. The Ministry of Defence has implemented several measures that have resulted in quality improvement in a number of areas. Previous challenges, such as the quality of forecasts, the reduction in the consumption of investment funds and the mispayment of wages, have also greatly improved, and it is positive that the National Audit Office has taken note of this. In 2009, the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Defence and Defence Buildings, launched actions to further strengthen the etat's internal control and further develop business and financial management. Let me stress that the Minister of Defence is not satisfied that there are still some repeaters among the Riksrevision's comments. State Council Grete Faremo will have a monthly report on the FDA's flow of invoices on its table, and she is also demanding the defence of a marked improvement by the end of 2009 and further improvement by 2010. I would also like to stress that improvement in administration is among the top priority areas of the Defence Manager in the current year. The introduction of the economic project has given rise to some accompanying problems in the Defence. A major effort has been made to stabilise the operation of the solution by the end of 2010. Here I want to add that in terms of the number of unpaid invoices – although it is still too high – it is at least in the right direction, and that the number is reduced, although of course it is not good enough until all invoices are paid in time. To one last point: the Ministry of Defence does not agree that there has been a general decline in the military practice for several years. In 2008, there was a decrease in the exercise activity in some parts of the establishment. Part of this decrease was a planned development related to the replacement of key weapon systems, such as frigates and the introduction of new transport aircraft. In addition, as outlined in the 2008 Defence Budget, the Ministry chose to prioritise resources for the phase-in of the FIF 2.0 economic project. Absence of the ‘Cold Response’ and ‘Gemini’ exercises in 2008 was partially compensated by two smaller multinational exercises. This gave the participating units a good exercise benefit. The planned reduced exercise in 2008 did not affect the exercise and training of strength contributions to foreign operations. Such training and training shall be carried out and ensure that out-of-office departments are able to perform the tasks assigned, independently and in a multinational framework. On the whole, the Minister of Defence believes that Norway is fulfilling the obligations we have undertaken in the NATO context, in a good way. Norwegian military contributions out and at home hold a very high level, which is also noted by our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2529	The position of the National Audit Office as the control and audit body of the administration is strong and shall be strong. It is further underlined by the high degree of unanimity in the Committee on Document No. 1 for 2009-2010. It's really the way to do the best possible job together, according to the tasks we're assigned to do in different positions and in different contexts. We initially have a common interest, as we say. Then, of course, there is a necessary political disagreement from time to time. But this common interest is that, among other things, money shall be spent in the most appropriate and reasonable manner possible – that one achieves the results that a person wishes and that the quality of the services to be provided is as good as possible. This is an annual use of approximately DKK 900 billion, which is the total size of the budget that the Stortinget has just adopted for 2010. In this context, it was interesting, as the representative Borten Moe pointed out, that one already in 1821 had a kind of rule of action. It was a good idea that money should be used sensibly. It's something that's over time. I've seen this from different angles. I have been both legislator, executive, supervisor and mediator – and citizen. One of the roles has been the role of the county, which has as one of its main tasks the exercise of control and supervision, while providing advice and guidance to the municipal sector. At the same time, the county is also a legal security body. It is in a way a very clear line from decisions in the Storting, through control of the administration, to ensure that the decisions of the Stortinge serve countries and people in the best possible way. I also think it is good to hear that several speakers in the debate have said that the quality of the administration is consistently good, that we have an administration that has high integrity, high quality and a high level of knowledge. It is important for a country like Norway. So some general things that have been affected in the discussion: Of course, it's an important principle that you have to make sure that it's equal to the law. One shall ensure compliance with tender rules and shall ensure that there are good control and reporting procedures between the administration at the central and external levels. It is important that the references made by the Riksaudition and followed up by the Monitoring Committee be implemented and that it be ensured that they are done as intended. I have noticed what the representative Martin Kolberg said about the question of the transparency and delivery of documents, so that the Riksrevision can do the job that the Riksrevision is supposed to do. In the debate, several have joined the views of the representative, Mr Kolberg, both the representative, Mr Foss and the representative, Mr Syversen. I have no problem dealing with the view that this is expressed, in relation to the job that the Riksrevision is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2544	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1267]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2552	The size goes to voting in case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e2849	During the debate, 41 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 2-10, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 11-19, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 20-37, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 38, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right-wing Proposals No. 1 and 39–41, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 41, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Frame area 9 I [[Industry]] The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: 900Ministry of Agriculture and Trade1Operating expenditure170 927 00021Special operating expenditure, may be transferred36 000 00023Simplicit measures, may be transferred8 000 00070Contributions to international organisations20 400 00072Contributions to emergency arrangements3 000 00073Assurance to Young Entrepreneurship, may be transferred26 000 000 000901Assurance expenditure201 600 000902Administrative expenditure1Administrative expenditure85 800 00021Special operating expenditure2 000903Norwegian accreditation1Operating expenditure31 600 000904Final operating expenditure285 950 00022Administrative management of the Altin marine solution, may be transferred213 500 00023Public information services, may be transferred14 550 000905Norges geological survey1Operating expenditure122 100 00021Special operating expenditure67 300 000906Dirrectorate expenditure 300 000 000activityamagedto 900 000activities1 [[ESA]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e4713	The proposals are then put to the vote. 39 and 40, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e4739	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–37, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e4860	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e4880	The proposals Nos shall now be voted on. 11-19, except paragraphs 13, 14 and 19, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e4930	The proposals Nos shall now be voted on. 13, 14 and 19, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e4960	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e5028	The proposal for a decision under the Framework Areas 9, 10 and 11 shall now be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e8275	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-14.ana.ud1628e9517	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
