ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Rune Henriksen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e43	– and we'll come back with more later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e48	However, the propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e62	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e71	Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for an excellent cooperation. This case is related to the proposition that Stortinget dealt with just a few minutes ago, and behind it lies the great inter-political church settlement. In order to implement the choice to be made for the harvest, a basis for the experiment is necessary. In the hearing held on this matter by the Committee, there has been unanimous support for the legislative proposal under consideration. However, there is one area where there has been some disagreement, and there is a need for the ministry to have to approve the rules chosen by the Church meeting for the elections. There is an alternative proposal to the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, where one does not depend on the approval of the Ministry, but on the basis of the decision taken by the Church meeting on the electoral system. It is linked to the economic nature of the Ministry’s main justification for having this qualification. In the case of the Progress Party, it is reasonably clear that the Grand Duchy is the granting authority, and the Church must, in whatever decision it takes, deal with the financial framework adopted by the Grand Duchy at all times. In the hearing, the Council of Churches stated that they assume that the ministry does not interfere with the decision of the Church meeting, even if it is given room or opportunity at home. The opposition is not as safe as the Church Council, and that's why this proposal lies here. At the same time, at least the Progress Party believes that the minority proposal is much better in line with what will be the church system of the future, where government governance and control over the Church will be significantly reduced. It is an area included in the proposition which is not directly related to the legislative proposal itself, but which is linked to a public debate that has been going on for a while, namely the Church's desire to strengthen the press function. In this context, it is suggested by the Church that they wish to establish a twelfth bishop to deal with the pressure system, thus strengthening church leadership and contact with public authorities. In the hearing, it became clear that very much is unclear about the circumstances surrounding the 12th bishop. We also heard that the Council of Bishops was out and said that their support for the twelfth bishop depended on where the twelfth bishop was to be located, and that there had been a number of different issues that had been the subject of debate. That is why it is very good that a unanimous committee agrees that this whole issue should be raised for the Storting and presented as its own case. I think it is safe to say that there is a cross-political consensus that the Church's wish for a strengthened press function has a very good response in this house. I would like to address the minority proposal and at the same time draw attention to the fact that all parties will finally support the vote, albeit some of them subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e88	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e91	The case rapporteur, Anundsen, has presented the matter in a good and straightforward way, and I will therefore try at the longest time to avoid repeating too much of what has already been said. For that reason, I can only refer to Ot.prp. No 34 for 2008-2009 and, of course, the opinion of the Committee. As I said, the Committee has broadly agreed on this matter. It is good, not least for the Norwegian Church, who thus knows that the Stortinge is behind the work that is now to be done in the Church. The whole thing is about an important part of the political agreement that all the parties on the Stortinget signed last year. That agreement was about the development of relations between the state and the Norwegian Church, and the part to which I am aiming in this agreement is about the development of democracy. In this there are, among other things: how to facilitate the church elections to be held during the harvest. We know that there have been various attempts and actions in the past to raise the number of elections, both in 2001, 2005 and 2007. This involved different information measures, choice cards, proportional choices, etc. Although the trials have been conducted and their experience has been drawn, there is now a need for a new experimental home in the Church Act because the trials this time are also about a new composition of the Bishops' Council and the Church Meeting. As regards the Presidency function in the Bispe meeting, the Committee has not finally concluded here, at least not in this committee reading. We've noticed that the Bakkevig Committee believes that the press function should be strengthened, and that this sample called for the creation of a twelfth bishopship. The Bishops’ meeting, in reply to the recommendation of the Bakkevig Committee, has said that they support the selection with regard to the proposal to strengthen the press function. The Bishops' Meeting has also asked for the establishment of a twelfth episcopate in its own decision. On behalf of the majority, we support the strengthening of the press function and the creation of a twelfth bishopship. We are aware that unresolved issues still remain, for example: electoral system, questions of own diocese for press and not least location. We therefore look forward to the Government presenting a separate case to the Stortinget where these issues are clarified. This is a supported setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e108	I would also like to say that, first of all, I would just like to endorse that, and insofar as the other speakers as well, have said that this is a matter of great agreement, with the exception of the one proposal put up by Mr Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. There's no reason to relate so many comments to so much other than the pressure function, because I see that from the Council of State and the Department there is a willingness to do something to strengthen the pressure function. There has been a clear and expressed wish both in the hearing held by the Committee in connection with the examination of the matter, and a clear wish from the Bishops' Meeting and from the Church Meeting. The reasons for a strengthened pressure function are many, and I'm not going to go into these here. But there's only every reason to establish, at least from the Right, a support for the Church's desire for a strengthened press function. There will then be a separate case submitted to the Storting in this regard, and there is therefore no major discussion about the details of a reinforced press function or a twelfth bishop's office today. But I just want to say from the Right that we share the view the Church has on the need to strengthen the press function. It's a demanding function, and perhaps over the last few years you've looked up an increasingly obvious need for a strengthening, all the time the Church is expected to be more present both in people's lives and in the general development of society, and that there is therefore also a need for a strengthened pressure function. But it has also been important for the Right to signal through the treatment in the committee that when we now have a more loose connection between state and church, it is also natural that the Church seams contribute to the design of the detailed rules on how this pressure function is to be performed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e117	Nor does this case have the large lines of conflict in itself. It is a necessary follow-up to the agreement on the relationship between state and church that we agreed on last year. For the past decade, the Church of State has increased autonomy, with democratically elected bodies such as councils, councils of bishops and councils, and with its own church meeting. The church meeting is also a legislative assembly on inner-church issues. In many cases, the Church's own organs have assumed responsibility in the spiritual/theological field, properly on the delegation, except for the appointment of the top leaders. I'm glad that through the agreement we start a process where the parties' common goal is that the appointment of bishops and prosthetics be transferred from the church council to church bodies such as the church meeting or the council of bishops. One element in this was also that a democracy reform should be launched, as the Norwegian Church itself wants and has worked with over a long period of time. The agreement sets out the elements to be implemented: increased use of direct elections, church elections are to be carried out at the same time as public elections, and real choices. This is therefore a reform to be assessed on the basis of structure and not as a percentage of the turnout. It is about making it possible for all members of the Norwegian Church to – and that it is easy and simple – participate and participate in and influence in the Norwegian Church. The proposition also addresses the issue of a strengthened pressure function. The background to the proposal is that the Bishop's meeting, with the support of the Church meeting, has asked for such a function to be strengthened. There is no doubt that being a bishop in a diocese involves a great added burden. Today, the pressure is chosen for a period of four years. Presses shall ensure that the bishops are convened, and shall conduct the proceedings in plenary meetings and in the Bureau. Presses is otherwise appointed as a permanent representative in the Council of Churches and in the Nordic primate meeting. In addition, the president shall represent the Bishops' Meeting in the media and in central and ecumenical contexts if no other bishop has been elected. In other words, Presse is given a national role with official missions in the country and abroad. An important function, which is also increasing in scope, is contact with the media. Presses is to a large extent the official representative of the Norwegian Church in the national media. With the increased requirements and tasks assigned to the pressing function over the years, it is natural that it is no longer possible to combine these two functions. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the Ministry's proposal to strengthen the press function and that this will also include the creation of a twelfth bishop, because this is in line with the Church's own wish. Much work remains to be done and many unresolved issues remain before such a new system can be introduced. The Committee has agreed that we believe that the Storting should be dealt with as a matter of strengthening the press function in the Church after the Church itself has taken a decision on which models it believes are most relevant for strengthening the press function. It's probably no surprise that for the Christian People's Party it will be the Church's positions that will guide how we will design such a type of pressure function, and what the establishment of a twelfth diocese will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e138	That's what most people have stopped at, that's the pressure function. As the committee says, everyone agrees that the pressure function should be strengthened, as the Church also says. The bishop's meeting has also asked for the establishment of a twelfth diocese in his own decision. The Central Party has held its national meeting a few weeks ago and adopted the programme for the next major period. In this program, under the church, it says that Trondheim is to be the church capital. That's what's going on in the Center Party. So the question is what does one put in this that Trondheim is going to be the church capital. But I think it is important to say from this pulpit that it has said at its national meeting and in the programme for the next period, and that it will be decisive for the Central Party in relation to how we evaluate this with the press function and the twelfth diocese. I would like to say – as Dagrun Eriksen said – that the Centre Party will of course also listen to what the Church says, but it is important to stress that the decision on this is actually to be taken here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e145	The left is behind the attitude, because essentially it's the legal follow-up to the Church Agreement last year, with which we've expressed joy and satisfaction, which here gets its practical follow-up. We are in agreement with the Right and the Advance Party on part of the matter, but as we have expressed, we will vote subsidiaryly for the vote, along with the two parties. With regard to the matter that has become a matter in the matter, namely the press function, I would just like to say the following: The left supports the idea that we should have a twelfth bishopship, and we support the idea that we should strengthen the press function. But we are also of the opinion that there is a lot that has not been clarified in the matter, and therefore we also look forward to Stortinget getting a case that shows which models we are going to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e152	The proposal for amendments to the church law under consideration today follows up the agreement on the future relationship between state and church that was concluded between all political parties on 10 April last year on the Stortinget and the treatment of the country-church notification. The political agreement we call the Church Agreement is based on the implementation of a process whereby the appointment of bishops and prosthetics is transferred to church bodies other than church councils. The agreement presupposes a first democratic reform and sets certain requirements for the content of the reform. The reform shall contribute to the strengthening of the legitimacy and anchoring of Church members. In order to facilitate legal and financial reform in line with the assumptions set out in the political agreement, the Government has submitted one outright proposition and one outright proposition. There is a close link between the draft law and the proposal for a supplementary appropriations for the implementation of the democratic reform, which we discussed in the Grand Duchy a few minutes ago. I am pleased that the entire committee is following up on the proposal to amend the church law. The amendment is necessary in order for church elections to be conducted in 2009 in accordance with the electoral rules adopted by the Church meeting. The church meeting is empowered to lay down electoral rules which differ from the church law provisions on the composition of the dioceses and the church meeting. It is in line with today's division of powers and with the leadership of the political agreement that democracy reform should be implemented in cooperation between church and state bodies. Similarly, the Church Meeting and the Council of Churches have the primary responsibility for the implementation of the reform. The Committee notes that the composition of the Church Meeting for the elections well meets the requirements of the political agreement and the democratisation work in the Church. I'm glad. The rules lay down, for example: up to the establishment of real options, increased use of direct elections and church elections at the same time as the severance elections in September. Elections to the Council of Bishops and the Church meeting shall be conducted on the basis of two different models and the elections shall be evaluated. The electoral rules are largely based on the proposals of the Bakkevig Committee. One of the issues raised in the large round of hearings on church democracy was the press function. In the bill, we also address the question of strengthening the press function in the bishop's meeting. This matter has been raised in connection with the work of democratic reform, and it acts, among other things. on the establishment of a twelfth bishop in the Norwegian Church. A press that has more time to follow up the work of the bishops and perform active international work will be a great strength for the Norwegian Church. It is true, as it was said here from Dagrun Eriksen, that it is a great burden to be the leader of a great diocese, while now getting more and more international work and being the Church's face outwards in many different contexts together with – of course – the Church Council's leader. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is in favour of strengthening the press function and establishing a twelfth bishopship. After obtaining the Storting's principal agreement, we can start work on how the pressing function can be strengthened in practice. It is also quite correct, as several of the representatives said from the pulpit, that there are many details that need to be clarified. Is that supposed to be a diocese of your own? Will it be chosen from among the bishops appointed, or shall it be a new one? There are many such things that require clarification, including the localization, that someone has been involved here. We will present a case to the Storting about the details of this and have the ambition to do so in the course of the year, of course, after the Church's organs have dealt with the matter thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e169	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 466]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e185	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes. In addition, 5 minutes of speaking time is proposed to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e196	The Economic and Social Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 15 on new animal welfare laws. This has been a matter on which the Business Committee has spent a long time. We have had a comprehensive consultation process and, in my opinion, we have also had a good deal of work in the committee, which has led to the opposition being able to make an impact on the recordings that we have made, and also on the recordings that have been made during the hearing. I want to commend the government parties for having met some hearing bodies and the opposition, and I come back to some of the points. In Norway, I think most people are in complete agreement that we should have strong animal protection. Those who associate and own animals, whether as agricultural professionals, other types of livestock or in the pet sector, are of the opinion that animals are to be treated in a good and dignified manner. This new animal welfare law will contribute to this. The law has also been given the name animal welfare law in relation to animal welfare law in the past. It reinforces the view that we want a stronger focus on animal welfare. The purpose of the law is to promote good animal welfare and respect for animals. We as human beings should have great respect for and treat other living beings here on earth with the respect and dignity they also deserve. This shall not prevent us from using animals for the benefit of humans, for example: in agriculture, to get us the food we need. The new law also comes from new research. Much more knowledge has been gained about the needs of animals, the emotions of animals, and the sensitivities of animals. As members, we have gained considerable knowledge of this through the consultation process and the input that has been made there. It is important to stress that this is new knowledge that has contributed to the foundation of the new law. Norway shall lead the world in the field of animal protection. Then it is natural for us to impose ever more stringent requirements, based on the new knowledge that we have, on those of us who are going to associate animals and keep animals, whether as individuals or in business. At the same time, there have been some issues of dispute during the handling of this matter. I'll take some of them right away. Perhaps the biggest question in this case is the question of animal self-value. In the consultation proposal, which they sent out before sending the proposition to the Stortinget, the government had a sentence in Section 3 on animal self-value. It read: «Animals have a self-esteem regardless of the value they may have for human use.» There was a considerable pressure during the committee’s examination of the case to re-enter the concept of ‘self-valued animals’ in the legislative text because it would give animals a stronger legal position than the law would give without that expression. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, has included this concept and the sentence which was then deleted after the Minister’s consultation round. Now I think that all parties believe that animals should have a self-esteem, and that we, among other things, should have a self-esteem. shall treat animals with a high degree of respect. As rapporteur of the case, I have had problems in defining what change it will be to animal welfare when the term ‘own value’ is included in the legal text. I think those who are going to interpret this law, it's going to be the administration or the justice system, will have a significant challenge in defining this term. The majority have written in their comments that the concept of ‘self-esteem’ should not have any meaning for as we know the animal population today. Then I would like to ask, what is the point of including such a concept if it is not to contribute to a significant improvement in the legal position of animals? The question then is, what will this have to do with the general livestock population? Is there any restriction on those who currently hold animals in the agricultural sector, in the fisheries sector or in the pet sector? Will this result in animals being defined as something other than ‘things’? In Norwegian law until today, animals are to be considered ‘things’ in the legal sense. As the rapporteur on the matter, I have sent a question to the Council of State Lars Peder Breck about this. He writes the following: ‘It will not have any animal welfare implications to include the concept of self-esteem in the legislative text. As mentioned above, the concept will only have a symbolic value and not contribute in itself to better animal welfare.» There are many operators who are concerned with animal protection, who have stated during the hearing that they hope that addressing the concept of ‘self-value’ will improve the legal position of animals. When the Council of State writes as he did in the letter to the Committee of 10 February, it is clear that he somehow throws blues in the eyes of those who had hoped this would contribute to a better legal position. As the rapporteur on the matter, I cannot agree to include a term in a legal text when it is unclear what legal consequences it will have for animals or for those who will keep animals, even if we all agree that we should keep the animal protection tab high, and we should give animals a high degree of value. The question is, how far does this term go? The law also provides for a relief clause to assist the person in the event of animals in need of assistance, to assist the animal or to notify it without delay. It's also a clause on an alert. There has also been a debate on this issue with the expertise of animal owners, and we have had a debate this winter about demanding farmers who have good experience in keeping animals, and also people who have agronomism education, that they should be given additional training in animal husbandry. In this context, the Committee calls for adequate training in relation to agronomism education. But the majority say that you should also be able to require a different type of course. There has been a debate on labelling. The Committee wishes to establish a mandatory labelling for cats and dogs. To predators: the original text included a proposal that the animal owner is obliged to protect his cattle against predators. This has been removed during treatment, and it is positive. When the Food Authority imposes grazing on farmers who are totally dependent on using their land, this gives an unsustainable condition in Building Norway. Then I did not get through everything I was going to say. In any case, the law will significantly strengthen animal protection in Norway, and I will address the proposals made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e232	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he made. I assume that it is the proposals No. 1–4, where the Progress Party is co-consulting with others. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e235	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e240	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a very tidy and good job of organising the committee's handling of the matter, and insofar as the thorough examination of the work on the matter he has just given here. Today, we are going to adopt a new animal welfare law that will facilitate Norway's future leadership in the field of animal welfare. I'd say it's very positive that there's a broad consensus on the main lines of this. There are so many fine parallel remarks in this case that there should actually have been tuned to them. In the law, we further strengthen the requirements for animal welfare, including: by focusing on the importance of good competence in animal owners. It is essential that animals be treated well and that they be killed in a proper manner when necessary. Fortunately, there has also been a very positive development in people's perception of this area in the years since the last animal protection law came in 1974. Good animal welfare is also a competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture. Whether it is cattle in the poultry or sheep on the pasture, it is essential that the animals thrive. It also makes production more profitable. As we write in the cancellation, the cost level here in the country is high, and Norwegian farmers can rarely compete at price. Norwegian agriculture shall be characterised by good animal welfare, which will be essential for both the quality of raw materials and the legitimacy of agriculture. In the government bill, recognition of animal self-value was a significant premise. Animals have value not only for us humans, but also for ourselves. Since the legal text did not explicitly appear, the majority of the committee found it appropriate to include it in the legislative text so that it could not be misunderstood. I do not wish to elaborate on it at this stage, but just refer to the letter of the Council of State mentioned by the rapporteur. From time to time we become familiar with animals where animals have been found dead or dying as a result of lack of feeding and care. It must be prevented as far as possible. Such issues are often composed of both health and social aspects, and it is therefore important to work together between, for example: health professionals and animal welfare authorities, so that the matter can be followed up promptly and in an appropriate manner. Health professionals are now given a right of warning about animal abuse, which is very good, and although they are bound by professional secrecy, there should not be any obstacle to multidisciplinary cooperation in order to ensure dialogue that can prevent the development of animals. There is also a general obligation to assist the person in the event of an injury or otherwise in need of assistance. Obligation of keepers to protect animals against, inter alia: predators are made clear in this law. There is no doubt that the predatory policy we have adopted here in Stortingen may in some cases require measures to prevent animals from being taken by predators. Food supervision is given by Section 30 of the Act to take decisions on grazing restrictions. Such restrictive restrictions also provide for the right to financial compensation for animal owners. In the case of conflicts between predators and grazing animals, the victim must not bear all the costs. It is important to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to compensate for any such interventional decision and that the conditions for triggering compensation are not changed after the amount of the allocation. This is something we have also explicitly fixed in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e255	In spring 2004, a broad majority in the United Kingdom agreed on predatory measures. The right has laid the groundwork for its policy. The aim of the agreement was to discharge Norway’s international obligations under the Berne Convention to have viable populations of the large predators, while at the same time preserving human living conditions and the potential to continue to have active off-road industries. The right believes that the robber agreement has given a lot of valuable insight. However, in view of the disadvantages caused by the settlement for the local population in the most predatory areas, we believe it is now time to evaluate the settlement. In this respect, I refer you to the Right-wing proposal, Document No. 8:127 for 2007-2008 on the evaluation of the predatory game settlement in order to improve consistency between the interests of the large society, community and individual individuals. The bill, as promoted by the Government, constitutes a serious interference with the ownership of the farmer. The right is therefore deeply concerned about the impact this will have on Norwegian predatory policies in the future. The use of pastures has very long traditions and is a natural and important part of the resource base for agriculture in many parts of Norway. Full grazing in the farmer's land area is a direct intervention in ownership. At the same time, it contributes to increasing the obligations of the farmer and increasing the predatory conflict. Therefore, the right considers that the rate of development of predatory game populations must take into account the time necessary for adaptations for grazing users and the community in general. This is necessary in order to provide a predictable framework for viable farming activities in areas of wild game. Measures to reduce predatory game hazards must be considered in cases where grazing may be relevant and grazing restrictions must be applied only where other measures do not provide adequate protection. The size has already decided to accommodate both domestic animals and predators in the areas where it has been decided that Norway should allow predators. In the opinion of the right-wing party, the in-depth decision on grazing restrictions with the lowering of animals or the prohibition of the dispatching of animals on grazing must give animal owners the right to full compensation, because grazing is a very intrusive proposal which may in practice lead to the abandonment of large parts of agriculture in predatory areas. The right strongly disagrees with the fact that the animal owner’s right to compensation shall be abdicated, which may mean that no full compensation shall be granted to the animal owners affected by the grazing requirement. The right therefore promotes the following proposal for full compensation for the costs incurred in grazing: «§ 31, first sentence: by decision on grazing restrictions due to predatory game pursuant to Section 30, the animal owner is entitled to full economic compensation.» The proposal is supported by the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but unfortunately for the farmers not by the Center Party and the rest of the Red-Greens. In point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 24, the Government states that keepers must ensure that animals are protected from predators and other hazards. Uncertainty has arisen as to whether this provision imposes a greater responsibility on the animal owner than under current law in order to protect its livestock against predators. In order to clarify that the responsibilities of the animal owner are not extended, the Right proposed to withdraw the word ‘crustaceans’ so that point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 24 is replaced by the following: ‘animals are protected against injury, disease, parasites and other hazards. Sick and injured animals must be properly treated and killed if necessary.» In the nation on 25 March we could read in an interview with committee leader Ola Borten Moe that the farmers won in the Stortinget, that however farmers should not be required to protect animals against predators in the same way as diseases and other hazards. 'We have simply removed the word predators,' said the Away Moe to the nation. The right is pleased that the farmers in an area emerged in the Storting by supporting the proposal of the Right to remove the word «crustaceans» in the proposal by a Joint Committee and the Government. At the same time, the Right is very disappointed that the Government will not provide full compensation for grazing due to predators. Food surveillance is currently open to grazing in predatory areas. There are relatively large conflicts associated with the Food Authority’s decision on grazing. The right considers that the authorisation of the Food Authority for grazing in predatory areas should not go beyond the applicable law. The right also considers that the establishment of a register could promote the disclosure of these cases and contribute to the mitigation of conflicts. Together with the Progress Party, the Right supports the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a central register of grazing cases due to predators.’ It's very worrying that it's only taken out at the bottom of half yours and the bear of what the cutting quota allows. This may mean that the farmers may experience a year or so to suffer great losses from grazing animals due to predators. I have asked the State Council of Solheim about the derogation for the extended season for the withdrawal of yews in Central Norway. Unfortunately, the answer was no. I have also registered that more people from the Senterpartiet, both in Stortinget and in the government offices, have stated to the media that it is desirable to have larger outlets. When State Council Solheim also rejects the demands for expanded felling from Norway's Bond team, yes, then I have a great understanding that the Senterpartie must feel a certain frustration. They have also had to swallow the fact that farmers will not be fully compensated when the Food Authority imposes grazing on predators. Right is satisfied that «crustaceans» are not now mentioned separately in Section 24 of the Act. The wording of the law – as proposed in Ot.prp. No 15 for 2008-2009 – open to animal owners to take on the burden of purely nature conservation, which is contrary to the predatory and Norwegian policies in this area. As long as it states that the animal owner is to protect its animals against «other hazards», it will also include predators, so that the animal owner will be obliged to protect his animals from predators where necessary for the purpose of animal protection. The government had also taken out the wording of the consultation proposal that animals have self-valued regardless of their value for human beings. The right considers that the concept of self-esteem implies that animals are to be treated well and with respect. The right suggested that the wording on self-esteem was re-introduced into the legal text, and I just want to answer the case rapporteur that I believe that in fact it can affect our attitudes in terms of positive thinking about animals and animal welfare. Paragraph 3 as a whole will now read as follows: ‘Animals have intrinsic value regardless of their human benefit. Animals must be treated well and protected against unnecessary stresses and loads.» The right is pleased that the Government resumed the proposal and that it is now supported by the majority other than the Progress Party. Many volunteers spend considerable work and financial resources caring for lost and helpless animals. In the right, it is appropriate to investigate the introduction of a compensation scheme for persons and organisations doing such important and socially useful work. Together with the Progress Party and the Left, we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of introducing a compensation scheme for persons or organisations voluntarily caring for lost and helpless animals.’ With regard to the warning and labelling of animals, the Right supports the introduction of a general obligation to alert the Food Safety Authority or the police where animals suffer. It is also important to stress the importance of equipping supervisory authorities to deal with their responsibilities. The right also supports the proposal to investigate a labelling scheme for cats and dogs. However, the right considers that one in an investigation process should take into account that the problem of lion’s taxes is not the same across the country. One solution may be that municipalities which are particularly vulnerable to leopards and unidentified dogs should be able to obtain an authorisation to draw up a municipal regulation that allows cat and dog owners to be required to label cats and dogs. Despite the fact that many in Norwegian society have good competence in keeping animals, the Right considers it right to impose good qualifications for keeping animals in agriculture. We believe that agronomism training must be sufficient, while taking into account real competence when defining the details of the skills requirements. The right would also clarify that this should be a personal responsibility for each animal owner and that there should be no bureaucratic and animal owners’ claims. The right-wing opinion is that it is right to legislate animal protection subjects as part of the Food Safety Authority, as it will provide a better and more comprehensive control apparatus. It is necessary to provide for a liberal budgetary framework for animal welfare students so that frequent inspections can be carried out. Together with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right promotes the following proposals: ‘Article 30, second paragraph, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e343	Then Odelstinget cancels his meeting. The meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e374	Still away from this pulpit, several of us have pointed out that Norway is the world's best country to live in. Then we're thinking mainly of the world's best country to live in for people. Today we treat the animals' woe and well, and I think it is important to have an ambition that Norway should be the world's best country to live in, too, for animals. That's why it's good that we've emphasized this with animal self-value. Animals are absolutely useful to us, whether it is guide dogs, horses or domestic animals used for food production. But it's obvious that animals also have a self-esteem, so we're glad that once again you've pointed it out so clearly from Stortinget. We must constantly have an ambition that animals should have it optimally from the time they are born, until they are killed. We must strive for that all the time. I mean the law that we are dealing with today, absolutely is a step in the right direction. We are not quite in the target, there are still areas where we need to work on improvement, and where there is also political disagreement about how to improve things – speaking of this with fur nutrition. But this is definitely a step in the right direction to get relationships for the animals that are as good as possible. Many have asked whether there is a difference between having optimal animal welfare and having an effective food production. I believe that in the competition for future customers, one of the things that is noticed is whether you can prove that you have good animal welfare. Of course, customers are concerned that you should have safe food, be sure that you do not get sick from what you put in your mouth. But I think the customers are also concerned that the animals from which you buy products have had it as well as possible in the time they were domestic, and that you can feel that nothing unreasonable has happened. Another area that was discussed in the Committee was the social needs of animals. I think animals definitely have social needs. The one who's had expensive sails – and that's probably most of us, for myself I've had dogs at least, and some others, less pets – know that the animals have social needs. I don't think we should underestimate it. It is important that animals should also be allowed to associate with other animals and that animals should be able to associate with humans, so that they have a life that is as good as possible. For example, in the committee we have discussed this with a horse: Should a horse be able to stand alone on the booth day after day? No, it's not natural for a horse to stand on the booth day after day. The horse must be with other horses or with other, equivalent, animals, so that it can experience that, for example: a social need is satisfied. For dogs, we see that it's the same thing. It is completely unnatural for a dog that it is not with dogs, other animals or humans. That's why I'm very happy that this with social needs is underlined. Animals should feel good, like us humans. Norway should be the world's best country to live in both for animals and for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e392	Norway is a world-leaving country for animal welfare. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the new law will help to secure this even in the future. At the same time, it must be decisive to balance the requirement of strict animal protection legislation and the concerns of those who are to own the animals, especially in agriculture. The proposed legislation is, to a large extent, a framework law. The government should not make significant restrictions or liberalisations in animal welfare through regulations without the Storting hearing. There is no need to impose greater costs without the animal owners being given time to change, and hearing periods must be set which allow sufficient time to express themselves and to convert. While good and strict animal protection is important, it must not be strict enough to prevent normal animal behaviour. The Christian People's Party, having thought thoroughly through the matter, has concluded that we are positive that a marking system for cats and dogs should be established, but I have argued that here it is used white – or should we say healthy peasant white – so that a repeat is that the problem of laureates is not as great throughout the country. Many in Norwegian society have good competence in animal husbandry. Approved agronomism challenge must, for example: adequate competence for farm animal husbandry. Real competences must also be taken into account when defining the closer design of competence requirements. The size has agreed that there should be room for both domestic animals and predators within the areas where it is agreed that Norway should allow predators. The Christian People's Party strongly disagrees with the fact that the animal owner's right to compensation should be granted. This may mean that no full replacement has been made for the animal owners who are under grazing conditions. This is an unacceptable intervention against the farmer's right of ownership. The Christian People's Party is also deeply concerned about the impact this will have on Norwegian predatory policy in the future. For this reason, the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposal that animal owners have the right to full economic compensation by decision on grazing restrictions due to predatory game according to Section 30. The imposition of grazing will create major challenges for farmers in livestock farming, especially sheep. Robbery policies are already causing great frustration in many rural communities that depend entirely on farming. If domestic animals have to graze on land because of predators much of the summer semester, this will not be viable for the individual farmer, both because of the garden's use of resources and because of the absence of grazing in the same area at all times. Not least with full-time technicians, they may be problematic in that context. Precautions must not be given to predators over domestic animals and processed property rights. In those cases where predators are harmful, these predators must be removed, and the management of predator strains in these areas must be done by local management. In this way, damage can be averted quickly, and local populations will be more understanding of predatory policies. First of all, the Christian People's Party strongly believes that the Food Authority should not use its authority to impose grazing on predatory areas. But secondaryly, however, I had almost said, should be so wrong that it was to be given such a power, the consequence must be that a get full economic compensation at grazing. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e411	The phrase "you should treat the animal well" is something that is printed from the growth of some of us, mediated by grandparents and parents. The respect for all the living and the intrinsic value of animals is nothing new, but it's right to say that there's something that has come more into focus through laws and regulations in later times. Philosophy is simple, and it is also the theme of today's debate. Good animal welfare is fundamental to both animal production and pet production. It is important that animal husbandry requirements are kept up-to-date as they come to both new research and knowledge and the development of new technical solutions. The ethical measures of how to treat animals have had significant development, and we have seen high standards of animal welfare. It was therefore important and right to review and renew animal protection legislation. Norway shall be at the forefront of animal welfare, as well as requirements for both lawmaking and enforcement. The bill takes over the animal's status and their dishes and builds on the notion that animals have a self-esteem. The law also sets important premises for us to interpret the rules in the future in relation to the current ethical standards for animal husbandry. Animal welfare law is also a good example in the international context of the protection of animal interests. Contact with animals is important for many people. The animals often bring out the best in us, we show care, we take responsibility and get many more doubles again. People of all ages enjoy being together with animals – we see it growing up, in adult life and as a positive stimulus in green care for the elderly and for the demented. Animal production represents important value creation in Norway, not least for the districts. Good animal welfare is a decisive premise for trust in Norwegian food production. Favorable animals also provide better results and good quality of the raw materials. New law on animal welfare has created great commitment and through this has given positive attention to the animal's living conditions. The individual recordings have contributed to the fact that the legislative proposal and the committee's management of it have produced an even better result than would otherwise have been the case. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that the new Animal Welfare Act does not alter the current legal situation in relation to the animal owner’s responsibilities in the event of predatory attacks. In order to underline this intention, in its handling of the legislative proposal, the Committee has removed the word ‘roar animals’ from Section 24. However, this does not mean that animal owners are exempt from liability for their animals in relation to predators. In the event of an acute risk of predatory attack, animal owners shall continue to do what is necessary to prevent loss. By law, the Food Authority may now decide on temporary grazing restrictions. The centre party considers gravitational to be a very interventional measure and suggests that it should only be used when other measures are not sufficient. Good interaction between animal welfare management and predatory game management needs to be considered, and other measures to reduce predatory wildlife need to be considered. The legislative proposal gives animal owners the right to compensation by decision on grazing restrictions. The centre party sees this as a substantial strengthening of the animal owners' rights and expects that enough means will be put in place for deliberations. The conditions for triggering compensation must not be changed in relation to the size of the total grant and must continue to be based on the principle stated in the Rendals judgment of the Supreme Court that ‘individuals shall not bear the costs of damage suffered or of measures to prevent damage’. The central party argues that the predatory game policy as it is formulated in St.meld. No 15 for 2003–04, the breeding game agreement, shall not be amended in the light of animal welfare laws. Therefore, the destinations dealing with predatory game are clarified in the Committee's management, so that there is no doubt that neither predatory game policy nor the current legal situation has changed. Finally, the law establishes that agronomism training is and must be a good and adequate basis of competence for animal production. At the same time, livestock producers are encouraged to continue to update their expertise on a voluntary basis, as most farmers already do. The centre party believes that increasing the focus on competence is one-sided positive for the industry, both for the individual farmer and for agriculture its legitimacy. Nevertheless, approved vocational training must be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the administrative authorities. For livestock producers born before 1980, no formal competence requirements could be imposed. Those born after 1980 shall have documented competence in the form of either agronomic training or animal husbandry training. Of course, the centre party will support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e441	Good animal welfare is a measure of our cultural development. The left believes that animals have a self-esteem and are to be treated with respect. Therefore, the Left is pleased that the bill clarifies that animals are self-valued, regardless of their usefulness. The proposition we are discussing today is based on the target in St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, on animal husbandry and welfare. The left is largely satisfied with the new animal welfare law, but in some areas we disagree. The left is disappointed that the Government of Agriculture decided for 2008 suspended the requirement for leaching for 10 years, when it did so in St.meld. No 12 shows the requirement for all dairy cows to operate freely from 1 January 2024. The left is aware that there is a cost of embarking on a lay-off operation, but Norway must be in a position to produce a unique product of good quality, to have a good animal welfare and to claim itself in the foreign market, it is this member's opinion that the earlier a lay-off operation, the better. The left will point out that of course practical solutions need to be taken into account in the phase-in process. I would like to refer to proposals made by the Left in the 2008 agricultural policy setting, where the Left asked the Government to introduce free movement for all dairy cows from 1 January 2024. Another area The left is busy, the many volunteers who spend a considerable amount of work and economic resources caring for lost and lost animals. To this end, the Left, together with the Right and the Progress Party, proposes that the possibility of introducing a compensation scheme for persons or organisations voluntarily dealing with lost and debilitated animals should be clarified. When it comes to helpless animals, cats and dogs are overrepresented. The left is in favour of a labelling scheme for cats and dogs. In the process of distribution, a height should be taken to ensure that the problem of laureates is not equally high across the country. Therefore, the left believes that a solution may be that municipalities that are plagued by laureates and unidentified dogs will be able to obtain an opportunity to develop a municipal regulation that allows cats and dog owners to be labeled on cats and dogs. In paragraph 24, first paragraph, point (b), the government stated that keepers of animals must ensure that animals are protected against predators and other hazards. When uncertainty arose as to the extent to which this destination imposes a greater responsibility on the animal owner than under the current law to protect its livestock against predators, a choice has been made to pass on the current legal status. In spite of this change, the government chose to indicate a permit for the Food Authority to decide on grazing restrictions in order to protect livestock against predatory game in Section 24. This supports the Left and believes that it will strengthen animal welfare. The left believes that the Food Authority's home to decide on grazing restrictions in order to protect livestock against predatory game must be used with discretion, and especially in relation to the reindeer industry, as collecting together clean and finding a separate place for temporary grazing can in many cases be problematic. With the extended authorisation of the Food Authority to close grazing areas due to predatory hazards, animal owners shall be entitled to compensation. The problem with this compensation is that he should be permission controlled. The left, together with the rest of the opposition, therefore suggests that animal owners have the right to full economic compensation by decision on grazing restrictions based on Section 30, as it is crucial that predatory policies become more resolution-oriented. A right-based requirement for full compensation is central to that context. To the extent that predators and animal husbandry, sheep and reindeer, do not fail, Norway’s obligations to sustain viable predatory wildlife strains must be maintained, combined with economic compensation for economic operators who reduce their ability to live on their own territory. Finally, others put forward the proposals that are on the left – and that is what the Left proposals will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e460	The way we treat our animals says something about the ethical standard in society. In the new Animal Welfare Act, the Government has clarified the legal framework for this important field. I will commend the Committee on the effort and commitment they have put into the work of the law. Animal welfare means too many – it shows not least the many recordings that have come along the way in the work on the law. I am pleased with the broad political consensus on the importance of treating animals well and with respect, and that there is agreement on the need for a new law. Through the treatment of the animal welfare message, St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, on animal husbandry and welfare, the Stortinget set out the objectives and framework for the work of a new animal welfare law. With this bill, the Government follows up and shows that we want to strengthen animal welfare in Norway. We now get a law that provides more general, general principles of good animal welfare and people's dealings with animals. The detailed regulation on the keeping and treatment of the different animal species will continue to be regulated. The regulations must follow the principles of the law. I think this is an appropriate procedure. Since the animal welfare message came five years ago, much of the regulation has already been updated and improved. In cooperation with the Food Authority, we are constantly working to have regulations that provide good animal welfare. I note that the Committee considers it appropriate to regulate the animal welfare aspects of hunting, fishing and fishing activities in the respective specific laws referred to here. The principles of the Animal Welfare Act also include wild animals and will lead to more detailed regulation in sectoral legislation. It is therefore important, in order to ensure a predictable and consistent regulatory framework for users, that the various sectoral authorities cooperate on the regulatory framework. The self-esteem of animals, regardless of their usefulness to humans, is a central starting point and a basic premise for the law. For legal reasons, this was not proposed in the legal text itself. I understand that there has been a great deal of commitment around this wording during committee reading. That it is now included in the legal text, I consider it unproblematic. There will be no difference in reality because it is a fundamental premise for the whole law that animals have self-value, and I believe that the majority of the committee agrees with that. A key objective of lawmaking has been to facilitate the prevention of animal suffering. Oversight and care failures cause all too often suffering to animals, and the supervisory authority will often not be able to detect the development of such cases at an early stage. I am therefore very pleased that a joint committee supports the introduction of a general obligation to notify cases where animals are suspected of suffering. In this way, the owner can be helped at an early stage and prevent animals from suffering. The obligation to notify is an important innovation in the law, and I imagine that it will be an important contribution to the work to prevent animal tragedy. I am also pleased that a joint committee supports the House in setting requirements for products derived from animals. Furthermore, it is new that the law explicitly requires that keepers be competent. Competence is an important prerequisite for the optimum quality of life for animals. There has been a fresh discussion of competence requirements in the context of the entry into force of regulations requiring approved training for, inter alia: bovine animals. These regulations will now be reviewed. In this context, I note, and agree, the comments of the majority, both in relation to who will have formal competence, and what education needs to be considered sufficient. The text clarifies the animal owner’s obligation to protect animals from hazards. This also includes an obligation to protect animals from predatory attacks and is a continuation of the current legal status. New is the simultaneous introduction of a legal right to financial compensation from the State when decisions are taken on the prohibition of grazing due to the risk of predatory wild game. I notice that the committee has chosen to take the term “crustaceans” out of the legal text of Section 24 Supervision and care. The Committee’s reasoning is that this makes it clear that the responsibility of the animal owner for the grazing animals in relation to predators is not extended and that the current legal situation, as expressed in the Supreme Court’s ruling in the Rendals judgment, is maintained. It has not been the intention of the Government to extend the responsibility of the animal owner by including the word ‘roar’ in the text. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee when they conclude that the animal owner, who is currently responsible for protecting his animals in relation to predators, is responsible for the concept of ‘other hazards’. The applicable law also states that the immersion from grazing due to predatory hazards lies within the duties of the animal owner. This also means that the owner of the animal may be subject to a time-limited application for immersion from grazing due to predatory hazards. When all other measures do not provide adequate protection against predators, there may be cases where the Food Authority or the authorities may impose a ban on off-farm deposition. These measures are very intrusive, and it is important that a right of compensation is now established in such cases. My main goal for animal welfare is that all animals should feel good. The adoption of the new Animal Welfare Act by size is an important step in the process of further improving animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e495	The councils were in charge of this with compensation for the farmers who were asked to graze. The law presupposes that this should be a budget-driven scheme. Can the Council of State here and now confirm that the farmers charged with grazing receive full compensation — yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e500	I agree that provision for compensation should not be limited as to whether the animal owner receives the compensation he or she is entitled to receive under regulations that regulate it. This will then be solved easily by devoting sufficient funds to the budget. However, in the absence of sufficient resources, it would be the responsibility of the State to fulfil its obligations under the regulation. In contrast, the government has tripled the Ministry of the Environment’s budget for prevention and conflict mitigation measures, so I believe that there is a good basis for the very rare use of this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e505	In Trønder-Avisa on 25 March, the Senterparti proposes «Powerful predator reduction». In the same article, the Workers' Party and SV respond that they reject increased withdrawals. In the United Nations on 2 April, the Council of State of Solheim also says that it is not a matter of «quota filling after your act». We know that more people from the Central Party, both here in Stortinget and also the State Secretary, have been out saying that it is desirable to fill in the quota when it comes to the fall-down of yours. Is the Council comfortable with the fact that the farmers are now most likely not to receive full prey, and that this should be abdicated – which is rather uncertain? And does the Council of State think it's right that it should be at the expense of the farmers that you haven't been able to take out enough predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e513	To the representative of Røbekk Nørve, I would just like to stress the same thing as I said in my previous reply to the representative of Kielland Asmyhr: it is necessary to make adequate appropriations, so that a person gets real compensation. With regard to the issue of predatory pressure this year and the discussions that have taken place in the relevant newspapers, the Tronder-Avisa and the Nations, I would just like to point out that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. I have given clear signals to the Minister for the Environment on how to continue our efforts to reduce predatory pressure on grazing livestock both in the case of pure and sheep. It can be done, among other things: that one should withdraw until the stock target given by the hunting operation. You are now a member of the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e520	Yes, the previous two lines have dealt with this with grazing and replacement. I want to be in the same area, but with a slightly different approach. I believe in both the Storting and the Government's intention of full compensation for pasturage, but with other compensation arrangements it turns out that there are some changes going on in the way to those debts, and then this compensation is basically not as he should have been. So I want to angle it a little bit differently – because this is a law of authority with a very good authority for the Food Authority. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that the authority given in the first paragraph of Section 30 should also be used too lightly for grazing. We actually wanted that grazing was not included in this law on powers, that it was so high that there were other ways to angle it. Does the Council see these issues, and does he intend to address them in a way to reduce the potential of the Food Authority to introduce grazing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e529	Yes, I see that these are difficult balances. I see that there are challenges for both food supervision and animal owners in situations that arise if there is a severe severe predatory pressure on grazing livestock. But first of all, I would like to stress that there is no change in the law when we state again that animal welfare is the responsibility of animal welfare even in predatory areas. So we're following up the legal state according to the Supreme Court in the Rendals judgment. With regard to the intervention of the Food Safety Authority — where appropriate, in such a situation as to become necessary — there are clear, heavy requirements for the Food Safety Authority to document the challenges before taking such action and taking decisions. Then there is compensation that is followed by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e536	I want to angle this to another problem. As I said in the post, we are in the left drawer that the government is now suspending the requirement of drifting. During the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003 it became clear that the Progress Party and the Centre had comments that they wanted to postpone this conversion – not until 2024, but ten years later, simply until 2034. What I want to ask the Council of State applies to this time. Because in a market where a person talks about animal welfare and has to market his products, the Council of State did not think it would be long to wait until 2024 – is there only 15 more years? How long has the government planned to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e545	I want to stress that I don't think there's any difference between the animal welfare of a common looting poultry versus the animal welfare of a regular cage poultry, to take that as a starting point. I think the farmers and farmers who run in these poultry are at all very concerned with animal welfare. So it's possible to have good animal welfare in the booths. With regard to the decision to change the last deadline for the introduction of unbundling, I believe it makes sense, in relation to a balance between economic and animal welfare, and not least to the possibilities of Norwegian farmers to make the necessary investments. Substantial funds are allocated to investments in agriculture, but we see that it has always been too small in relation to the need. Here I believe we have found a good adjustment to the balance between animal needs and the agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e552	At the hearing of the Committee, it was given the impression that the Government has worked on proposals to introduce a so-called competence requirement for sport fishermen. Many questions have been asked whether it is appropriate in a country such as Norway. The Council of State has answered the following questions from the Committee: ‘The government has no concrete plans to introduce a requirement of formal competence for sport fishermen equivalent to the hunting test for hunters’.» Can the Council of State confirm that such a proposal is totally out of date during its Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e562	I just have to stress that I am a very eager sports fisherman myself, and I am concerned that it is facilitated for young people and the elderly to have the opportunity to fish sports. It's an important recreation. I do not know any work to make such demands on sports fishermen, nor do I intend to impose such claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e570	Let me start by saying that I am happy that a unanimous committee today says that this law does not invite a ban on capture and release – ‘catch and release’ is well known as. This has a large proportion of the nutritionists in this industry, for example: in my home state, the South Tribute, and also in the home state of the Council of State, the North Trøndelag, feared. I'm glad the nutrition committee is coming up with this clarification. It is very important for business in large parts of the river valleys, among others. in Trøndelag. But I'm not taking part in the business committee's debate to say that I agree with the majority of the business committee. I note that every time I and others from the Progress Party – as far as the social debate in general – invite to a discussion on Norwegian predatory policy, the Senterpartiet shows, and to the extent that the Workers' Party, immediately until the predatory settlement is settled, the Soria Moria Declaration, etc. But as I see it, today there is one party that is at least trying to relate to the predatory settlement. The progress party has never done so and has never intended to do so – at least not as long as I can influence the matter. But the only party today, as I can see, which is on the predatory agreement, is the Christian People's Party. As I can see it, today's law violates the predatory settlement on three points. In my opinion, grazing is not mentioned in the agreement on predators, but the way it is designed, and with such powers the food supervision in this case is strongly undermining – in large parts of the country – the two-sided objective of coexistence between predators and grazing animals. We know that in large parts of the country, especially along the Swedish border, there is growth in populations. Some say that the populations of other parts of the country are out of control, but there will be considerably more predators along the Swedish border, especially in the North-Trundelag, in the South-Trundelag and in Hedmark. Then this two-sided objective is going to be impossible, as long as you assign a very strict rule of law, as you do in this case. Then both speakers from the Central Party talk about the measures you've taken. But most of the money for the Ministry of Environment goes to fences. Then the sheep is introduced from areas to which it should have access according to the predatory agreement, based on the two-sided objective of coexistence between predators and grazing animals. So the measures themselves are a violation of the predatory settlement. It is then that responsibility for Norwegian predatory policy is transferred from the authority responsible, the Ministry of the Environment, to the department that should not be responsible for Norwegian predatory policy, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Then I believe that the principle of harmlessness is also undermined by the practice of grazing animals. But to that the Central Party corresponds that the legal status is unchanged. Firstly, there is considerable disagreement as to whether the legal status is unchanged in the legal disciplines working on this. But the fact that it's unchanged doesn't mean that it's necessarily good. It would be thought that when you have a central party council and you have to make a new animal welfare law – which is what I understand you are doing – it should not be satisfactory in itself that the law is unchanged, when it was initially not good enough. I have faith that the Council of State Lars Peder Breck will do what he can to ensure that as long as he is the Council of State, there may be enough money to keep these practitioners harmless. But what you say no to today is to secure these practitioners this right through a law of law. So it's going to be the center part with open eyes to go in for. So I think that with these three relationships, if you keep it together with the Osdals that breed and feed far beyond the administration area, and that the government has put in a new emergency paragraph without making the changes that were promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, there should be opportunities to talk to the Center Party and the Government about other things and other changes in predatory policy, for example. reduced stocking targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e589	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e592	I will not express any disagreement with the setting that exists. It seems that the committee has done a good and thorough job. Several have highlighted the need to ensure animal welfare, that animals have their own value in themselves. That's good to hear. I think that many with me react very strongly when we see pictures in the newspapers or on television where animals suffer, for example. by the loss of a cattle on the stand because the farmer has been ill or otherwise has decapitated his animals. I also see that there are penalties attached to what can be detected as a fault or guilt. What I'm reacting to at the same time is that while you consider a farmer to be reasonably responsible for the number of animals he has on the booth – you can't have more animals than what you're capable of shooting – we see that in Finnmark, when it comes to reindeer farming, you've always accepted from the government that there are far more animals than there are grazing grounds for. Finnland’s population is constantly seeing extensive animal tragedy related to reindeer management, with no legal consequences whatsoever. The paradox is that the state is involved in calving-related grant schemes and is indemnified in the event of loss. If you take the loss figures from the industry seriously, you only report a loss of 50,000 animals per year in Finnmark. What you get replaced is a much lower number. But it's totally accepted in that industry that you say that between half and one third of all the animals you're assigned to manage and have a responsibility for disappear in a single year, and the state does not respond to it in any other way than replacing parts of the loss. So there is no use of any form of criminal law method, nor does it reduce subsidies, nor does it in any other way make it clear that this is an animal husbandry that cannot be defended over time. I must say that it appears to be a great paradox. I myself have had two interviews about the reindeer and received quite a similar response from the Minister of Industry, at intervals of years. I'm going in this spring session to have a third interpellation on the same topic, simply because it hasn't changed significantly at all over the twelve years that I've been sitting on the Stortinget. I would like to ask the Minister for Industry the following question: What is the reason for considering reindeer farming in such a different way from other livestock farms that, in individual cases, or at least marginally, the individual who has too many animals is not responsible for what is the basis for grazing? What could be the reason why the state also has grants to support that kind of default over time, rather than using tools to reduce the purity to the level that is sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e609	Let me first say that the Progress Party fully supports the views just put forward by the representative, Mr Ballo, on the situation in the reindeer industry. It's a totally unacceptable situation. This is something the Progress Party also points out every year in comments on the reindeer management. After all, the government distinguishes between animal welfare for wild animals and animal welfare for domestic animals. You have to tell a farmer who has his cattle out in predatory areas to take his animals down from pasture when there is a great predatory danger. But nothing has been written about animal welfare for wild animals – deer, elk, reindeer – that are also exposed to the same damage. It's a paradox. The second thing we can draw from this debate is that the Central Party has now completely capitulated in predatory policy. It has become very clear during this debate. The fact that the Senter Party is at all going in order to impose grazing property shows that you have accepted that you should have the predator stock that we now have, and probably larger. It has been agreed to take out the word «crustaceans» in Section 24. But what does it mean when you say it shouldn't matter? That's what you're saying, as the representative Tord Lien correctly pointed out. The Council of State cannot respond specifically to whether or not to provide full compensation. He leaves that question to the Ministry of the Environment. And then we know what the priorities are. After all, the interests of business professionals are not put in high ground in an anti-business department such as the Ministry of Environment. The issue of the legalisation of animal protection subjects is an important issue. I think it's a right way to go. But we are getting a significant number of requests that animal protection students need a higher level of competence, and a minority, consisting of the opposition parties, have gone in order for the animal protection subjects to be represented both with the competence of a layman and with veterinary competence. I think it is important that we have veterinary competence in animal protection subjects, so that professional interests are safeguarded during inspections, among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e622	The representative Tord Lien reminds us of the robberies deal. It's true that the Progress Party in the Center Party team was opposed to the Robbery Agreement, but in contrast to the Progress Party, in the Center Party we have taken on board that there is a solid multiplicity for the settlement, both in the Storting and in the Government. And through our government cooperation, we have been given the impetus for important action that, in our view, is leading the predatory game policy in the right direction. So to the Right, for the representative Røbekk Nørve also goes in his intervention to attack the Center Party and refers to a Document No. Eight proposals from the Right that were dealt with here in this room. The only thing left of that debate, which was quite clear and clear after several of the Right's representatives had spoken, was that the Right was not willing to change the perpetrators of the robbery policy. One will have an evaluation, but one is not willing to make changes to the file number if the evaluation shows that the load resulting from predatory game is too large in some areas. It's going to be throwing blues in the eye of people living in predatory areas. It is also worth reminding the representative Røbekk Nørve that at the time of the robberies deal, Right would have significantly more predators than what was achieved after the treatment here in Stortinget. Then it would have been up to the Right Party, we would have had more predators, maybe up to 50 more bears, and it would have been an even greater burden for those who both live and feed in predatory areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e629	There have been some recordings that I would like to answer in the closing part of the debate. With regard to the posts of the representative Tord Lien, I completely disagree with the fact that the powers of the Food Safety Authority now undermine the two-part objectives that one has in relation to the relationship between predators and grazing animals. The extended regulation that has been discussed is also not a problem. The starting point is that the Food Authority has a right and an obligation to consider grazing if there are serious violations of animal welfare. It is a serious matter, which they have to address and have the right to do now and forward, as they have also had in the past. So here's no change in the law. In a sense, the Rendals judgment premises how to interpret it. One has also received the compensation scheme that someone here criticises. There is a new compensation scheme, which no one has previously put in place. That's what this government has put in. As for the representative of Ballos, I would like to stress that I think that Ballos' posts are somewhat unhealthy, in the sense that there has actually been some progress in this situation lately, after we got a new reindeer law. It is such that, through the use of instruments in the reindeer management agreement and through the framework to which the reindeer plant in Finnmark is subject, it has a responsibility to reduce to a sustainable stock in the various areas. And it's actually happened in some areas, but not in all. So we're trying through the tools we now have through the reindeer agreement, to get to a development that's positive and in the direction that the representative Ballo points out. Then finally to the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. With regard to the question of compensation, which Asmyhr says I have escaped or not taken responsibility for, I would just like to stress that the compensation law is not laid down in the Ministry of the Environment. It shall be laid down in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. So that's what I'm going to take full responsibility for when we develop it. What I was talking about in my post was, of course, the fact, that it is the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible for determining whether predators are to be taken out or not. I can't go into that. Moreover, I believe that the animal welfare law that is now being passed provides a good framework for further work in this area to ensure animal welfare both for wild and domestic animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e642	It was not to be avoided: it was tempting to respond to the challenge of the Right's willingness to reduce the number of predators. We want a review of the law as it is today, and to evaluate it. We have also not gone into the media country and the beach around and said that we want to reduce, as the Center Party has done. And we're not in government today, either, and we have the opportunity to do important things, like the Center Party has the opportunity to do, but that's just saying it in the media rather than doing it. It's something completely different. There's a desperate situation for the farmers today, when they're going to meet the future without knowing if they're getting a refund on losses due to predators, precisely because the Center Party is not doing the job they're going to be in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 467]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e662	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e669	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 7 June 1996 No. 31 on the Norwegian Church, Section 24 new eighth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The Church Meeting may provide rules on trials whereby the Church Meeting and the Councils of Bishops shall be chosen and composed in a manner different from that resulting from Sections 23 and 24.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e705	The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have notified that they subsidiaryly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e714	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e723	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e730	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 4, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Advancement Party and Right
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e1310	The first paragraph of Section 3 of Chapter I and Section 30 of Chapter III shall be rejected. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e1321	The President will now alternatively vote between Chapter III, Section 30, second paragraph, first sentence, and Section 31, first sentence, and Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e1344	The remainder of Chapters I and III and Chapters II and IV shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e1353	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e1362	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27-lower.ana.ud8e1508	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
