ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e104	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen has now taken his seat. The representative Vera Lightcloth, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The former deputy representative of the South Trondelag County, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative of Åslaug Haga from 23 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kari Mette Prestrud, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e125	Kari Mette Prestrud is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e131	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e141	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e144	On behalf of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Jan Tore Sanner, Olemic Thommessen, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals for adaptations to the law on motor travel in the field that help to strengthen local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e149	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e163	Humanitarian aid is about preventing and alleviating world distress, in particular as a result of natural disasters and conflicts. Norway is a major contributor, and in 2008 the allocation was DKK 2.6 billion. In recent years, appropriations have been increasing both in Norway and in other countries, and we hope that the economic downturn will not change this. There is no reason to believe that the need and the needs will diminish. That being said, it is also important that we are committed to the effective use of aid resources, so that it achieves the best possible and best possible results. It is positive that the Riksrevision has carried out this study, which looks precisely at the effectiveness of Norwegian humanitarian aid. The extent to which the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs contributes to effective assistance and the extent to which humanitarian aid is rapid, effective and of good quality has been assessed. In this context, it is important to highlight how appropriations are managed and to assess areas where there is potential for improvement. In this way, the study can help those who need it to become even better and deliver even more positive results. The National Audit Office’s study shows both positive and negative features. It clearly shows that humanitarian aid contributes to positive results and impacts for a large number of people. One thus achieves to a great extent what is most important in humanitarian aid, namely saving lives, relieving suffering and maintaining human dignity in and after humanitarian crises. It is also positive to note that Norway is considered by various humanitarian actors to be a good humanitarian giver compared to other countries. Norway is also recognised internationally for its commitment to humanitarian principles, mine and class ammunition, civil-military coordination and gender mainstreaming. On the other hand, the National Audit Office identifies a number of weaknesses in the management of humanitarian aid funds, which they believe weaken the achievement of the objective of rapid and effective quality assistance. It points to weaknesses in funding, coordination, involvement of local actors, long-term care and the quality assurance of the department in the allocation and follow-up of assistance. At the same time, there are weaknesses in grant applications, including: in the case of risk factors and activities in relation to the targets set. The study also shows that few evaluations of supported organisations or projects have been carried out. The national audit therefore questions whether the various actors are provided with the necessary information on the achievement of the objectives and results of the efforts. When there is evidence of completed project visits only in 3.3 pst. of the projects, it is very small. The National Audit Office also questions whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs adequately facilitates a good transition from humanitarian crises to longer-term support. This is a problem that needs to be emphasised. It is important to see the link between emergency assistance, transitional assistance and longer-term support. The issue of one-year contracts is another issue raised by the National Audit Office. This is particularly the case in the case of longer-term and long-term humanitarian crises. One-year agreements create little predictability and reduce the flexibility of both Norwegian and international organisations for multi-year projects. An overall committee believes this is something the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to consider in greater detail and give the Storting a quick feedback on. Humanitarian aid is often provided in emergency situations. It goes without saying that there can be both time pressure and inconspicuous situations. At the same time, aid is channelled to some countries that may have poorly developed infrastructure and weak or missing institutions. When crises arise, there will also be a balance that needs to be made in terms of rationality and time aspect. These are elements that must be included both in the management’s handling of matters and in the evaluation process. In its comments on the report, the Ministry agreed with many of the Riksrevisions. In the autumn of 2008, an overall strategy for humanitarian aid was presented. The Audit Committee expects the Ministry to also address the other aspects of the report. This will include: clear signals in the report on lack of time and resources in the procedure. This shows the need for increased resources, not least at outdoor stations. To a large extent, an overall committee is behind the comments in the vote. However, I would point out that the Progress Party and the Right have submitted some own additional comments that I see more as a paraphrase on the same themes that the Committee collectively expresses or goes into, and not as an expression of a disagreement on any point. But there's something I'm assuming that in case these parties themselves will be able to explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e191	The rapporteur has gone through the Committee's position, which is largely unanimous in what the Riksrevision report focuses on. I just want to point out some things in addition. The study and opinion of the National Audit Office focuses on that part of Norwegian humanitarian aid related to specific projects or emergency situations. This is important enough, and we must constantly strive for money to be used to achieve the best possible results. That's what the study helps to do. The government presented its strategy for Norwegian humanitarian policy on 15 September last year, long after the study was completed. This is an answer to important aspects of the weaknesses of the National Audit Office. This applies, inter alia, to: the need for professionalisation and skills building among cooperation organisations and improved performance follow-up. This concerns the need for more strategic cooperation, more predictability and less project orientation. But our humanitarian aid is far more extensive, as the Government’s strategy for Norwegian humanitarian policy also shows. An active humanitarian aid must also be limited in prevention. Preventing global warming to such an extent that the ice in Greenland melts and seas rise, means an averting of a humanitarian crisis of a magnitude we can hardly imagine, much less repairing it if it should occur. Our active role in the ban on class ammunition is another example of humanitarian aid that is far more effective and better than repair in retrospect – much better for the thousands of children and adults who do not get hit by these devilish weapons. These examples also underline that while Norway can contribute significantly financially in many contexts, the main elements of humanitarian aid may depend entirely on international cooperation and the continuous strengthening of international law and law through institutions such as the United Nations and international agreements and conventions. As the Government underlines in St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, Interests, responsibilities and opportunities: The most important thing for us to be able to care for our interests, in a broad sense, is a best organised world based on international law and law. The Progress Party and the Right have a longer specific comment which, on the one hand, deepens some of the Committee's common comments on the Riksrevision study, but also extends the perspective to Norwegian aid in general. The politically interesting thing is that the Right sees the need to cooperate with the Progress Party in also using this opportunity to point out that aid efforts are not without weaknesses and to require an independent external evaluation of the overall Norwegian aid exposure and to express scepticism to the United Nations system. In its strategy for Norwegian humanitarian policy, the Government proposes that UN organisations continue to play an important role. It is announced that Norway will make significant and predictable contributions to the UN Emergency Aid Fund, humanitarian land funds and the UN humanitarian appeals, and contribute to the further development of the financial instruments. But we also need to be an active and critical partner of the UN organisations to enhance the effectiveness and capacity of the UN humanitarian response. It is a much more constructive policy than the unilateral scepticism of the Progress Party also expresses in this matter to the United Nations system. And it is disappointing that the Right chooses to use this case to stand with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e215	The National Audit Office's references to Norwegian humanitarian aid remind me of the song of Alf Prøysen, where it says: ‘You will get a day of rawness that is clean and unused, and then you will correct the bad error from yesterday.’ [[...]] In the song of the Alf Prøysen, the same reference is repeated until the song ebbs out. This is what it feels like to read the Riksrevision's points. After years of repeated criticism and constant assurances that there is no lack of willingness to establish better control procedures, it is natural to conclude that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have the ability to trace the results of Norwegian assistance. In such a scenario, it is natural to ask whether the Norwegian aid industry feels elevated above the control mechanisms applicable to all other uses of taxpayers’ money. Is it possible that some in this industry think that since the purpose and intentions are so good, most people will accept and understand that much of the help is not effective? The truth is that Norwegian aid policy has come into play, where the level of activity is higher than that of administrative resources. Then, like all other industries, this industry should focus on food and not bet on forgiveness afterwards. Unlike Sweden, it does not appear that Norway will need reforms to continue contributing to inefficient international aid organisations. However, Sweden intends to do something about this. «Money talk». However, no such requirement will be made from Norway. In the evening post on 10 March, Secretary of State Håkon Gulbrandsen is quoted as saying that Norway has no plans to withdraw from any of the multinational organisations we support. But the State Secretary says at the same time that he agrees that many of the organisations can become more effective. The natural question to ask is, after all, which organisations he is aiming for and how the Secretary of State believes the organisations can be streamlined. One thing is to observe, something quite different is to act. We are still told that our assistance gives great influence around the world. Then it's strange that we don't use this influence to reduce the inefficiency that we ourselves detect exists. Sweden chooses, as I said, a different approach. The Swedish have clear efficiency requirements. If the organisations do not have the means to deliver, the Swedes will withdraw. Sweden names five concrete inefficient and top-ranking organisations. These include the United Nations Global Environment Fund, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the United Nations Organisation for Urban Development and Housing, the United Nations Office on AIDS and the UN Women’s Fund. As the Swedish have come to such a conclusion, it is not entirely unnatural to assume that Norway will also conclude in the same way. The understanding of assistance and efficiency between Sweden and Norway should, of course, be consistent. The amazing thing is that in Norway’s contribution to the UN, there is never anything so critical that transfers are being reduced. One of the fundamental dilemmas, including: Norwegian assistance is that in many cases it contributes to corrupt regimes and that they cling to power. The more a head of state chooses to ignore its own citizens, the more need there will be for assistance. And the more assistance comes in, the longer it will be possible for the same corrupt heads of state to sit by the power. The system established means that state leaders spend much of their time influencing donors, while ignoring the needs of their own citizens and voters. This is an evil spiral that in the long run makes even more people poor, and that makes even more people dependent on outside assistance. Two examples of this are Norway's assistance to Uganda and Zimbabwe. The dependency paradox can also be documented through the statistics. In the years 1970-1998, the world level of assistance to Africa was at its highest, but at the same time poverty rose from 11 to 66 pst. Yes, more people are being helped with their basic needs, but at the same time we create an even greater dependence on aid, and not least today's aid regime contributes to the continuation of the population explosion. This is a development no one is earned, and at least the poor themselves. In other words, Norwegian aid can be perceived as positive at micro-level but as catastrophic at macro-level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e246	I would like to begin by stressing that the Left is among those who want to do more to improve the quality of all assistance. I am therefore pleased with the review by the National Audit Office of the humanitarian aid and the resolution of matters that can be remedied. I will be among the first to admit that humanitarian aid often has to be given under considerable time pressure, in the context of a major disaster in the Third World, where there is no or bad infrastructure. Many decisions need to be taken quickly, and it needs to be improvised in order to obtain help for those in need. However, this does not relieve us of the responsibility of ensuring the highest possible quality of humanitarian aid. The left has therefore been in favour of significant increases in quality assurance in the treatment of the current year’s aid budget. This appropriation is intended, inter alia, to cover: used to further develop new approaches and methods for evaluation and quality assurance. This applies both at national level and in cooperation with other like-minded donors. Beneficiaries of the assistance should be more closely involved in this work. I therefore support the proposals in the vote aimed at raising the quality of humanitarian aid. I believe that this requires increased resources for performance reporting and evaluation. Furthermore, it is appropriate to clarify how the methods of this activity can be remedied. It appears from the submission that the final report of projects is often limited to technical and economic aspects. Assessments of the humanitarian response itself often come into play. This, I believe, shows that there is a great potential for improvement in the quality assurance of humanitarian aid. This also applies at the intersection of short-term humanitarian efforts, transitional assistance and long-term assistance. These various forms of assistance are managed by different departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the appropriations go over different budget chapters. The study by the National Audit Office reveals, not surprisingly, that there is little coordination between these forms of assistance. Furthermore, the humanitarian actors have little plans for the closure of short-term assistance and how it may be replaced by longer-term assistance. I believe that significant efforts should be made to make the transition between the short-term and long-term assistance if not seamless, so at least more streamlined than today. Here I think it's a great efficiency gain to pick up. Furthermore, I am concerned with the restriction that the Ministry concludes annual humanitarian aid-related agreements. I realize that this form of assistance is short-sighted by its nature, and that one year in such cases should be sufficient. But when that's not the case, for example. in the event of a sustained humanitarian crisis, the appropriations should be renewable or should be carried over to the next year’s budget. This should be possible without extensive procedures requiring unnecessary resources from stakeholders. Finally, I would like to point out that much unfortunately indicates that there will be an increased demand for humanitarian aid in the future. Norwegian humanitarian aid increased to NOK 2.6 billion in 2008, and I'm also going to be among those who will argue that this amount will be even greater until next year. However, this requires an increased focus on quality and an increased focus on means to do so. I have also noticed that humanitarian efforts go to 60 countries and 186 different recipients. This I think is something much. If we're going to be able to increase quality and efficiency, I think we're going to have to focus our efforts considerably. For Norway, not everything – everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e269	It is necessary to clarify – and there is evidence that the Progress Party always forgets and does not mean – that it is impossible to ignore the fact that Norwegian aid in general, including Norwegian humanitarian aid and Norway as a donor and humanitarian actor, is of the very best. That premise must be the basis for this debate as well. Although management aspects have a potential for improvement, Norwegian humanitarian assistance – every single day – provides good results on the ground. It may be the work of Norwegian NGOs to supply Palestinians with food and medicine, the work done after the cyclone in Burma, or after the war in Georgia. It's work done in starvation, environmental disasters, war — in situations that are more or less acute in their form. This is the objective of humanitarian aid. Is this representative Tybring-Gjedde not want us to contribute? Is this what they want to cut in? I note that once again, as always, the Progress Party chooses to use what could have been a constructive debate on how we can improve the achievement of results with the assistance, to repeat the same old predictable criticism of assistance in general. It is clear that the Progress Party has also failed to carry out the work undertaken by the Government – and does – to strengthen the management of all Norwegian aid. Norway’s strong humanitarian commitment is also more than emergency aid. It is a political priority and takes place at many levels. The clustering initiative taken by Norway — and its results — is one of the most important developments in humanitarian work worldwide for a long time. So it's about prevention, and it's about political processes to prevent future humanitarian disasters, because it's not like humanitarian disasters just happen by themselves. Even though they're acute in form, they're always part of a larger image that it's possible to influence before it happens. That is why we have also addressed the keynote on the prevention of humanitarian disasters, and the Government has put forward a humanitarian strategy. I recommend everyone to read these documents. This, of course, also goes into how we manage and follow up this assistance. As in aid in general: what primarily characterises humanitarian aid is that it benefits, that it is effective and that it achieves what it needs. Without it, more lives had been lost, and the human suffering had been much greater. That is, of course – and that is also why we have this debate today – that shortcomings in its management should be corrected. There is an improvement potential, and it is always necessary to work to ensure that all Norwegian assistance is effective, targeted and deliver the best possible results. So the points that the National Audit Office addresses in its report need to be seen as a good basis for improving management and working in the future. I am pleased that this has already been done, that it has been done in the administration, and that the Ministry has a full focus on this and is doing what it can to address the appeal points the audit has looked at, so that Norwegian humanitarian aid can also be of the most effective in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e282	Let me first thank you for having received a good report and a good attitude from Stortinget on the effectiveness of Norway's humanitarian aid. It is important that we discuss this. There's a lot of money we give, and there's a lot of commitment behind the help we give -- and trying to give. Humanitarian issues are an important part of the overall foreign and development policy, and they are now widely discussed in the main communication on the Norwegian foreign policy presented. Then we have also presented a strategy for our work in this area, which has been referred to by several speakers. Here are a lot of other considerations the Riksrevision takes up, already taken up for treatment, and we've tried to throw out a path further. We take the critical remarks very seriously. Let me just say briefly that we've noticed all of the positive comments as well, I'm not going to dwell on that here, but I understand that there's a broad consensus in this room about this kind of Norwegian engagement. The report of the National Audit Office will provide the good results and areas where we can and should improve. We're serious about that, and we've created our own follow-up plan to answer this. Let me briefly comment on some of the Committee's comments. Firstly, to the representative Lånker: it is clear that bad time is always going to be a characteristic of this type of work, where it is largely about responding to very acute crises. We can prepare, and we can prevent, but the crises are always new and complex and require a great deal of improvisation. We also need to facilitate this in order to be able to happen. Better cooperation arrangements with established humanitarian organisations are required. That is a good point, and we want to improve that through the dialogue we have with Norwegian and international aid organisations. On results and goals, I agree that we should be better able to analyse and inform about the results and achieve targets, even though I believe we have a wealth of access to information about the results we achieve today. In cooperation with Norad, we strengthen work on performance reporting and evaluations, including international evaluation work of which we are part. The humanitarian area is already covered by the overall Norwegian aid performance report, and in addition we will produce an annual humanitarian performance report. With regard to capacity and efficient management, the Committee points to the need to ensure adequate resources for assessment, quality assurance, etc. I can assure you that the priorities of the limited resources available to the EEAS are high on my agenda. We have to look at both the capacity and the way we work. We are in the process of introducing better tools in the management of grants and setting up a separate administrative section in the department managing the humanitarian resources. We have also strengthened the requirements of the organisations for grant management, and we have established our own central control unit in the U.D. to follow up our zero tolerance for corruption. Then there's also a question about one-year versus multi-annual agreements. Here we are looking for flexibility. This area differs from the long-term development assistance. The National Audit Service acknowledges that we have been among the most flexible humanitarian donors. We have to take care of that. It will continue to be important to be able to provide individual grants with a one-year framework. At the same time, not all means must be equally flexible, and we take the point of ensuring predictability and longer-termity in this area as well. We will now conclude pilot projects for multi-annual cooperation agreements with selected organisations within central countries and themes. With regard to the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, I believe that parts of this are addressed in the approach we have to the majority's comments. But let me briefly mention some points. The proposal to amend the budget proposal in order to allow Stortinget to gain better control, we take note and look at how the format can improve. I do that together with the Minister for the Environment and Development. I have been interested in increased focus on results and achievement. Better final reports from organisations are important in the dialogue with them. I do not agree with concentration on fewer countries. This type of effort is about responding to crises where they arise. It is not the number of countries that are critical here, but where the crisis is, and our capacity to achieve it. Here I believe that the comparison with Sweden’s reduction in the number of bilateral co-operation countries for assistance – with respect to reporting – is halting. So to the post from the Progress Party. It was a strange post, I'd say. The Progress Party proposes – as far as I understand – to increase Norway's humanitarian commitment, i.e. to spend more money on what we are discussing today, while the representative Tybring-Gjedde spent all his time talking about not getting results from the assistance, and that we should thus cut it short. It is a well-known party argument, but it may not belong in this debate – in an area where the Progress Party wants to increase its efforts. So here I thought it was very strange. In the case of Zimbabwe, in fact, Norway does not provide assistance, but we provide humanitarian support to a disaster-affected population – outside the control of the authorities. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde's theory – which I believe is fantastic in the historical context – that by helping the poor we make them even poorer, I believe is a theory that does not tolerate light. I would like to suggest a better work by Alf Prøysen than the representative here referred to, to illustrate the effect of Norwegian development aid. Finally, it is important for us to have a debate on both the direction, the objectives and the long-term strategy for this work – and, of course, on the control of the development of the money in a good way. That is why it is with respect for the good work that the Riksrevision has done, that we are already in the process of a thorough evaluation and a thorough effort to improve our work forms and our procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e313	Misunderstandings can easily occur. I am not so sure whether this committee is the right one to address this issue, but the report has pointed out that resource scarcity – not least at foreign stations – is an important factor in the failure to follow up these projects. We have every reason to be proud of what Norway – the U.D., the Government and to the extent that the Storting – is doing as an actor in humanitarian disasters and crises, but that is exactly what I think is an important point, on which we find reason to ask questions. What is the extent of this? What is the reason that resource scarcity is still a factor that makes it impossible to follow up these different projects properly? Because it's a weakness that will once again lead to that you can't do such a good job next time. So I want the Foreign Minister's answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e318	It's related to the fact that this is a complex question. I'm not going to put all the emphasis on resource scarcity, but it's that we've got a significant increase in access to resources that are going to go to the concrete targets on the ground, but we don't have the corresponding increase in resources that we can use on the administrative capacity. Then we try to turn on and release resources to be able to strengthen it as well, but it's all the way a challenge. It's also a healthy challenge, because that means we have to try to improve, simplify and streamline the way we work. In addition, however, the means to be able to invest both in aid and in humanitarian matters have increased, and that is good. The demands we make for control, efficiency and implementation thus also involve increased efforts by our people. We have then tried to add more to the embassies, which are close to where the problems are, but it can apply to the employees where the workload is high. And then the answer can not only be that we have to increase the number of people out there one by one – we also have to streamline. This has been a challenge, and I think it's going to be a challenge in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e326	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e329	The right does not share the general perceptions of development assistance expressed by the representative of the Progress Party in this debate. This case does not concern development assistance in general, but humanitarian aid. On the other hand, I am fully in favour of the joint comments that the Right and the Advance Party have in the vote, they only complement the majority in the vote. The rapporteur said in a quite striking way that there was paraphrase of the majority's remarks. So there's no big disagreement about this, maybe with a deepening of a couple of points. I would like to comment on this in relation to the comments of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am pleased that the Ministry has submitted a planned follow-up to the Riksrevisions. Although this is about humanitarian organisations with a high degree of legitimacy in the population, that is. A great deal of support in the people – although it may not always be reflected in the number of paying members, I think they do – and although this is about the part of the unhelp that may have the greatest uprising in the people, I think it is important that the applications of humanitarian organisations and their projects are also critical. We write in the setting – that was a point the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not comment on, but there was no disagreement in it – that the ministry should perhaps make sure that the applications from the organisations have ‘realistic goals and performance requirements’. Because it could be that voluntary organisations are going into the trap, to say that you might have too high ambitions in relation to what you can do with major disasters, and that there is also a problem when you have to write a report, that it is not so easy to say what you have achieved with respect to the very ambitious goals you had with the business. It may also contribute to organisations providing reports that say something more about achieving goals. Finally, a more general note. The representative Svein Roald Hansen noted that he was surprised that the Right was standing with the Advance Party on these comments. Well, I have the general opinion that it's the content of the comments that counts, not who you're dealing with. I have been with Mr many times. Hansen's party because it's been substantive agreement, and I'm going to continue with it if there's agreement. The comment he particularly highlighted was our emphasis on the need for an independent external evaluation of the results. I'm assuming there's no disagreement about evaluating results. I believe that there is no disagreement that the evaluation should be independent. If it's not, it's not an evaluation, because you can't evaluate yourself. They're the ones who do it too, but it's not that common. That it must then be independent and external – that is in itself in the terms – is perhaps butter in the bottle. If it's independent, it's external, and if it's external, it's hopefully independent. So I'm assuming there's no big disagreement about that. I believe that in the case of Norwegian u-help in general – I have recorded that in recent years' debates on u-help, too, on the left side, there has been a somewhat greater scepticism for parts of development aid, as it has traditionally been on the right side – there is a need to take all that kind of scepticism for development aid seriously, because those of us who are followers of increasing aid in the years to come depend on the fact that the aid has considerable legitimacy in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e344	To follow up the representative Foss’ last post: I have no problem agreeing with him in most of what he said. I have also been in a situation where I have sent applications to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for support, and I have received several of them rejected. I think the experience of humanitarian organisations in Norway is that there is no simple parade march to get support. It is important that we are critical and demand the organisations that are applying, while at the same time wanting to have a close relationship with the most operational and those with international weight, because we have to act quickly. So we're taking this with us. Especially since volumes have increased, it is important that we are able to maintain a critical look and also be able to reject it when necessary. Otherwise, I fully agree that it is important for legitimacy to have a critical focus on long-term aid and humanitarian aid. It has been the intention of the Minister for the Environment and Development and my intention as long as we have been responsible, to invite to such a critical debate and welcome it, because we believe it actually improves the legitimacy of what is needed, namely to continue contributing to international solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e353	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e369	There have been clear signals from several governments about the importance of combating financial crime. It has been assumed that the amounts in the form of taxes and charges that are exempt and thus do not benefit the community are probably two-digit billion each year. The purpose of the Riksrevision study has been to identify and assess the efforts of the authorities against financial crime. The national audit has reviewed the efforts in this area in the tax administration, the customs and tax administration, the labour and welfare services and the police and prosecution authorities. The detection of financial crime depends both on the self-action of the police and on the efforts made in the control settings. Good cooperation between law enforcement and police is also important. At the same time, it is essential that there is competence and material and financial resources that enable a qualitative supervisory and control activity to be carried out. The national audit report shows some alarming signs during the investigation period. To mention something: The number and proportion of book-keeping records from the tax and tax haven has decreased. There is a decrease in the number of notifications and one third of county tax offices have not followed the recommendations in the notification document. There are wide variations between the counties as regards the requirements and actual shares of traders and companies under control. The reorganization of the customs and charging seat should include, inter alia: contribute to the release of resources for priority control tasks, but it appears that the resources allocated to them have not increased. Also in this department there are variations between regions. The Employment and Welfare Act does not carry out systematic risk and materiality assessments of social security abuse. Several counties have significant outstanding payments in the areas of daily and return payments, and the department does not have an overview of how many of the matters have expired. This is not satisfactory. In terms of criminal prosecution of financial crime, this has been relatively stable over the period 2004–2007. The percentage of information varies between police districts. 17 pst. of the cases that were not resolved, were dismissed due to a lack of procedural capacity, and this concerns 30 pst. by cases in 2007. This suggests that economic crime has become a lower priority during the period than foreseen in the Action Plan against financial crime and that the resources of police and prosecution authorities need to be strengthened in this area. The study shows that the interaction between the departments involved in the study is not good enough. In the fight against economic crime, the exchange of information between institutions is crucial. At the same time, this must be done in a way that respects privacy. The possibility of administrative penalties varies between departments. There may be a cause for the large amount of variation between etats in the cases reported. This is something that needs to be addressed in the context of the treatment of the suspension of the Sanctions Committee, with a view to a more consistent practice. The national audit concludes that there is a potential for improvement both in the scope of control and in the coordination of control activities. The police and prosecution authority is a bottleneck in the follow-up to notified cases. Major changes and transformations in the tax and labour and welfare budgets may have helped to ensure that the activity to combat economic crime has not been at the top of these years. To this end, a Joint Committee expresses the possibility of a new study being carried out in a few years' time, when, among other things, the changes take place. in connection with the Nav reform has been working for some time. It is an important political objective to reduce economic crime. It is necessary to focus both on the control side and on preventive and awareness-raising measures, while following up the police authorities. Economic crime has become increasingly internationalised and organised, giving rise to additional challenges, with cross-border cooperation. I expect the Government to take into account the issues raised by the National Audit Office in the study, and to step up efforts in this area both domestically and in cooperation with other countries. Finally, I would just like to inform you that the vote is unanimous throughout the committee, with one exception – the Advance Party and the Right have made a comment, pointing out that the Oslo police force is the department with the lowest clearance rate, and asking for more money to the Oslo police.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e413	The National Audit Office has looked at the government's efforts to combat economic crime, the so-called white-collar offenders. Sometimes we have a discussion about the level of penalties between financial crime and violent crime, and sometimes we have a discussion about whether there can be a mismatch between the judgments in economic crime that have been committed and the judgments in a violent case. But what we should have no doubt about is that economic crime should be a priority in Norway, because we should have confidence in our economic system, in the tax system, in the customs and charging authorities, and not least in the social security rights and the aspects of public welfare. The rapporteur was concerned that there could be up to two-digit billion amounts for which the community was confiscated because of financial crime in Norway per year. years. The Committee on Justice was last year in Cambodia, which is the country in fifth place on the list of corruption and where democracy is in deficit. This is an extreme point, but Norway should also not be naive and should not take seriously the fact that we also have challenges in this field in Norway. I believe that work on prevention in this field is important. How we investigate financial crime will have a general preventive effect – it will be considered whether to provide the false information to the social security office, whether to avoid providing information on the company’s income, assessing the possibility of being detected and, where appropriate, the penalty to be imposed. This is what we have to bring with us when we develop the rules on economic crime. These are very complicated issues, which require competence and resources for those who are going to investigate them. These are those to be checked, and the interaction between the authorities investigating these cases, both in relation to the police and in relation to the courts. In the Riksrevision report, we see that there are challenges in this area, which the rapporteur was also concerned with. With regard to the 2009 budget, the Progress Party has put in a cut of 85 million. kr to customs and 248 million. kr to the tax haven. This does not help to strengthen the possibility of getting a better investigation of these matters. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has said that we will intensify our efforts to combat economic crime. So what has the government done in this area? Well, we've strengthened the Ecocrim Financial Intelligence Unit, which has got eleven extra people. We have also provided funds for a very advanced specialised system for analysing suspicious transactions and other financial intelligence. Then we have invested in the police in general, where the appropriations for the police and prosecution authorities have increased by over NOK 1 billion in 2009. Some of the extra appropriations for the police were included in the package of measures relating to St.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009, where we got 460 new civilian positions in the police. This will help to free personnel who can work precisely on financial crime, where we can have auditors and people with a social and economic background, who will be at the heart of economic crime. It is important to increase competence in this field, so that priority is given to and put into action. We have done so by establishing our own annual post-secondary education course at the Police College, and by including it in education at the Police College. Of the 460 civil posts that came just before Christmas, 12 new posts of the 460 civil posts have come to Ecokrim. The government will draw up an action plan in this area, and this with the coordination and interaction between the different departments is just one of the points made by the National Audit Office. After all, it is so important for us to reach between the control authority – between the police and prosecution authorities and, finally, the courts – that we have that line with us when we are going to fight this. Another thing that's important is that we also focus on this having international branches, and that we have this with us in the work. One thing I've been thinking about about in terms of financial crime is that it's not going to pay off, and that we have the opportunity to withdraw property, expensive cars and other things you've acquired through financial crime. Here, in a short time, the Police Directorate will present a report, and it is important that the Government also include this in the Action Plan on Economic Crime, which comes to the end of the summer. It was also pointed out that the Oslo Police have challenges in this area. In the 2009 budget, we have also added 12 million. SEK to three new teams for economic crime, which is equivalent to 18 annual works. Of the measures package of 460 civilian positions, 100 went to Oslo Police District. Finally, I would like to point out that I and the Committee consider it important that we look at a new evaluation of the work on economic crime in the light of the changes in the Nav reform and that an action plan should now be in place and on what new measures we can take in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e443	I took the floor thoughtfully about the committee's position and the background report that is both solid. I think we have to be so open and honest to say that this is a field where society jumps far after the crime that's going on. Of course, everyone is worried, and that should be done, because you steal from the common fund in different ways, so it sucks. So I took the word to say that, and to say two more things. Sometimes you have to salute some unknown heroes. Some of the heroes who fight this crime, which I've discovered in different parts of my life, are tax evisors -- people who are really on and doing a hero's job. I need to say it from the Stortinge pulpit. It's not always they get that recognition, but I think they deserve it. Then I have to say that in one area, which I have also been working on in the last few years, and which is not affected by this report, for example. insurance fraud, we're about as close as we can get to a legal space as possible. We know that from the statistics of the insurance industry on all those who require some kind of refund from a company, and then get a discount, and then we can measure it against those rejections that are never charged. Clearly, there is a deep concern about that. If we just look at the numbers alone, which are rolled over in addition to Norwegian policyholders in the form of increased premiums every year, we're out of a very serious relationship. There's a lot of relationships behind this again. Some of the conditions are those that relate to the international crime of car thefts, and how black and white money alternates as it pleases, across the world around us. I took the word almost to say that this is a field that we must have a significant pressure on. And I don't think anyone is going to go into this in any other way than to say humbly that here it's incredibly much undone. But at least one thing will signal very strongly to the Left: it is short-term policy – yes, it is beyond ostrich policy – to reduce the customs and levy rate and all the agencies that are set to ensure that law and order are properly enforced in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e456	It is, as the rapporteur said, a unanimous vote by the Committee, and it is just to say that the Government also fully agrees with what the Committee says that: ‘effective fight against economic crime is important both for reasons of general prevention and for the confidence of the police, the prosecution authority and the courts’. This is fully in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, where the Government says that we will ‘intensify the fight against economic crime’. Important aspects of the Government's efforts in this area will be highlighted by the comments in my speech, and certainly also in the Minister of Finance, and by more concrete remarks from my side in the Ministry of Justice. It is quite right, as the committee says, that it is important to prevent financial crime. It has been assumed that the overall preventative effect of reactions is particularly high in the area of financial crime, where crime is often due to a well-considered calculation of the profit potential against the risk of discovery and possible reaction. In line with this, the government has also increased its efforts to combat economic crime in recent years. A target has, among other things: increased general prevention in the area of financial crime. With regard to the confidence of the police, the Police Directorate conducted a national survey on the police in 2008, where the survey audience was directly asked about the confidence of the police. That's 83 pst. that they trust the police. It's a high number, but of course it can always be worked for an improvement. It's supposed to be doing these tests on a regular basis, so we get a good tool. The results shall be entered in the Police Master's Management Tool, including, inter alia: is actively used in the governance dialogue between the Directorate of Police and the individual police districts. In the opinion, the Committee also points out that: ‘coverage of financial crime depends both on the police’s own efforts and on the efforts made to control the situation’. I leave to others to answer for the check rates, but in the case of the Ministry of Justice, it is important to mention the Ecocrime Financial Intelligence Unit, which has been strengthened by eleven persons and has received substantial funds for a very advanced and specially developed system for analysing suspicious transactions and other financial intelligence. The system was put into production in the spring of 2008 and generates analytical reports that will be the starting point for initiating investigations into police districts. In the light of the other measures to strengthen the fight against economic crime, we have strong faith that this will generate increased self-production of economic criminal offences in the police, including increased general prevention. I share the Committee's concerns when it writes that it is very unfortunate if control offices fail to report cases due to ‘lack of resources/priorities’ in the police. That's just one of the reasons why the government is doing a lot of work in this area. I'm not sure it's right to talk about a lack of priority within the police in the fight against financial crime. For its part, the Advocate General states that there is ‘no indication that the police have used too much of their resources to combat other forms of crime’. I agree with the Riksadvokat in that assessment. It is difficult to imagine that the police would reduce efforts in other areas. The government has put in place a number of measures to strengthen the police in general. This strengthening of the police also increases the police’s ability to bet on individual types of cases, including financial crime. It will at any time be the total amount of resources available to the police and how to make use of the resources available to the police, which will determine how much you can do, what efforts you can have, including, of course, the commitment to financial crime. It's always useful to get these reviews that the Riksrevision has had. Of course, we take note of what the Committee says, and there will also be important input into the preparation of a new action plan on economic crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e486	It's an important report that the Riksrevision has made, on some of the things that are crucial for people to have the security that we all share in contributing to the fissure layer, and for no one to be fooled away. That's exactly what you do in the tax rate and in the customs and tax rate. I myself believe that this is a very important area to prioritise, and we have focused very much on tax evasion during this period. Also internationally, there is now a completely different focus on combating tax havens. It's been in the wake of the financial crisis. Themes for which it was not possible to obtain a hearing in the past, e.g. coordination of sanctions against countries that do not provide information is now quite different in understanding. I think Odd Einar Dørum was into something that's very important. I would like to say something about it first, because when you go through any weaknesses, it's incredibly important that it doesn't draw the general picture of the work done. We have an effective tax rate and an effective tariff and tax rate, mainly because they consist of competent people who know what they are doing – because this is a demanding area, where what you have from experience and insight comes with very well. There is an incredibly important work to be done in this area. We have significantly strengthened efforts in these sectors, during this period – 140 million. NOK as a lump sum and SEK 240 million. kr in total as a stepping up of resources. The National Audit Office points to weaknesses – under two headings. Firstly, they point out that the bookkeeping and business controls of the tax and customs and tax havens have decreased during the period they have assessed, from 2004 to 2007. The national audit has concluded that this is not in line with the assumptions, namely increased effort in that period. Secondly, the study shows that there are too many regional variations in the work done. So let me go over the heels and tell Storting what we're going to do with it. We have a very clear view that the decline in controls during the period referred to by the Riksrevision is of a temporary nature. There is a consequence of demanding adjustments in the context of the reorganization of the tax rate and of many changes in the positions related to control work. Then we're back to the fact that competence is important. That is why, as the major reorganisation begins to approach the end, and as we started to take action in relation to the revised national budget in 2008, and strengthened the budget, we have addressed the problem raised by the National Audit Office. I would, of course, like to follow closely that we have good results further. So to what the Riksrevision points out, there's an unacceptable variation between the states as to who controls. We've already dealt with this with the floors. We have addressed this in the governance dialogue with the Tax Directorate, and it has been followed up in the governance letter of the Tax Directorate for 2009 in the light of the criticism of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that the number of reports from the tax administration to the police and prosecution authorities has decreased during the period and that about one third of the county tax offices have not followed the recommendations in the notification instructions. We have already asked the Tax Directorate to clarify to the tax offices that this applicable notification file should be complied with. This was done in a letter dated 21 November 2008. We have seen it necessary for the Tax Directorate to review this notification document – and this work has been carried out by the Tax Directorate. So over to the customs and fee rate: there we have the same picture, not that there is a decrease, but that the number of checks has not increased. It is pointed out by the National Audit Office. We agree with the Committee that this is not a successful development. However, we would like to stress very clearly that customs and charging activities have had much better results, and that they have revealed many serious infringements. This is something that has increased significantly during the period. With regard to the area of the Customs and Charges Directorate, the National Audit Office shows that relatively few cases are reported to the police and that this is a significant regional variation. The Customs and Fee Seat has developed guidance guidelines for use in this type of case. We have also mentioned with the Customs and Tax Directorate that we want it to be clarified to the customs regions that the non-discrimination of the customs and excise authorities is to be ensured in the case of notifications. And we have stated in the same letter that the notification guidelines should have the same formal status in the tariff and tax rate as in the tax rate. The low number of formal notifications to the police and prosecution authorities must, of course, be seen in the context of customs practices with simplified submissions in the smaller smuggling cases. However, the work on a formal instruction on this is now under way in the Customs and Charges Directorate. The last point I'm going to comment on is the need for greater coordination between the agencies in this very important control work. From the Ministry of Finance we have in Ot.prp. No 31 for 2007–08 — as we presented a year ago — facilitated the provision of information to police and prosecution authorities on suspected offences that go beyond the areas for which we are responsible. It is a contribution to better coordination and control in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e507	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e523	The international financial crisis and the recession — with rising unemployment — show the importance of innovation in Norway for the country. It's about the ability to help bring about change and create new, forward-looking jobs. Therefore, we should read and listen to the National Audit Office’s study of Innovation Norway about five years after its establishment — or rather five years after the merger of the industrial instruments of the State Food and Rural Development Fund, the State Guidance Office for Inventors, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the Norwegian Export Council. In the context of the establishment of Innovation Norway, the Stortinget argued that the merger of four enterprises into one would ensure a more targeted effort of the industrial instruments and a more user-friendly organisation. We need to learn from the weaknesses identified in the study and ensure that Innovation Norway is better equipped to contribute to new activities across the whole country — and to keep unemployment down. The Committee is united on the essential elements of the vote, and I will therefore do my best for the main points here. I expect that the Right Party and the Advance Party will do well for their own comments. But I would like to make a little comment on the Progress Party, which clearly believes that Innovation Norway should contribute more to centralisation: Nutrition development in the districts is undoubtedly one of the main goals that the Stortinget has given Innovation Norway. The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to elucidate the effectiveness of Innovation Norway as a State industrial development actor in the light of the objectives set. Innovation Norway’s main objective is to promote business and socio-economic profitable business development across the country and to trigger the business opportunities of different districts and regions by contributing to innovation, internationalisation and profiling. The National Audit Office’s survey provides useful knowledge of how the objectives have been pursued. And there's a lot of good going on in the business. At the same time, significant weaknesses should be identified, which should be addressed in the future. The National Audit Office shows that only about half of the aid granted by Innovation Norway goes to projects registered as innovative. Innovation Norway’s instruments shall also pursue objectives other than innovation. However, the Committee agrees that the level of innovation is too low on the basis of the objectives set by the Storting. The Committee therefore considers that better policy follow-up to the objectives of innovation in the future is necessary, so that innovation in Norway is more able to find and develop several innovative projects. These are clear targets. Although Innovation Norway also has other objectives, innovation in different areas is central in the future. Here we can get better. This area therefore needs to be followed up by Innovation Norway’s sponsors and the Ministry of Ownership. There is a risk of investing in new technologies and products. The Committee therefore considers that the Riksrevision is asking a timely question as to whether Innovation Norway should support projects at risk to a greater extent. It is necessary that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade carry out a review thereof, as notified by the Ministry. The National Audit Office is also clear that the interaction between the activities of Innovation Norway abroad and the Norwegian business is too weak. Innovation Norway’s main partners, such as the county councils and the NHO regional offices, emphasise that Innovation Norway continues to operate as a bank to a large extent and that they work too little outlyingly, among others. to develop good projects and to create networks for industrial development in the regions. The Committee considers it important that Innovation Norway is able to give priority to the outsourced activities relating to consultancy, transfer of competences and networking for enterprises and entrepreneurs. A criticism I think should be highlighted is the large number of sponsors and difficulties with coordination and clear ownership management. 40 letters of assignment from five departments and from county and county councils, as well as a comprehensive portfolio of instruments, are an invitation to target conflicts and less power in the field of industrial development. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade states that sectoral ministries are responsible for their own instruments and that it is difficult to achieve the optimum functioning of an association such as Innovation Norway. I would like to underline the Committee's view that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, as the Ministry of Ownership, is responsible for coordinating the various departments and contracting entities, and that the possibility of exercising this function must be strengthened. This must also include stronger professional governance and coordination. The Committee shares the Riksrevision's assessment that further coordination and governance are also needed of a professional nature. This must apply not least when new programmes are launched and when new instruments are put into effect. The Committee considers that only the Ministry of Industry and Trade can play the role of an active Ministry of Ownership. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade announced that they would start work in 2009 on a comprehensive evaluation of Innovation Norway, which has been in operation for about five years. I want to stress – and I think that is on behalf of the entire committee – that Innovation Norway is life-creating. They are making a hard and good effort to contribute to the development of future jobs. That is why it is the greatest responsibility of the Biggest and the Government to support this important work on people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e551	In its document, the National Audit Office writes that Innovation Norway has a complex organisation and manages a wide range of systems to meet many needs, and that the various departments carry out their requirements and lead to good coordination. Yeah, that's exactly what the Riksrevision has in it. It is important that the departments follow the coordination between themselves when it comes to the governance of Innovation Norway. In 2010, when the counties enter the owner’s side of the organisation, additional requirements will be imposed for interaction and cooperation between the owners and the contractors, so that Innovation Norway can offer a holistic offering to companies and entrepreneurs in Norway. As politicians, we all need to be concerned about the close cooperation and good overview of the tools we use. Innovation Norway has a comprehensive office network both nationally and internationally. Innovation Norway shall, with its competence and presence at regional, national and international level, facilitate good coordination of innovation policy and policy. The government announces in St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2008, popularly referred to as the Innovation Communication, that they will put in place an evaluation of Innovation Norway for, among others. To find out if Innovation Norway’s instruments are appropriate to its customers’ needs. This is important in order to improve the ability of the tool to meet future business needs. International presence, contact and cooperation are important for an innovative Norwegian business. Internationalisation must therefore be an essential part of Innovation Norway’s work. The public utility and the extra-richest represents a resource for enterprises that have or want to have an international commitment. The government clearly indicates that Innovation Norway will contribute to increasing the internationalisation of Norwegian enterprises. It is obvious then that the Riksrevision’s investigations point to the fact that the district offices may have a lack of competence associated with export and internationalisation, and that Innovation Norway’s international work is to a small extent integrated into the company’s operations. But then there is also reason to add that there has been a great deal of positive in Innovation Norway’s work on internationalisation since its launch five years ago. Nevertheless, it is essential that the organisation strengthens its work in this area and ensures even better cooperation between offices at home and outside. Innovation Norway’s main objective is to promote business and socio-economic profitable business development across the country and to trigger the business opportunities for different districts and regions through innovation, internationalisation and profiling. In 2007, Innovation Norway made up its promises in the form of grants, loans or guarantees totalling NOK 4.7 billion. Innovation Norway’s work is systematically evaluated through the company’s target and performance management system, the annual customer impact studies and regular evaluations. I hope and believe that this evaluation work has done that Innovation Norway is already becoming more effective, more customer-friendly and more targeted than what the Riksrevision report reveals. It is important not to use the innovation dimension for the short term. In order to trigger innovation and innovation, a broad range of instruments is required. Support for the conversion project, streamlining work, building skills and networking activities can be fundamental to achieving innovation. It is that Innovation Norway has an important role to play in all these areas. I will also mention that Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Norwegian Research Council have had a cooperation agreement for the period 2005–08, and the parties will conclude a new such agreement for the period 2009–2013. The aim of the agreements is to create a more holistic tool in the field of innovation. The fact that many still experience Innovation Norway as a bank and that some district offices believe that they have received too little training and updating their skills is worrying. It is also worth noting that the investigation also addresses the question of whether Innovation Norway should provide more support for more risky projects. The government's policy is to delegate more tasks and responsibilities to local and regional levels. The aim of multiple regional tasks and greater regional responsibility in innovation and industrial policy is to better exploit regional opportunities, advantages and efforts. For Innovation Norway, regionalisation as previously mentioned means that the county municipalities come in on the owner’s side of the company – with 49 p.m. – with effect from 1 January 2010. The new ownership constellation shall facilitate better coordination of innovation and business policies at regional and national level. Common objectives are a means of closing them. The announcement of the evaluation by the Government during the year will provide answers as to whether the objectives set for the company are achieved in a good and effective way. A natural starting point is an assessment of Innovation Norway’s services aimed at promoting innovation, internationalisation, regional economic development and profiling of Norway and Norwegian business internationally. It is also necessary to assess whether Innovation Norway’s service portfolio is efficient, transparent and accessible to users. Furthermore, the relationship between the different sectoral policy systems needs to be assessed. The National Audit Office’s report points to the need for better coordination and governance, including of a professional nature, in order to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the company. The government will also assess how the current organisation of the agency provides for the need for co-financing of major regional and national projects. The evaluation will form the basis for any changes in the prioritisation and arrangement of the company’s instruments. This may be necessary to enable Innovation Norway to meet the needs of tomorrow’s business. Of course, then, the issues raised by the Riksrevision in its report will be important elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e579	The National Audit Office has done a thorough job in its evaluation of Innovation Norway and has come to the point that the Progress Party has feared for many years, namely that Innovation Norway is a political tool to meet the political objectives of individual parties, rather than an instrument to support business start-ups and innovation projects in business. The study carried out by the National Audit Office shows that only half of the projects supported by Innovation Norway have an element of innovation. And of the half registered as innovative projects, only half are left with an innovation rate that contributes to new products or services, i.e. that of the entire portfolio of Innovation Norway, it is only 25 pst. of the funds that go to what businesses and people most think Innovation Norway is going to do. Then we have a problem, and that might explain all the requests we get from disappointed entrepreneurs and business people who have been in contact with Innovation Norway. It is clear that there is a big difference between expectations and realities in terms of what Innovation Norway is going to do. Initially, I think most people feel that Innovation Norway should contribute to innovation and be a partner in a market where private investors do not dare take risks. They shall contribute with competence and experience and be a channel for the realisation of projects with a future potential. This is in the context that politicians highlight Innovation Norway – as a state instrument. Unfortunately, it is not the experience that many people have after contacting Innovation Norway. When applicants know that in 2007, loans, grants and guarantees to the company committed NOK 4.7 billion, and politicians always refer to the company when they are contacted by businesses and entrepreneurs, there is a conflict between reality perceptions that are difficult to deal with for those who see it as difficult to get through. This does not mean that the Progress Party believes that all projects should be supported — it is probably a mixed mix of applicants for the instruments — but we feel that there is a growing mistrust of the instrument, and this may lead to many good projects never applying and being realised because it is felt that the type of risk capital that Innovation Norway should contribute to is inaccessible. Innovation Norway's framework is also characterised by many political leaders who do not care about innovation. Among many of the considerations that Innovation Norway needs to take are: consideration of district, gender and economic areas. This means that the pot available to e.g. a male founder from Oslo, is very limited no matter how good a project he should have. On the other hand, if you are a female founder from a mountain branch, you have a much greater chance of realizing your project with contributions from Innovation Norway. In the view of the Progress Party, these political intentions hamper the degree of innovation and innovation in the projects, which may lead to the loss of many potential jobs. Another problem facing Innovation Norway is that there are many different departments providing funding, with different governance signals and leads for the use of funds. This is not something that applicants are necessarily aware of, and unrealistic expectations are created about how much of the funds are available to the individual applicant. It may be appropriate to consider whether the funds negotiated through agricultural settlements should be managed by others other than Innovation Norway. These funds are to a small extent focused on innovation, but serve more as support for the conversion work of agriculture. Anyway, they're part of the big pot that many think they can apply for funds from. When they are then informed that these are funds that are tied up to a special industry, it helps to weaken the image of the role that most people think Innovation Norway should have in the business world. The Progress Party has not concluded on this issue, but we hope that this will be considered in the evaluation of Innovation Norway that will now take place. The National Audit Office’s report is important in making our instrument as good as possible and a good contribution to that evaluation. But it is so important that the political parties themselves evaluate their position on the instrument, and perhaps especially their position on what Innovation Norway should be: should it be a body to promote innovation, innovation and new jobs in the future, or only a device to channel money to some electoral groups? If our state instrument is to enjoy the respect we expect, it should perhaps reflect more fully the expectations we have for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e602	The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to elucidate the effectiveness of Innovation Norway as a State industrial development actor. The objectives of Innovation Norway are to promote business and socio-economic profitable business development across the country and to trigger the opportunities of different districts and regions by contributing to innovation, internationalisation and profiling. It is serious to the right that the Riksrevision demonstrates that only about half of the aid granted by Innovation Norway goes to projects registered as innovative. In fact, the proportion has risen slightly from 2005 to 2007, but the level of innovation is too low on the basis of the goals set for the company. It is clear that something should be done when the Riksrevision asks questions about whether Innovation Norway should be more supportive of more risky projects, and when both customer managers and Innovation customers of Norway consider it difficult to get an overview of the instrument portfolio and that there is room for improvement. 40 letters of assignment, as well as a comprehensive portfolio of instruments, can create demanding governance challenges. An overall committee notes that the Ministry of Industry and Trade states that the sectoral ministries are responsible for their own instruments and that it is demanding to make an association such as Innovation Norway work optimally. But the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is the Ministry of Ownership responsible for coordination between the various departments and contracting entities, and the possibility of exercising this function needs to be strengthened. I would say that the need for an evaluation of the system is open today. An instrument that does not achieve its objectives is in good days a costly affair. In bad days, the consequences are greater. The country is now in the midst of a serious financial crisis in which we hear about the bankruptcy and new unemployed every day. Unemployment has increased by 25 000 people since September last year, and it has not increased so rapidly since the crisis of the 1980s. In such a situation, it is particularly important that the instrument built to support Norwegian business, value creation and innovation in particular operates in a good way. The objective must be to strengthen the Norwegian economy out of the crisis. Innovation and innovation will then be an important competitive advantage for both existing and new companies. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will start work in 2009 on an overall evaluation of Innovation Norway, which has then been operating with today’s portfolio of activities in approx. five years. On several occasions, the right has proposed such an evaluation. Among other things, last year we did this in the context of the consideration of representatives from the Progress Party to make Innovation Norway’s instruments more comprehensive and accessible to all applicants. The right then proposed, together with the Christian People's Party, that an overall evaluation be carried out of the public instrument for enterprise-related support, and that particular attention be paid to the achievement of results, the criteria for allocation and whether the systems are adapted to users, and that an assessment be carried out in the evaluation of both the County and Innovation Norway as actors in today's instrument. The right is therefore pleased that such an evaluation is now being carried out. The right does not disagree with the fact that, in the future, there should also be scope for taking regional policy considerations into account in the public sector, because it is desirable to ensure a country-wide settlement and to increase value creation on the basis of regional assumptions. But I still believe that the instruments of innovation in Norway today are being controlled too much of a political peculiarity that makes innovation and the utility of projects a little bit in the background. The innovation mechanisms should be made more general and nationwide, so that new enterprises, irrespective of their geographical location, fall within the scope of application. On the right, the Government’s evaluation looks at Innovation Norway with open eyes and focuses on better target achievement. The objective must be ambitious because the needs of business in the wake of the financial crisis have changed considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e628	Innovation Norway is an important instrument, especially now, as several speakers have pointed out. Then it is of course important, and I believe that we all agree, that public efforts are both targeted and effective, and therefore it is also important that the institutions that manage public instruments are regularly monitored, as the Riksrevision now does. After hearing the comments from the representative Fostervold, I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to say – I cannot speak on behalf of the Riksrevision – that we do not read the Riksrevision's points or opinions in this matter, so that Innovation Norway has become a political tool, which the representative Fostervold here called for and thus tried to absorb the income of his policy. In my opinion, the Riksrevision points to a number of challenges that it is important that we take into account the ongoing governance dialogue we have had with Innovation Norway, and also in the longer-term work on developing the company. Not least, we are going to review the evaluation we are about to carry out during this year. Innovation Norway was several companies, as the representative Vaggen Malvik briefed on here, when they were merged for approx. five years ago. We believe that the time has come to start the overall evaluation and to start working on it. We want, as I understand, the Storting is also doing, to find out whether the goals set for the company are being achieved in a good enough and effective way. We are currently preparing a detailed description of the evaluation mission. We do this together with the other sponsors of Innovation Norway. There is now a major evaluation to be published in public tenders. I'm seagoing, when we're doing this, about both taking what the Riksrevision points out, and the Committee's comments and input into this debate in Stortinget. This evaluation shall assess whether Innovation Norway achieves its objectives. We would like, among other things: examine the effectiveness, transparency and accessibility of the services offered by Innovation Norway to users, as several speakers have pointed out. I also believe that this evaluation must give us greater insight into the results of Innovation Norway’s activities. It will thus form the basis for any changes in the priority also of the company's instruments. We need to ensure that Innovation Norway is able to meet the needs of business at all times. I have noticed that the Committee shares the Riksrevision’s assessment that the level of innovation in Innovation Norway’s instruments is too low. I also take that with me. The main objective of Innovation Norway is, as is known, to promote business and socio-economical economical economic development across the country and trigger the industrial opportunities of different districts and regions by contributing to innovation, internationalisation and profiling. But it is also true that some activity can be both business and socio-economic profitable without the degree of innovation being always the same. However, in this evaluation we will see whether Innovation Norway meets its main objective and, to be sure, also all its targets. I agree with the Committee that the challenges of internationalisation should be given greater attention in the future. It is also in the nature of the matter – we have a business that needs to compete more with businesses in other countries, as we are a country with a very open economy. We also notice that in the financial crisis we're in. In my reply to the National Audit Office, I have described some of the information we have had, related to integrating the relevant parts of Innovation Norway into the EEAS. I'm not going to repeat those points here, but just show that I recognize that there's still a lot of work to be done. We will continue to pay great attention to this, and of course also look into the evaluation. Then I notice that the Committee believes that questions should be asked about whether Innovation Norway should support more risky projects. It is now known that the scheme called the high-risk scheme under Innovation Norway has just received considerably more money. What the committee here is saying, I'm taking very seriously anyway. It is also natural to review it in the evaluation we are about to carry out. I agree with the Committee that it is positive that Innovation Norway has launched measures to simplify the portfolio of instruments in the company. That's something we're working on all along. I have also noticed that the Committee believes it is important that Innovation Norway pursues more outlying activities. I take that with me too. The Committee notes that 40 letter of assignment and a comprehensive service portfolio can create demanding governance challenges. I agree. Simplification is needed here, and more coordination is needed. We have taken the initiative from the Ministry of Industry and Trade in several different interaction processes. We now have, among other things: fixed procedures for coordination between departments in relation to the schemes of Innovation in Norway, but we can continue to improve in this area. However, I record that the company seems to handle its many clients in a good way. The implementation of the administrative reform on 1 January 2010 will, as you know, total 49 pst. the ownership of Innovation Norway is transferred to the counties. This will also pose an increased challenge for coordination on the part of the owner. I am pleased that the Stortinget agrees that it is useful and proper to evaluate Innovation Norway, and together with the National Audit Office's report, the evaluation will provide us with a good basis for making Innovation Norway an even better tool than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e658	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e674	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e683	The representative proposal we are now considering addresses important questions about the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises, and perhaps especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Competition conditions for Norwegian enterprises are composed of many components and in many cases are influenced by international factors, with which the Storting can do less. It is therefore important that the Storting should do a good job nationally in order to facilitate a competitive business. Of the things we can easily improve, the administrative burdens that companies have to deal with are. In 2006, Norwegian business had SEK 57 billion in administrative costs related to compliance with information requirements in public legislation. There is a significant cost, which in no way contributes to increasing the productivity or profitability of the individual enterprise. Many countries have recognised this challenge for their business and have set concrete targets for reducing the form field. At the same time, they have set strict requirements for the introduction of new reporting requirements, in order not to impair competitiveness. In August 2008, the Government provided its response to a Norwegian solution to reduce the form field, namely the ‘Time for Innovation and Production’ action plan. This contained a number of measures, but no concrete objectives for which cost reduction was sought. The government also chose not to anchor its work in this area in Stortinget, which the proposers are calling for. In addition, the proposers refer to a number of measures that can be implemented to reduce the administrative burden on business. The parties agreed that repeated debates on this issue are important and therefore welcome the proposal. Nevertheless, they relate to the Government's action plan, which they consider to provide the necessary simplification work. I expect the individual parties to explain their views in more detail under their own articles. The Progress Party supports the concerns of the proposers about the government's inflexibility in this area. During the current period of government, we have made a number of proposals to simplify the everyday life of Norwegian businesses and to make the instrument as useful as possible. These proposals have consistently voted against the Government parties, and they have referred to the plan that the Government is working on. So when it first came, it came as an action plan and not as a separate big message. It shows that the Government does not dare to take a real discussion about which objectives should be taken into account in the simplification process. A plan to simplify business life should be so comprehensive and targeted that there is a need for anchoring in Stortinget. When the Government now chooses to run solo races outside the national Parliament, it is clear that the level of ambition is too low. The Progress Party believes that this is an important societal debate which should take place in this Chamber and which should be dealt with by an overall increase. Like many other countries, we should set a target for simplification. Now that a basic survey has been carried out, it should not be difficult to set good measurement parameters for work. At the same time, such a objective may raise the threshold for the introduction of new administrative requirements. The investigation instruction as practised by the Government today does not have the power to evaluate the importance of the information requirement. It is also possible to assess whether the Government's objective of simplification, which is not ambitious in any way, is being properly pursued. Of the 25 actions to be implemented by the end of 2008, only seven have been implemented under the plan. This means that even if the Government included measures that had already been implemented, it was far from fulfilling its own obligations. It shows the importance of an annual follow-up to the plan, which would probably have been adopted if the plan were submitted to Stortinget. In this way, progress would be more ensured in the project, which is necessary. The Progress Party supports the proposers in the references to simplifications in the case which are not included in the Government Action Plan. These proposals include simple solutions that will quickly and efficiently reduce the costs to businesses. The Progress Party believes that these and several other proposals should be examined and, if necessary, included in a plan to reduce the administrative costs of businesses. Finally, I would like to address the proposal promoted by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e709	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e712	In this proposal for a representative, the Government is asked to send a big message on how to reduce the administrative costs of business – despite the fact that last year the government presented an action plan to reduce its administrative costs to businesses. Innovation and production time is the name of the action plan containing more than 120 simplification measures. The starting point for the action plan was a 2007 government survey, which showed that the public charges cost businesses around 57 billion dollars a year, and 70 pst. is bound by the Ministry of Finance’s legislation. The Minister of Industry’s Business Simplification Contact Forum also made a number of useful contributions to the Action Plan, which, in our view, is a powerful expression of the willingness to improve the business environment. The largest single measure is the further development of Altinn. For business, good access to information on public schemes, legislation and information requirements is important in order to ensure good and efficient operation. In the long term, the business community shall be able to adhere to only one portal for all reporting and communication with the administration. It will make the reporting work less labor-intensive, which frees time for production and value creation. I am also pleased to focus on new requirements imposed on business and to make a specific assessment of the benefits and costs of setting out new rules and information requirements. It is also very important that it is assessed on a case-by-case basis whether it is necessary to impose the same requirements on small and medium-sized enterprises as on larger companies. The work of the Government with simplification means most of all for small and medium-sized enterprises that mark such administrative burdens more than large. A lot of innovation and innovation is just happening in smaller businesses. Therefore, the Government's work on creating good framework conditions for these activities is so important for the creation of value. There are many governments that have set themselves the goal of bringing this form field to life. When Sponheim was Minister of Industry, he went high on the track in this area, but when he left as a government council, there were more forms than when he took up. The Minister of Industry's letter to the Committee, which takes stock of current work, shows that there is now a major effort to follow up this action plan. It promises good for all the businesses around the country. I think it's positive that several parties are busy reducing the cost of businesses. The proposers also want to terminate the new conversion law. I would like to remind you that the purpose of that law is to reduce negative impacts on the community and for them to add when it comes to shutting down an enterprise at the same time as a success in the same enterprise's ability to convert. With the financial crisis and the uncertainty that many people feel now, I think it's very good to have a law about closures. I think it will make it safer and better both for the companies and for them to add. We are in many ways some of the targets, simply to ensure more time for innovation and production. What we disagree about is that there should be a big message about the matter. The majority think that here is the practical work and a red-green government that wants to implement the action plan, which is to be implemented. I recommend that the Committee reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e733	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for the work he has done and for a good presentation of the matter. Every year, the economy spends a great deal of time on complying with the information requirements of public legislation. The current Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, Børge Brende, therefore launched a survey project in 2005 to find out the overall size of these costs and to break them down at ministerial level. The Stoltenberg government has followed up this work, engaged external consultants, and last year there was a report on the table that showed that unimaginable SEK 57 billion each year is used by business for this purpose, similar to the over 2.6 pst. of gross domestic product. There is no doubt that reporting costs at this level are a significant cost in terms of competitiveness, value added and jobs in Norway. When the form field costs NOK 57 billion, it does not have to make a large percentage of the reduction in order for it to actually become a monk for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian entrepreneurs. We politicians often use large and small numbers of each other in the debates, and it is difficult to imagine relative sizes in business policy. In this context, I would like to point to another important industrial policy issue, at least for the non-socialist side, namely the removal of the wealth tax on working capital in enterprises. The cost of proceeds in the State budget by removing all this tax on working capital in enterprises is only 10 pst. of the cost of the state form fields. So we can just cut the form field by 10 pst. in the course of four years, there is an improvement in the competitiveness of enterprises corresponding to the whole of this tax on working capital. Some countries around us have far greater objectives than this. That's going to cut the cost by 25 pst. But unfortunately, the Stoltenberg government has no such ambitions for the simplification work. When the Minister of Industry presented his action plan ‘Time for innovation and production’, the plan did not contain long-term or short-term objectives. It did not even include an attempt to estimate the impact of the measures contained in the plan. I therefore think it is a bit funny that the representative Gunvor Eldegard boasts of this action plan. The action plan is like putting the VM at the height of the jump, but insisting that the list be put on the lowest mark. The government boasts that the plan contains 126 measures. However, there is not the number of measures involved, it is about the sum of the impact that these measures actually have on business. I believe that it will be a logical follow-up to the monitoring work that has been carried out, to use the information – which has been broken down at department level and at each and every law and regulation – to make concrete targets in the field by area and then work to simplify these areas. So the government should periodically, for example: in the context of the State budget, report on the relative position of these objectives. If ambition is safer jobs and increased value creation, this is clearly the way to go. I would particularly like to point out that simplification is important for small and medium-sized enterprises and that it is very important for start-up enterprises. It should be unnecessary to mention it, but we are in the midst of a financial crisis where many lose their jobs. At that time it must be a minimum for the Government and the authorities to set up an unbureaucratic arrangement for the establishment of a new business. In business, it has now become a very clear trend for small and medium-sized enterprises to organise themselves in so-called NUFs, Norwegian-registered non-resident enterprises. This form of company offers clear benefits in terms of capital requirements and audit obligations. I think it is in principle important that the form of the limited liability company is accessible to entrepreneurs, and in particular to entrepreneurs starting from a tough starting point, which unemployment actually is. It is obvious that the current Share Act is demanding. At the same time, it is unfortunate that many are exposed to a risky industrial activity in their entire private economy. Therefore, the NUFs are a pitiful option for many. But it is also obvious that the NUF provides for tax evasion, money laundering, social security fraud and other financial crimes. I think it is very important that the Government in today's situation does not fall first and best proposal from the administration to tighten the legislation for the NUF and thus increase the form field, but on the contrary choose a different strategy and create a Norwegian share law that is competitive with the NUF. Simplification considerations should be given priority when concluding on the issue of audit obligations. Priority should also be given to the simplification approach and to the retention requirements for book-keeping annexes. The Swedish have a clearly more offensive approach to simplification than Norway. This may be a natural consequence of having a civil government in Sweden that is more concerned with jobs and value creation, while we have a social democratic government that increases regulation and the fight against economic crime. I think we should learn from the Swedes when it comes to simplification. They have clear ambitions. They have their own rules. They facilitate the audit obligation, and they work with many other measures. In the EU, there is now a new stock law for small enterprises, with no requirements for large amounts of equity. Unfortunately, part of the government's commitment to businesses and jobs says that the simplification work is free of objectives. It is free of major and effective measures, and it is free of issues for Stortinget. Therefore, it is positive, now six months before the elections, that an overall opposition supports the Right-wing proposal for a big-scale communication on simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e759	99 pst. by enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises. Small businesses make up a big part, and they're very important. In small businesses, owners are active. They participate in day-to-day operations, in production, etc., and there will be little time and little capacity to adapt to a sometimes complicated legislation. This is for the most part a venerable human being who wants to comply with laws, rules, regulations, requirements, etc., but the time just didn't go on. This is the background for the Christian People's Party to the proposal that we have to get a big message on how to get a reasonable simplification of requirements for small businesses, so that they have the opportunity to live with and to comply with the legislation. There are many things that should have been seen in such a big message. I can refer to summary: the removal of the property tax on working capital a conditional exemption from the generational inheritance tax on family enterprises a share law adapted to small enterprises the abolition of the audit obligation for small companies various simplification measures under the VAT law exemption from the obligation to provide business tasks for enterprises with limited turnover, etc. The whole purpose is, of course, to improve living and survival conditions for small enterprises – because we need these enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e789	Regardless of our political position – whether we are local politicians, regional politicians or central politicians – we have a responsibility to focus on society being less complicated and difficult for someone to give up on their own business precisely because of the problem of bureaucracy and form fields. We live in a complicated society, and there are a lot of reasons to take. Nevertheless, we must not be so eager for reporting or completing forms that this feels inconvenient to people who want to start a business or their own workplace. Small businesses and entrepreneurs are often hit extra hard by the form field. Therefore, we need to focus on, as many people have been concerned about, that we need to make everyday life easier for just these companies by removing unnecessary laws and regulations and simplifying reporting through, for example, use of Internet-based solutions. In addition, the left wishes to give the self-employed the option of choosing a deduction in line with and to the extent that ordinary workers are entitled to a deduction. The left also believes that the number of deductions in general should be limited. The most targeted deductions will be large deductions or minimum deductions which take into account the existence of, for various reasons, expenditure which may be considered as expenditure on the acquisition of income and which are therefore not taxed. Self-employed persons must document all expenditure which is deducted from taxable income. Too many people are involved in a lot of small costs. They collect patches and often hand them over to the accounting office, which takes hours to sum up all these small expenses. We have to make it easier through a bottom subtraction – where you can merge – and even if we know that it's not going to be millimeter justice, I think society in total saves money anyway. Small enterprises must show respect and honor and no more forms and administrative costs. As many from individual parties have been involved, there are many good proposals to simplify the situation for small businesses. This applies to the simplified share law for small enterprises, including, inter alia: the removal of the audit obligation. It is to reduce the size of the share capital, reduce fees and report to the Brøn Island Health Registers and reduce the number of tax semesters. In addition, it should also be made easier to employ number two in a single person undertaking. It is often easy to manage your own business when you are alone, but it is a threshold to go to the step of recruiting others and getting employers' responsibility. This must be made as simple and smooth as possible. I am not going to address the difference between workers and entrepreneurs in terms of social rights, but here we need to work continuously to correct the imbalances. There must not be such a difference in pay, work and leisure between a worker and a worker that it is not relevant for many to start their own business. We're going to lose a total of that as a welfare society. Then I registered that the representative Torbjørn Hansen was involved with property taxes, and the left fully agrees that there is a strange tax that must be worked continuously to reduce it. I remember with pleasure when it was a minority government from the Workers' Party and we negotiated a budget for approx. 10 years ago. Then we got the investment fee removed in a few hours at the hotel Plaza. I thought that was a good job. I have not registered afterwards that there is someone who will have reintroduced the investment fee. So good things happen even in minority governments. Not least, such governments are influential for good suggestions just from this house, where democracy should have its seat. Finally, I want to focus on the fact that the agencies that are going to provide services to businesses are easily accessible, service-oriented and provide communications that make people who are in contact easy to access. The proposal for a roll-out message seems to the Left to be good. In this way, we insist that it is to make it as simple as possible in the form field, and as simple as possible in the everyday life of Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e815	Last August, when I presented the Action Plan ‘Time for innovation and production’, it was the result of extensive work in 14 departments. I hear representatives from both the Right and the Advance Party say from this pulpit that this government has no ambitions and is eager. I even belonged to the representative Hansen to suggest something in the direction that this government did not do much to combat unemployment, and referred to Sweden. Now it is probably the case that right-wing Sweden has greater challenges in that area – mildly said – than we do. It may be due to several things, but at least it's not right that this government is not doing absolutely what it can to deal with the financial crisis and keep as many people at work as possible, and not least to create new businesses. I fully agree that in that work it is of great importance that companies spend time on the enterprise should spend time on: operating with value creation, producing, selling their goods – and minimum time on unnecessary forms. I feel that we all agree on that. The job that the Government is doing in this area is useful. The government's simplification work saved business for more than 230 years in 2008. This is the second largest decline since the measurement started in 1998. These are the numbers from the Brønnøsund registers, which show that the time spent by industry in reporting to the public decreased by about 230 years ago. Much of this decrease is due to the fact that large parts of the sole proprietor's tax return were pre-filled for the first time. It's seamsily good. This shows that the tool for which the Stortinget has granted money, namely Altinn, works, and we have to make it even better. We are, on the part of the Government, maritimely engaged in showing progress in the work we are doing. Therefore, before the summer, we will present a status for the simplification work. We will report on the progress of all the actions proposed in the action plan. In addition, we will present a report showing how the administrative costs of business have evolved between the measurement points on 1 September 2006 and 1 September 2009. I announced, as we know in the big news of innovation, as I presented in December, that we are going to create a business policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a strategy to promote innovation and research, including: with a view to strengthening the foreign position of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no doubt that simplification and reduction of administrative costs will be a central theme and element of this strategy, because administrative requirements are demanding, it costs more, and it is usually more demanding for small enterprises than for larger ones. For this reason, I also believe that we need to assess more clearly the differentiation between small and medium-sized enterprises and the large enterprises. International developments in business simplification show that electronic public services are an important part of the solution for reducing administrative costs. What we have already done with the Altinn web portal arouses interest far beyond the borders of Norway. But we're going to get even better. We therefore aim to reach both long-term and heavy levels of leadership in electronic management in Norway. Very important in this work was the allocation of well over 200 million. kr from Stortinget to further develop this website now in autumn. The aim of simplification is to significantly reduce costs. That's how I see it, an ambitious goal. As we remeasure the burden on business, we need to look at the legislation and measures that reduce costs and the factors and regulatory areas that may have increased costs. So we have to put the bump where it means the most in this work. We are looking forward to getting the results of this up-to-date measurement, and we believe and hope that the overall result will show a reduction in the administrative costs for business beyond what I have explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e841	I would like to refer to the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee on 21 November 2008, which comments on the proposalers' requests for 10 p.m. reduction of administrative costs. The Council of State shall: ‘If a measure is to be set, the Government has not yet taken a decision. Before we set a target, we will analyse what opportunities actually exist to reduce the costs associated with administrative arrangements in legislation.’ This is a little surprising, because I thought that was the basis for the action plan – i.e. what opportunities you had to reduce costs. But I'm going to give the council another chance, because this letter is four months old. The Government has now arrived at a concrete measure in terms of simplification, and when will they possibly bring it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e854	We want to know a lot more about where we stand when we get the updated report before the summer of this year. I believe that a significant reduction in administrative costs is an ambitious target. I also believe that the last numbers we have from the Brønnøsund registers show that they are useful. So it is not that we have closed the door in order to be able to set more specific targets related to numbers at some point, but I believe it is important that we have behind us the report we get before the summer, before we evaluate it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e861	I will first give the Government the honor to follow up the screening work that former Minister of Industry Børge Burnde announced in 2005. I believe that the screening work has provided a good basis for further work. But what's the big question, about which I think the opposition is assembled, is what the government means by significant ambitions for simplification. State councils were just satisfied with 230 years of less work in business form follow-up. I've done a little bit of math: 230 years times 600,000 is 138 million. kr, which is 0,24 pst. of the 57 billion that the form field costs business. In other words, it is a marginal simplification compared to the total cost of the business form. The government has presented an action plan of 126 actions. What is the real objective of simplification with these 126 measures? Where should Norway be in 10 years' time with regard to a percentage reduction in business form costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e870	Firstly, I do not agree with Mr Hansen that what we have already stated is marginal. We are not in the target, we can quickly agree on that, but nevertheless a decrease of 230 annual works in one year is a significant improvement. I also believe that the representative Hansen and I can quickly agree that simplifying is not the easiest thing to do, because rules are adopted all the time, and you have to be careful not to take other things into account. I think we have many interesting proposals that can help us to simplify further. Much of it's about further developing Altin, as the business community says, is one of the most important tools. In addition, there are many other good suggestions that I know that both the Party of Hansen and others have on the table, so we get plenty of opportunity to come back to that. We believe it is important that we make sure that companies spend the time they have to do. We believe that we have created an action plan that points forward in that respect, and we will make further proposals once we have received the report on the table before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e879	As a follow-up to it, the Minister of Industry just said that a reduction of 230 years' work was significant. It is 0,2 pst. of the business form field. This means that this government is satisfied if you have a reduction in the form field of 0.2 pst next year. as a result of the action plan presented by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e884	There's a lot of ways to think about it. I hear the representative Hansen rains in one way. I can only see that what happened last year in terms of annual decline is the biggest decline since 1998. Very well known, the party Right has also had government responsibility in the meantime. I think we should go much further than the results we can already refer to, and I think we should. I believe that we are doing well with the race that is now on the table, and with the proposals we are going to make in terms of both budgets and other things, which will give the Storting ample opportunity to discuss and hopefully adopt simplifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e891	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e909	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e918	The local store is an important meeting place that often has a more extensive function than just providing the local population and other access to groceries. The strategy for many building shops is to get more bones to stand on, and many offer a wide range of ancillary services. The proposers point out that shops offering ancillary services from State monopolies have gained a competitive advantage over other retail outlets and that this leads to an unintended distortion of competition. Not all shops that want to offer game products from Norwegian Typing are allowed to do this, and Norwegian Typing has a number of criteria for the selection of new commissioners. The wine monopoly online store offers cargo-free shipping and delivery of goods to customers in municipalities without wine monopoly sales. This is done in the light of a framework agreement between the Vinmonopolet and Posten of 1994. This implies that the retail stores with Post in Store in such municipalities receive an additional competitive advantage, by also acting as wine and spirits sales in addition to postal services. The proposers envisage avoiding distortions of competition by allowing Norwegian retail outlets to offer wine monopoly services of the same model as Post in Butikk, and that the proposal should cover any other retail outlet, including gas stations and large kiosks. Right-wing agrees that building stores need more legs to survive in competition with malls. It is therefore important to allow them to provide a wide range of services. We also see clearly that shops offering ancillary services from state monopolies have a competitive advantage over other retail outlets. However, the proposals cannot be supported by the right, which means that all retail outlets who wish to do so will have the opportunity to offer Norwegian Typing gaming services and operate ‘minipol’ in all food shops, gas stations and kiosks. In reply to the Committee of State Council Sylvia Brustad dated 27 November 2008, the following is highlighted: ‘The requirements for rational operation make Norwegian Typing’s own business assessments the basis for the choice of commissioners. It is beyond the purpose of Norwegian Typing to use Commission status as a purely district policy instrument. Norwegian Typing, however, is dedicated to providing good service to its players in the districts. Therefore, the company takes into account district considerations when it is possible to ensure sound business conduct.’;» The letter also indicates that Norwegian alcohol policy is largely based on accessibility-restrictive measures at population level, and that a system similar to Post in Store for the sale of alcoholic beverages would not be compatible with the monopoly system. The right considers that one cannot ignore the fact that the criteria for the right to become a tipper commissioner may result in unintended distortive effects and that there may therefore be grounds to take a closer look at those criteria. On that basis, the Progress Party, Right and Left asked the Government to come back to the Stortingen with a case to open up the Commission network to actors other than Norwegian Tipping AS, to propose a full review of the framework conditions for the operation of lotteries and changes to the Lottery Act in order to ensure better exploitation of the potential of the lottery activities. I would nevertheless point out that the Right believes Norsk Tipping must still be able to base business assessments on the choice of commissioner. While alcohol is a legal remedy, the Right considers that social policy considerations need to be considered in the formulation of this policy. It is clear that Norwegian alcohol policy has helped to keep the total consumption of alcohol and alcohol-related harm at a more moderate level than in other European countries. At the same time, the right will underline the importance of municipal freedom and local responsibility for alcohol policy, and that the abolition of alcohol policy requires reasonable availability for the purchase of alcoholic goods throughout the country. A number of smaller municipalities stand without their own pole, which they will not be able to expect for lack of profitability. Right wants to help these municipalities get an offer of ‘minipol’ in the store in line with Post in Store, and we therefore promote the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to arrange a pole at the store in municipalities without its own pole.’ The right also considers it important to have an overall national gambling policy. At the same time, it is important that local authorities have a significant freedom within a national framework, whereby each municipality is given greater influence over gambling policy within its borders. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e958	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e961	Preventing discrimination and distortions of competition between local shops at the right-hand end of the street. But what the representatives from the Progress Party are proposing here is to open the Minipol in grocery stores, and all local stores that want to do so will have the opportunity to offer Norwegian Typing their gaming services. In many communities, it is important that we help them to survive. For this reason, the Ministry of Local and Regional Development is its development programme for rural shops, MERKUR, a good measure. This programme shall facilitate the maintenance of a quality service provision in the districts through the further development and strengthening of existing service provision. A good store in the community is worth a lot, and he often has a key role in society. Norwegian Typing is busy providing good service to its district players. And even if the company takes over districts if the concern for a defence business allows for that, it is beyond the purpose of Norsk Tipping to use the Commission's status as a purely district policy tool. But a number of commissioners have e.g. This is the subject of the MERKUR programme. And we have noticed that the Minister of Culture has asked Norwegian Tipping to consider whether sales requirements for Commissioners can be nuanced ‘if the interest in the availability and channelling of people’s gaming needs indicates it’. But we cannot support a liquidation of the Norwegian gaming monopoly. The Norwegian gaming monopoly we have through Norwegian Typing, according to the Labour Party's view, is very central to preventing the negative consequences of gambling. It also has an important role to play in financing local sporting and cultural activities. We cannot support the proposal of minipol in grocery stores either. Drug use is a serious social problem, and harms drug use and addiction are common to many. Alcohol is the drug that today leads to most disease, most deaths and accidents. We have to work to prevent alcohol problems seriously, and the Vinmonopolet is an alcohol policy tool supported by the Workers’ Party. The wine monopoly system also limits access to alcohol, which in our view is important. A system corresponding to Post in Store for the sale of alcohol will not comply with this monopoly system. In order to improve access to Polet’s services on a national basis, a remote-salary system has been established, allowing residents of municipalities without a wine monopoly to receive goods sent free of charge. The testing scheme currently in progress with nine branches with a limited range and opening hours is probably one example of how the Government makes it possible for the Vinmonopolet services to be as similar as possible on a national basis. Finally, I would recommend the recommendation from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Left and the Christian People's Party that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e976	I hear that the representative from the Workers' Party sees the importance of the nearby store. The sitting government has meant a lot about the small communities, and it has meant a lot about light in the windows. It would shine everywhere, yes, water would come in the swimming pools, but the tools were missing. The measures needed to achieve what is thought to be important to strengthen small communities are not being implemented. Does the red-green government mean anything about its district policy? The majority write in a note how important it is with the local store and that it is important that the local store has a wide range of offers. The whole comment I think is very good, but there is no content, there is no proposal, and there are no instruments. So the closest thing to be done is this comment, but with the proposal from the Progress Party you can move on. The proposal has some of the tools to develop small communities in the countryside. The local store is an important meeting place that often has more extensive functions than just providing the local population and other access to groceries. The strategy for many retail shops is to get more legs to stand on, and many offer a wide range of ancillary services. The nearby store is today's skystation, with pharmacies, municipal service offices, bakery and tipping. It is also common for the store to provide postal services and sell fishing licenses, hunting licenses and other local products, and petrol. But you don't want a pole at the store. There comes the scepticism from the other parties in this room, but alcohol is actually a legal product in Norway. Shops in small communities have, in line with other shops, been marked by major changes and major reorganization. The proximity shop has an important role to play in involving the population and the community. This applies in particular to the smallest shops and shops with a wide range of services to their customers, which have placed greater emphasis on the community perspective. It turns out they're doing well. Customer surveys say that customers see the local store as a very important point of contact for the population in the village. Yes, many believe that the local store is more important than the school in order to keep people living in the countryside. Very many shoppers experience that more services and larger offerings to customers help to strengthen the basis for their store to survive. Another challenge is that those shops that provide ancillary services from state monopolies have a competitive advantage over other local stores, and I believe this is an accidental distortion of competition. The representative proposal from the Progress Party shows that the strategy of many of the building stores is to get more legs to stand on, which I have been through in the past, and that many therefore offer a wide range of services and goods. The proposal suggests that the Government opens up the possibility for local stores to offer Norwegian Typing gaming services, and that the Government also investigates a system of ‘mini-pol’ in food shops, based on the Post-Shop success model. Who thought ten years ago that a merchant in a town in Norway would handle postal services and become the local postmaster? It works. The authorities should provide for an equivalent level of competition for the retail outlets. This is a form of distortion of competition that affects many local stores. Another example is the practice of today's system of Post in Store, where these shops also act as wine and spirits sales following an agreement on shipping and the delivery of goods between Posten and Vinmonopolet. I believe that this distortion of competition could be avoided by allowing Norwegian local shops to offer wine monopoly services according to the same model as Post in Butikk. Some of us, and some of you sitting in the hall, have been at Svalbard, and there we see that the cooperative has a pole in the store that works very well. I would like to raise the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e995	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e998	The Christian People's Party is in charge of this matter, with the government party in charge of not supporting the proposal, and I will give it a very brief reason. Firstly, the Christian People's Party cannot support a proposal where the course is against the liquidation of the Norwegian gaming monopoly. In addition, Norwegian Typing's operations may indicate that it is not desirable for shops to be able to provide gaming services automatically. Secondly, the monopoly of wine is a central instrument for reducing the adverse effects of alcohol use. This is the most important instrument available to the State to pursue its alcohol policy. The Christian People's Party cannot therefore support a proposal that would undermine the position of the Vinmonopole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1007	The left wants as much as possible a level playing field for businesses, whether they are local shops or other establishments. In this matter, I would like to stress the importance of having a national gambling policy as a whole. At the same time, local authorities shall have significant freedom within a national framework. Each municipality must be given greater influence over gambling policy within its borders. In the same way that a municipality can decide in which form beer is to be sold, a municipality must also have significant influence over vending machines – where to place them, who to be commissioner, etc. This presupposes that each municipality develops a comprehensive game policy plan, just as the municipalities today have an alcohol policy plan and plans for e.g. the physical environment of the municipality. The guiding principle of the Left's approach to gambling policy is that public policy establishes a sound balance between control and freedom for citizens. I believe that one of the main problems with today's game policy is the lack of holistic thinking. Many of the elements of gambling policy are seen as being detached from a wider context and then dealt with. That is why it is right that the case-rapporteur, Mr Røbekk Nørve, mentioned in his speech, that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, at last year's budgetary procedure, put forward proposals to look at a comprehensive review of Norwegian gambling policy and future challenges related to it. We should not underestimate that gambling addiction is a growing problem in today's society, and therefore Norwegian Typing and others who have turnover from all kinds of gambling should also pay an annual amount to tackle gambling addiction. The guidelines for gambling addicts have received a growing number of enquiries in recent years and, in the opinion of the Left, are one of the measures that should be strengthened. I would also point out in this case that many smaller places in Norway do not have wine monopoly sales despite the fact that the municipalities want such sales. It is therefore the view of the Left that municipalities themselves must have greater influence and decide whether or not they want such an alcohol sale. The wine monopoly started a testing scheme in the summer of 2007 by establishing nine branches. It was sales with limited area, limited range and limited opening time. This scheme shall be evaluated by the Vinmonopolet and SIRUS. The left expects the Government to provide the evaluation to the Storting in an appropriate manner when it is available. Should the testing system prove to be working well, it should become a permanent system allowing municipalities without a wine monopoly to open such branches. Then, of course, we get the debate on increased availability and increased consumption. It's obvious that this is the case, but I've never been able to see a difference between a resident who lives in a big city or in a dense place, and a resident who lives in a district municipality – that there's a greater need for a resident in a district municipality to be spared such offers than if you live elsewhere. So it's time to reconsider attitudes in this particular area, while at the same time working for prevention measures also in the case of alcohol damage. Finally, I would just like to mention that we are in the majority vote on the draft document.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1024	The government is committed to facilitating retail shops and contributing to non-discrimination and equal competition. Norwegian Typing is currently part of a well-known commissioner's agreement with shops that have such high turnover that the Commission's contract would be economically beneficial to the gambling company. In addition, the MERKUR programme makes it possible to enter into a Commission agreement with some local retail outlets in smaller locations, while the proximity shop initially has too low sales to be considered. If Norwegian Typing were to be required to enter into commission contracts with shops where the contract would be economically unfavourable, this would in practice mean that Norwegian Typing subsidizes the local store at the expense of the company's profits. This surplus is distributed as known to sports, culture and social organisations. It is against this background that the Government does not support the proposal that all retail outlets who wish to do so should be able to provide Norwegian Typing gaming services. When Norwegian Typing enters into a commissioner's agreement, the company undertakes to invest in equipment and materials as well as to provide training for the staff in the store. If any of the local stores that wanted to do so could require a commissioner, this part of the agreement would also have significant consequences for Norwegian Typing's profits. It is beyond the purpose of Norwegian Typing to use Commission status as a purely district policy instrument. Nor does Norwegian Tipping currently have the right to subsidise local retail shops directly or indirectly through unprofitable Commission agreements. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee that such a system should not be introduced at the expense of Norwegian Tipping's profits for sport, culture and social and humanitarian organisations. The monopoly of wine is our main means of limiting access to alcohol. Research shows that the monopoly limits turnover and thus also the health damage to alcohol. The Government does not support the proposal to allow Norwegian retail shops to offer wine monopoly services similar to Post in the Butikk scheme, also because this would not be compatible with the current wine monopoly regime. However, when I was Minister of Health and Care, we decided that it should be assessed, as the representative of Kongshaug explained here, whether the municipalities that want to have wine monopoly sales – or so-called minipol, as it would be too many municipalities – should not be allowed to do so, and that was on the basis that we tried out nine branches. The first one was opened in Solution in 2007, and that's what's now to be evaluated. The goal of this was to make it more accessible to larger sections of the population, including those parts of the country where there are many miles to the nearest pole, but that it should be in controlled, legal forms. This is now the government's job, but then it's going to be in charge of the Vinmonopole, and with what's going on with it. Then it's also important to be clear in the debate on sales in ordinary shops that it won't be, as we see it now, the commercial basis in absolutely all municipalities. Setting up sales which do not cover their own costs will also involve subsidising alcohol by the State. That's why it's not desirable, as we see from the Regeninga, to open up gas stations and kiosks to sell alcohol. It shall be carried out in controlled forms with much more pole sales around the country through the Vinmonopole. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the proposals we are discussing today are subject to other government councils, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Health and Care, respectively, who are responsible for these issues. That is why I have discussed this with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1054	I pointed out in my post the distortion of competition with Post in Store. Now, the Post Norway must give its opinion to ESA following allegations of possible anti-competitive behaviour from Post Norway with Post in Butikk. What is the opinion of the Council of State on the claim made against Posten Norway? And what consequences can this have for the Post Norway when the case is lost in ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1059	I am asking for an understanding that I do not know all the details about the Post Norway and any outcomes in ESA, as this is not my subject, we do not know that yet. The government is very much in favour of local stores, but that's not the way we can use them, for example. The wine monopoly or Norwegian Typing, which has a slightly different purpose, as a suitable tool to support those who are not profitable. When it comes to the specific question, I have to pass it on to the responsible State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1064	I note that the Council of State is very concerned about the costs of Norwegian Typing by allowing everyone who wants to do so to have the opportunity to operate as commissioner for Norwegian Typing. Then it might be interesting if the Council of State explained what the costs are for each individual by introducing into one place. And doesn't the Council of State see that there is a high potential for increased revenues for Norwegian Typing, because more people get the opportunity to operate with this kind of turnover? It is positive for Norwegian Tipping, but it is also ensured that there is a level playing field between shops in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1069	The government is for us to have the same level of competition as possible. But what we can't join in, is to oblige Norwegian Tipping to go in with commissioner agreements in shops where it doesn't pay, because it will be at the expense of the money we distribute to sports, etc., which the representative Hoksrud has been told to know well. There is no way through Norwegian Typing today. There is no doubt that there may be more shops coming under this scheme, but we do not know that we use ‘unprofitable’ shops – I would almost say – for this. We don't want to go into that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1074	I record that the Council of State will not answer my question, and my question is simply: what is the cost of introducing this into one store, and what is the total cost of Norwegian Typing? Have you received any calculations that show that this is not profitable for Norwegian Typing in total? So far, the Council of State has not responded. It is quite essential to know: what is the cost of introducing this in one place, and what is the total cost of Norwegian Typing? And what is the potential for actually extracting income from Norwegian Typing, and income from Norwegian cultural life and Norwegian sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1079	I am asking for an understanding that I do not know all the details of this. It is the Minister of Culture who is responsible for this. What we are asked to decide today is whether we want to allow Norwegian Typing to also enter into commissioning agreements in places where they believe it is not profitable. That's what we recommended to say no to, and to which I understand the majority subscribe. Then I'll make sure that the Minister of Culture gives the representative Hoksrud all the details he wants, both about costs and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1084	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1102	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1111	The size shall then be used for the examination of Document No. 8:13 for 2008-2009, where the party representatives Øyvind Korsberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Kåre Fostervold advocate a strategy to strengthen the active private ownership of Norway. This is a fundamental issue in Norwegian industrial policy, especially at a time of recession and economic challenges for many enterprises. Unfortunately, for many years Norway has been pursuing a policy that weakens private ownership and increases public ownership and foreign ownership. It is obvious that the absence of many and strong private ownership environments in Norway is a disadvantage in creating growth, value creation, new jobs and the welfare of the future. That is why I will give all credit to the Progress Party to re-examine this issue. It is also very positive that an overall opposition requires a strategy for private active ownership and a review and modernisation of the current framework conditions and instruments. The Minister of Economic Affairs recently invited central business actors and executives in enterprises in which the State owns, various advisers and politicians to the annual ownership seminar. The title was: «Time for a more operational ownership?» The seminar offered lectures by three active private owners, Kim Wahl from Industri Kapital, Elisabeth Grieg from Grieg International and Tor Olav Truim, among others. Member of the Executive Board of Frontline. These lectures described how active private owners engage heavily in the operational part of the businesses, in strategy and in management. Especially in times of crisis, this is important, because then it is like being or not being too many businesses and their employees. I thought it was a very good seminar. But what for me was also quite obvious after attending this seminar, is that the state is not such an operating owner. The State cannot become such an operating owner. It is in the nature of the matter that neither the Council of State nor the Ministry can be specialists in what is happening on the ground in the establishments owned by the State. I don't want them to be either. But then the question of whether the directors appointed by the State contribute to such active, operational ownership. I share Tor Olav Troum's judgements, that this rarely gets heavy enough. Enterprises need owners who are private, directly involved in governance, and who care about strategy and results in a completely different way from a public owner can do. That was the conclusion I reached after the government's excellent conference of ownership. The conference confirmed very clearly that Norwegian business needs a more active private ownership. So the government parties in the setting say that private business is very important, and there is evidence that a diversity of ownership is necessary. However, I think it is striking how the government parties avoid referring to the private owner, and avoid getting into the fact that private ownership accounts for 70 pst. of the value added in Norway. But it may not be strange – with the policy of the Government in terms of private ownership, which appears to be that private ownership should be minimised by taxes on wealth. Even in the midst of the financial crisis, the Government chooses to increase the tax on working capital in Norwegian companies. Both the taxes on wealth on working capital and the inheritance tax on generation change in family businesses are being increased in 2009, although many of these enterprises are actually fighting every day to survive and to avoid lay-offs and redundancies. This shows that the government really does not like private companies and private owners. It is not understood, or refused to admit, that there is a clear link between strong enterprises, private ownership and safe Norwegian jobs. Document No The 8 proposal mentions a number of measures that can strengthen private business. It is about taxes, forms, competition policy, start-up schemes and access to capital. These are policies that are addressed in various contexts. Among other things, we dealt with a case of simplification of forms now instead. I think it is very important that the Stortinget and the Government are clear about private ownership in Norway. Norwegian entrepreneurs compete with many foreign companies from day to day. It's free movement of capital. It is important for Norwegian enterprises, for Norwegian workers and for value creation in Norway that we facilitate the success of the companies. It is a paradox that this government has increased the taxes by DKK 11 billion compared to the last draft budget of the previous government, and that competitiveness has deteriorated every year since Stoltenberg took over. At a time of increasing unemployment, this appears to be a very strange and misguided policy. I am pleased that an overall opposition is behind the proposal in the vote on a strategy to strengthen private active ownership, promoted by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1134	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1137	For the Workers' Party, work and value creation are central. We must create to be able to share. The basic objectives of industrial policy are to ensure high employment, low unemployment and high value creation. Economic policy is something that this government prioritises, which is not least important in the troubled times we now have. The struggle to secure jobs is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Representatives from the Progress Party ask the Government to submit a strategy to strengthen private Norwegian ownership. They also believe that there must be a modernisation of the current framework conditions and of the instrumentation. We are some in that private ownership is important. In my view, we must have a lack of ownership in the companies in order to continue to have a competitive and dynamic business life in this country, which we are totally dependent on to sustain our high welfare. We have to have both private and state-owned, national and foreign owners in our companies. Innovation and entrepreneurship often occur in an interaction between private and public capital and with the support of the instrumentation. In our Norwegian mixed economy, the state owns a relatively large proportion of the total share capital. In the debate on ownership and on what and how much the country should own, the political divisions are clearly evident. The Labour Party wants the State to be an active, long-term and senior owner of key Norwegian companies. I record that there are actually more people who believe in state ownership now than it was before the financial crisis. People see that the market has clear weaknesses and that state ownership has its clear advantages. But we don't disagree with the fact that the private owners need to ensure good framework conditions. Many small and medium-sized enterprises account for about two thirds of employment and for over half of business turnover. Private owners and family businesses are in many ways the mainstay of our business. For this reason, it is so important that we have a government that pursues a policy that facilitates the development of a right to the future and innovative business and good, stable and sustainable framework conditions for both businesses, entrepreneurs and those added. Access to risk capital, establishment schemes and measures to overcome the form field are elements that the Progress Party draws up in its proposal. All of these are important things that are already part of the Government's industrial policy. So I notice that representatives from the Progress Party are raising the tax as a big problem. I also notice that the previous speaker, from the Right, had the wealth tax as the solution to most things. A recent study by Synovate among over 500 business leaders shows that research, innovation and education are the most important issues for business. The same leaders clearly show that lower taxes and taxes are completely insignificant compared to investment in research. It might give both the Progress Party and the Right something to think about. This government has increased the rights of nutrition research into its budget by more than 40 pst. since the government change. In addition, all the extra rights that are part of the crisis package that Stortingnet has agreed to and that has also been greatly disrupted by business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1158	Let me start by commending the case rapporteur for a well-worked job. There is an overall opposition behind the proposal in the case. A variety of ownership in Norwegian business is important. Stakeholders must be provided with framework conditions that make it attractive to initial investment and further development. Unfortunately, there is little attention in Norway to the state and competitiveness of private active ownership in Norwegian business. Unfortunately, the government’s focus in recent years has largely been on increased state and active ownership. Most of the value creation takes place in privately owned enterprises. It is therefore important to focus attention on the framework conditions of these enterprises in a globalised economy. The Progress Party believes that we have the resources and competence to provide Norwegian companies with world-class framework conditions that underpin further growth and new start-ups. This means that long-term and clear framework conditions must be developed which provide the basis for initial investment and for new products to be put into production in Norway. In order to achieve this, it may be necessary for the State to make available its resources in areas where the market will not take risks. The Party considers that the task of the public instrument should be to provide assistance and guidance to the best ideas and that external considerations should not hinder business start-ups. Today’s situation is marked by political idiosyncrasies dominating innovation work, which becomes the wrong focus when the country shouts for new jobs. For the Progress Party, the potential of the idea should be crucial to trigger financial and administrative support, and not other specific policy objectives. In addition to the aid that can be provided by the State in the start-up phase, capital access for business is also necessary in a further development phase. In Norway, there is little private risk capital due to a tax system that does not stimulate investments in business start-up. The international financial turmoil weakens access to risk capital, and the most vulnerable are enterprises in the seed and early growth phase. Fortunately, Norway is in a special position, as we have a lot of capital on book. The Progress Party believes that some of this capital should be put into public-private cooperation in order to strengthen the Norwegian risk capital market. This can be done through the creation of new funds, organised by means of a fund-in-fund solution, which will also trigger more private risk capital. The form field and the scope of legislation are a major problem for business. This is especially true for smaller enterprises that have to respond to the same tasks as the large ones and that, with less resources, spend more time on forms and rules. A survey shows that the costs of complying with the public reporting requirement are 57 billion kroner. This is mentioned earlier here in the hall. We believe that the Government, together with industry, should make proposals for a binding reduction in this form load. Norwegian companies have to take into account in their calculations that Norwegian taxes and taxes are at the top of the world. This means that it is very difficult to compete in an international arena, which inhibits business start-ups. It is also apparent in financial times that the number of Norwegian companies in bankruptcy is alarmingly high. The situation is particularly dramatic in the case of excise duties, which have an arbitrary effect and have significant social effects. These excise duties, which are significant, include, inter alia: taxes on energy, such as the taxes on petrol and diesel. Furthermore, the inheritance tax is a tax that is a significant problem for many family-owned enterprises in the event of a change of ownership. The inheritance tax appears to be a State-inflicted disadvantage for a particular type of ownership. Investment taxes also have a number of adverse effects on saving and investment. This is a charge that affects many family businesses hard and incurs unnecessary costs for businesses. The tax on wealth is characterised by widespread discrimination between forms of savings and is an almost peculiar tax that stimulates tax-based dispositions. The Progress Party believes that the wealth tax must be abolished and that a tax system should be established that motivates investment and innovation through a flat and lower level of taxation. It is important for business to have clear competition legislation that contributes to the proper functioning of the market. An effective competition policy means that competition supervision should have the freedom to exercise its control and to point out unsustainable conditions without direct political interference. For small and medium-sized enterprises, it is essential that there is effective competition law that can also open sectors characterised by public monopolies to competition. The Progress Party believes that competition and market-based solutions are also the most sensible way to organise the production of publicly funded welfare tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1184	Framework conditions are important that make it attractive to start-ups and further development of our business in our country. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to ask the Government to submit a separate communication by spring 2009 on how to strengthen the Norwegian private ownership. We have over 40,000 enterprises that are facing a generation change over the next ten years. The inheritance fees are very important for these companies. I don't have a number of people who have come to me and said that the inheritance fee is an obstacle to the generation change – they can't do the generation change. We know that some people have scraped at the inheritance fee, and then they've started at the zero point. Others have been selling family businesses. We have a glittering model for this with a conditional inheritance fee for a generation change in family businesses. If the next generation takes over, the inheritance fee will be calculated normally, but it will not be charged. Every year for the next generation, inheritance fees are reduced by one tenth. If the next generation has been operating for ten years, the inheritance fee is gone. This way, you can hit those who want to help, and you can prevent abuse. Another thing is the wealth tax on working capital. This is how taxes on wealth must be paid regardless of the bottom line result. If a person is exempted from a property tax on working capital, there are two measures — exemption from inheritance tax and exemption from property tax on working capital — which are effective instruments, tailor-made for the difficult situation created by the financial crisis for many enterprises. A review of the tools to strengthen ownership in Norwegian business is quite natural. Unfortunately, as I read the map, our proposal to put forward a strategy to strengthen the active ownership of Norwegian business through a review and modernisation of the framework will be downgraded – as realistic as I am. Nevertheless, I hope that the government party will take a fresh look at these two proposals on the conditional exemption from inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family businesses and the exemption from property tax on working capital. I know I've mentioned this before, but it's never been more topical than now, in the situation of business in the context of the financial crisis. I hope that regardless of the outcome of the reconciliation, this will be checked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1195	It's not true to give up hope!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1198	Let me first say that I agree with the President that it is important to keep hope until the opposite happens – and we will see how things are going in the Chamber later today. I stress that there is an overall opposition that is now asking the Government to present a strategy to strengthen the private active ownership of Norwegian business and in this context – which I have also had to deal with earlier today – a modernisation and simplification of the legislation. The left considers that, in order to create safe jobs, a generally good framework for all parts of the business world, with which many have been involved, is essential. It is also important to support the undergrowth of unborn businesses and to develop more and better knowledge-based businesses. Public sector instruments need to be more effective in stimulating conversion and innovation. The economy depends on innovation and innovation in order to be competitive and meet the challenges of the future, and it is not an end in itself that one should be State owned. Especially in these times of financial crisis, we need to be creative and to facilitate innovation and new jobs. Then it's important to release creativity and creativity. It must be directed at entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and there must be less regulation and regulation. It is therefore important for the Left to secure risk capital through the public instrument and through tax incentives for private investors. This is precisely why a strong commitment to improving the framework conditions for Norwegian business in general and for small businesses in particular is a main priority for the Left. It has been mentioned earlier today that we have many family farms in this country; two out of three Norwegian farms are family farms. These precisely have a prominent role as a basis for value creation and well-being. Several representatives have been involved in obstacles to family businesses, in particular the inheritance fee, which must be an objective of removing, possibly improving, in the short term. Generation change is a critical phase for family businesses, and therefore this needs to be looked at carefully, because we still want family farms in this country. It is also important that good ideas are put into practice and get initial help regardless of geography and other circumstances. This must be taken into account by the instrument. Rather, the instrument must have its own strategies that take into account rural, residential and other factors in such a context. It is also important that the instrument has sufficient resources available, especially at these times, but also facilitates the availability of private capital in business. This must be made attractive through tax schemes, for example: a Capital FUNN scheme in line with the successful Tax FUNN scheme that we have. Therefore, I hope that alternatives will be explored where it will be tempting for companies or others with capital to go into private companies with capital, and then preferably through a tax incentive in this respect. I hope that more people take that idea and will continue working with it, at a time when we need private capital to strengthen just the private ownership of Norway. At the same time, I repeat that modernisation of the legislation is also extremely important, and there is also the modernisation of the instrument. Finally, I refer to the proposal that the Left has promoted together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1222	Let me first thank the representative Hansen for his good words on the Conference of Ownerships. I do not share what the representative said that we do not like private owners, because we do, and the representative showed that we had just invited representatives of three private owners to launch. This is the case, as everyone in this room knows very well, that most companies in Norway have private owners. They are a major and important part of our value creation and our jobs. And we are maritimely engaged in providing good and predictable framework conditions, so that owners, whether they are private or public, can exercise an active and good ownership. I believe, as was also the conclusion to the extent that there was some conclusion from that conference, that the time is now for an even more active and operational ownership, that is, everyone has to be in it. I believe that this financial crisis has shown us, and not least how it started. I hope the time has come to talk more about how we can mix public and private capital together. I also hope that the time has come to get us a little off the trench – both those who are on the side that the state should own the least possible, and those who are on the opposite side – and look at what we can do together now, whether we represent the state, the public or the private, to do something that is really good for our business and that makes sure that we get out of this crisis with an even more competitive business life than what we have. I think that's the most important thing now. And there I believe that part of those who sail are private owners and own a lot, have contributed constructively through many proposals. Some of them said here by day that they now went in for tax on dividends, I noticed. It's new, interesting signals. So I want to encourage that we now also use this opportunity to think differently and hopefully maybe in some areas approach something in relation to doing even more for the owners, whether they're private or public. In today's situation, how many businesses are struggling, it is particularly important that we make arrangements for even more change and even more innovation – both to secure existing jobs and to create new ones for the future. That is why we have stepped up our efforts both in terms of entrepreneurship and innovation. The Biggest Message addressed by the Storting suggests an important step in entrepreneurship, employee-driven innovation, research, innovation in the public sector and environmental technologies, to mention something. This is all the more important, and more important, measures on the part of the Committee to do even more in this situation. I also believe that the proposal to create a business policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, setting up strategic advice where businesses will be given clear advice on what needs to be done to ensure even more jobs and/or create new ones, is extremely important. We also need to look at how we can strengthen the position of small and medium-sized enterprises abroad. There's a potential. We have to make sure that our small and medium-sized enterprises are more competitive with businesses in other countries, and we see that competition is only increasing. The government works for a well-functioning capital market. The measures against the banks to which the Stortinget has joined, the two new funds that are recently up and running, and the many appropriations we have now given to our instrument, are important contributions in this way. I also fully agree with the proposers that good access to risk capital is particularly important for entrepreneurs and businesses at an early stage. That's exactly why we've increased the appropriations for, for example. Innovation Norway, that Investinor, who – as we know – has received SEK 2.2 billion at its disposal, is now up and running, that we have strengthened the equity of Argentina by NOK 2 billion, and that we are leaving behind dividends. After all, funds must be invested in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is Regeringas and I also expect Stortinget's clear expectation that these funds will benefit Norwegian jobs and Norwegian companies. Then we are, and I feel everyone in this room, concerned that we should not impose unnecessary costs on business, and that is why we must continue to discuss what we have discussed earlier today in terms of simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1245	Since the turn of the year, 1 220 companies have gone bankrupt. That's about. 23 companies that have disappeared daily. What you see now is that the packages that the government has promoted have not taken well enough. It is easy to think of all the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the context of the financial crisis, which have been voted down. What we see now is that there are a number of small private-sector companies that are going to end up, while other companies in which the state is a shareholder can easily come to the Government and get funds – SAS got 800 million. kr to get over his economic knee. So the real question is, what does the government want to do specifically to avoid the bankruptcy rate continuing for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1252	I want to rewind the film a little bit: where did this financial crisis start, and why did it start? There's probably a lot of opinions about, and there's probably a lot of people going to take studies and doctoral degrees on what really happened. What I think is quite obvious to a lot of people, is that some of the reasons why this happened were a lack of market governance. That's why not everyone I meet a day that represents business – and there are a lot of them – says what they said nine months ago: less state. They want more state. The claim that the package does not meet well enough is also not consistent with what the business community says to us. We had been consulting with the Prime Minister since last week, where the leaders of the largest companies in Norway were represented. They say that it was absolutely right to come up with what we did when we did it. We are committed both to maintaining jobs – but it has not been possible for everyone to be preserved, either before or now – and to create new ones. That is why many billions of dollars have been put into the instrument to benefit the companies that need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1261	It is positive that the Council of State invites a certain reflection on ownership policy in these times of crisis. And I'm going to be the first to look at opportunities for mixing public and private capital. There we have arrangements that work, and the Right supports and pays attention to them further. However, the special feature of the Norwegian framework conditions is the property tax, which every year attracts between 5 and 6 billion DKK from private ownership and systematically weakens private ownership in Norway. The taxes on wealth are also non-performing, so that in a time of financial crisis in which businesses are running short, it becomes extra bad to draw from the owners’ capital between 5 and 6 billion kroner. The government has even decided to increase this tax now in 2009. Does the Council of State see that every year — and especially when it is seen over a 20-year period — property ownership in Norway is significantly weakened, and that it is particularly unfortunate that this is now being reinforced in 2009? And can measures in relation to taxes on wealth be something that the Government looks at in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1268	Let me first say that I fully agree with Mr Hansen that we need a lot of private companies in the future. I also fully agree with what is said about the importance of the family-owned businesses. I respect that we disagree a little bit on some points as to what means we're going to use. No, we have no plans to make changes in the value added tax. We've been busy doing what works best and works fastest, in order to keep as many people as possible in work and create jobs in the future. I also record that among the representatives of the business community I meet, there are fewer people who take up the property tax now than it was a few months ago. On the contrary, they believe that the measures taken are good and will meet the situation in a good way. I think this is a point we can't agree on. But I'm glad that the representative Hansen says that it's very interesting to mix public and private capital, which it's possible to talk more about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1277	In my post I did good for this inheritance tax model, which I have probably mentioned a few times before. But the situation one has, with both the financial crisis and the fact that over 40,000 enterprises in the next decade are ahead of a generation change, is a huge challenge. With a conditional exemption from inheritance tax, not only can you give a handshake to your businesses, but you can actually give a real stimulus that hits, and a lot of people think of it as a problem. The government is certainly doing well with the budget for next year. My question is: are these of the measures that will be assessed in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1284	The budget comes when it comes, as the representative knows well. But I can probably answer this question like I said to the representative Hansen when it was inheritance and wealth, that that's not the area we're assessing, to say it that way. We believe that there are other measures that are more important now. It is important to record — including from the opposition — what needs to be done by other or, where appropriate, new measures to meet the very demanding situation we are now facing. There are already several proposals on the table that we are considering. But I must say to the representative Sørfonn that I cannot now give the answer he wants to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1291	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1296	I do not need to extend the debate, but as the Council of State was not near to reply to my reply, I will give the Council of State a new chance. What I asked the Council of State was: What does the Government intend to do specifically to prevent the bankruptcy rate for companies in Norway from continuing? I also noticed that the Council of State in its contribution invited a broad collection to find solutions for business. I am so pleased, but the history of the financial crisis is that the opposition's proposals have not been endorsed by the government parties, while large sections of the opposition have supported large parts of the packages that have come from the government. So it's possible to think a little bit about whether the proposals that have been made in this Chamber in the past, and that have been voted down by the government parties, can be lifted again. So the Council of State says that it has noticed that the demand from business for property taxes has been subdued in a number of ways. It's probably a little dependent on who the business community is talking to. When you talk to a government council from the Workers' Party, you realize that you shouldn't waste so much time trying to lower the tax. Then I am glad that there have been some packages that the Progress Party has also gone in to get in on the big businesses. But to the small privately owned businesses, the government hasn't brought so many packages. So there I will again challenge the Council of State to answer my question, and not start with where the financial crisis arose, because that was not at all what this representative asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1307	No, I noticed that this was not what the representative asked for, but I still thought it was important to remember how things actually hang together. So to the number of bankruptcies: it's clear it's demanding when there's so many bankruptcies. This has been the case in previous years, but it is a clear signal that we are in a very serious and demanding situation. So the question of how we'll make sure to meet that situation. First of all, I am very pleased that the opposition has joined many of the proposals put forward by the Government to meet the situation. One of the most important things we do is to use all of the tools that we now have at our disposal. Because we've made sure that we're in order in the economy, we can now roll out billions of dollars that benefit not least small and medium-sized enterprises – to Innovation Norway, to Argentum, which is going to invest in just small and medium-sized enterprises, to Investinor, and I could have mentioned many others that the representatives here in the hall know very well. Not least making the banks work again is very important to our business. We hope, of course, that the various banking packages, and not least the two new funds now in the process of getting up, will make a positive contribution to this. We are usually open to all good suggestions on things that should be adjusted, or that should be changed, or new things. But that doesn't mean we're going to agree on everything. The representative of Korsberg knows we probably won't be. But there are several of the proposals the opposition has made, which we have agreed on, and there will probably also be more in the future. I think it's a very important signal to say that it's not that all companies can survive. It is demanding for the companies involved, but I think it is very important that we now manage to make sure that all companies spend time on both conversion and innovation – something they may not have had the opportunity to do in times when everything has gone so well that they have only produced and produced to sell as much as possible. But now they're forced into a different situation. I believe that large parts of Norwegian business are actually quite good at operating with innovation. In the serious situation we're in, it's important not to forget what opportunities lie there. It is within the range that we – along with you – want to contribute to meeting the situation in order to keep as many people as possible at work, while at the same time creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1322	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2411]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1338	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1347	The representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Øyvind Korsberg from the Progress Party propose that the investment funds for North-West Russia and the investment fund for Eastern Europe be merged and that the management of the funds be added to the Kirkenes. This proposal is quite similar to the proposal that the same representatives put forward in 2006 and that the majority in Stortinget rejected at that time. The foundation at that time was the same as now, i.e. if you were to move the administration of the funds to the Church, it would provide a more unwieldy tool and thus a poorer supply to the business community. Earlier today, we had a debate on the basis of the National Audit Office's report and the study of Innovation Norway as a State industrial development expert, which concluded that the instrument was inconclusive. There is then no reason to make it even more unclear, as the proposal of these two representatives in the Progress Party points out. There is also reason to recall the creation of an office in Kirkenes in 2006 to be close to the geographic coverage of North-West Russia. This office simply provides the same services as the Oslo office. The Fund Department of Innovation Norway’s head office is currently based on the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe, the Fund for Industrial Cooperation with North-West Russia and the Investment Fund for North-West Russia. The government party believes that this is a sensible location, by allowing the fund management to shift the competence of Innovation Norway. Most of the companies that have an interest in these funds are mainly located in South Norway. In this sense, localization in Oslo is better and more sensible for the vast majority of enterprises. The representatives of the Progress Party also suggest removing the limit on the amount of money the Fund can invest in each project and that the Fund can also offer ordinary loans. The majority don't believe this and reason that it wouldn't be appropriate to do it that way. In the view of the majority, it is better that the fund has a good risk spread over the projects they enter, rather than a high level of exposure in individual cases. There is a strengthening of equity in relation to investments that are important, not through loans to enterprises, as these representatives suggest. Furthermore, the majority do not see the rationale of co-location and merger between the management organisations of Innovation Norway and Norfund, because the Fund has very different objectives and is targeting different geographical areas. Against this background, the majority will also this time recommend that the representative proposal by the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Germany, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Øyvind Korsberg be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1370	The North-West Russia Fund was established in 1997 to strengthen the role of the Churches and South-Varangs as a national bridgehead towards North-West Russia. The Fund was allocated clear areas of application, related to Murmansk, Arkhangelsk, the Autonomous Community of Nenet and the Republic of Karelia. Unfortunately, the Republic of Komi was not included in the geographical scope — otherwise a state that has huge oil and gas deposits and a huge potential in timber and wood. That is one of the reasons why the Progress Party is asking for an evaluation of the geographical scope. The aim of the proposal is to make the fund work after the 1997 intention: to make South Varanger a national bridgehead in a national effort towards North-West Russia. As I said and written, this case was pending in 2006. The Progress Party was then able to take advantage of the creation of one job from Innovation Norway divided between Murmansk and Kirkenes. In 2007-2008, Econ evaluated the use of the Fund, and the result was largely consistent with the Progress Party stated in the 2006 debate. The fund has not functioned according to its intention and currently has a capital base that is significantly higher than the basic capital at the time of its establishment in 1997. Econ points out the importance of pooling the funds and amending legislation and statutes in such a way that they will actually function according to their intentions. The political opinion of the Advance Party that local ring effects are much greater with a local anchoring indicates that all experience in fund setting-up indicates this. This view also had the Workers' Party and the Center's Party, but then they put them in opposition. The main axis we're talking about in order to make a proper and good use of the funds is not Oslo–Bergen or Oslo–Stavanger, but Kirkenes–Murmansk, Kirkenes–Arkhangelsk and Kirkenes–Komi – if you choose to see it from an economic perspective. Then it becomes completely meaningless that the government parties claim that a location in Oslo is better for most businesses than the churches. After almost twelve years of administration, the actual result is opposite. One important element in this is that, as far as competences in Russia and Russian business are concerned, this is not in Oslo, it is in Finnmark and in Kirkenes. This is a consequence of 20 years of development and day-to-day cooperation with Russian business, culture and people for long, long-term people-cooperation. The fact that the rest of the capital base is located elsewhere than in Finnmark and South Varanger is the result of a political and state vote-voting treatment of the region, where gift packages and national parks have preferably been used instead of long-term priorities for business development and business start-ups. There are also a lot of other important reasons for merging the investment funds, and for us to have a administration from the Churches. These instruments can easily and rationally stimulate strong cross-border business activities and clusters anchored in South Varanger. There is an undeniable need to give priority to the position and role of South Varang both as a bridgehead of North-West Russia and as a geopolitical hub – with its location and proximity to Russia. Moving larger parts of the management of the Fund to South Varanger will, in addition to strengthening the ring-fenced effects of own business, meet the security and foreign policy needs and contribute to the natural development of Norwegian presence and sovereignty. There is no doubt that economic integration with Russia is important in this way. The Arctic, the Barents region and North-West Russia are important areas of activity. Using various parts of our management system actively to promote Norwegian interests and sovereignty is important and should be a natural part of such a commitment. One might wonder that what government parties really do in this matter is to continue a policy that has proved to be totally ineffective. The North-West Russia funds have not and will not. However, the fact that the administration does not function clearly does not concern the Government in their verbal north-eastern action, how empty words and lack of political will are the main contribution. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1393	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1396	This case concerns funds established to strengthen cooperation with enterprises in North-West Russia and Eastern Europe. The North-West Russia Funds prioritise projects for industrial activities in the municipality of Sør-Varanger. Where the right cannot support the proposals made by the proposers in this matter, it is based on different circumstances. Merging the funds for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe may have its advantages, but when it appears in the Council of State's letter to the Committee on 5 December 2008 that most of the establishments showing an interest in these funds are located in South Norway, there is a risk that a merger will be counterproductive. The right considers that one cannot ignore the removal of maximum exposure size limits and the opening up of funds under given assumptions to provide ordinary loans to the fund for large exposures in individual cases. In our view, however, the part of the proposals that has the intention to re-examine the geographical scope of the funds is quite different. A proposal from the same representatives to move the investment fund of North-West Russia to Kirkenes was rejected by a majority on the Stortinget in March 2006. However, when examining the proposal at the time, the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, asked the Government to return to the Stortinget with an assessment of the administration and location of the funds administered by Innovation Norway. In 2006, an office was set up in Kirkenes to increase its proximity to the geographical coverage office of the North-West Russia Foundation. The Kirkenes office today offers the same services as the Oslo office. Right will underline that the Arctic, the Barents Sea and North-West Russia are an important area of action for Norway in the future. If the investment fund for North-West Russia does not meet its objectives, it can be seen that there is no need for earmarked funds towards North-West Russia. The right considers that there are good reasons why the administration of such a fund should be close to the coverage area. As I said, an office was set up in Kirkenes two years ago, and we believe that merging and moving the main administration of the Church should be carried out if there is evidence that it is the best solution. The right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, therefore promotes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate whether the establishment of the office in Kirkenes has adequately contributed to the achievement of its objective by the North-West Russia Funds and to promote a separate case for the Stortinget on how the North-West Russia funds can more effectively achieve their purpose and contribute to the performance of the North-West operation.’ We also propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1423	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1426	I would first like to comment on the question of merging the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe with the Investment Fund for North-West Russia. Today, the use of the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe is relatively high, while the Investment Fund for North-West Russia has significant available capacity as a result of too few acceptable projects and, according to the instrument assessment, high risk in the coverage area. In the event of a merger, the funds are likely to be used in areas other than north-west Russia, because the majority of the investment funds will be channelled into projects currently under the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe. The proposal for aggregation must also be seen in this context. I would remind you that the applications Innovation Norway receives for these funds are largely projects in areas other than the coverage area of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia. This is also the case, as has been said by several, that the majority of the companies that show interest in both funds are located in South Norway. Innovation Norway’s headquarters in Oslo receive most of the applications, but Innovation Norway has, as you know, a staff member in Kirkenes who assesses and deals with projects in line with the other employees at its headquarters in Oslo. This will take into account both the proximity of North-West Russia and the proximity of the business networks active in the coverage areas. So to the proposal to remove maximum exposure size limits and to open up the funds to provide ordinary loans. Exposures from the Investment Fund for North-West Russia are limited to 30 million. kr per. the project, while the limit for the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe is 15 million. kr per. project. The reason for the restrictions is that the funds should not be too exposed in individual cases and that there should be a good risk spread in the portfolio. The purpose of the creation of the funds is to contribute equity in connection with Norwegian investments in the east. This is equity, which together with assets shall form the basis for debt financing for the projects. In my opinion, it is unfortunate to operate with loans and equity from the same institution. Lenders should not be the owner of the company at the same time. Moreover, such loans will require a much larger fund administration than is the case per year. today. Therefore, in my view, it is not appropriate for the funds to be able to offer ordinary debt financing. With regard to the representatives' proposal to co-locate and merge the management organisations in Innovation Norway and Norfund and to move the fund management to Kirkenes, I would first like to point out that this is a very different fund. Innovation Norway's fund invests in North-West Russia and Central and Eastern Europe, while Norfund invests in developing countries. The proposal to merge three so different funds is not appropriate, as I see it. The target group of the funds is different and they target different geographical areas. Norfund has investment capital of SEK 4.3 billion and has a geographical focus on Africa, Asia and Central America. Furthermore, there is no requirement for participation by Norwegian companies. The Investment Fund for North-West Russia and the Investment Fund for Eastern Europe is a commercial policy instrument with virtually no geographical overlap with Norfund, and they require co-investment with Norwegian companies within their scope. Finally, the proposal to further develop the grant fund, TNR, and review the geographical scope of the funds. Grant funds for industrial cooperation with North-West Russia are reserved for projects which may lead to investments in the coverage of the Investment Fund for North-West Russia. At present, funds of 8.53 million are available. kr in the fund, which is considered sufficient by both the Ministry and Innovation Norway. Strengthening the Fund will require funds from the State budget, and it will have to be dealt with in that context as a matter of urgency. Finally, I would like to stress that the scope of the funds reflects the priorities of the Government. These priorities have not been changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1458	The Arctic, the Barents region and North-West Russia are important areas of activity both for the Government and for the Advance Party. I actually see it as natural to use different parts of our management system both to promote national interests and to reconstruct Norwegian natural sovereignty. As I understand it, the Government has much the same opinion. Then it becomes strange, and I have to ask: what is the reason why a government that focuses on a Northern Region initiative is going against its own policy and actively countering such solutions by saying no to establishing fund capital in the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1463	Let me first say that I fully agree that this is an important bet area, and I believe this government more than anyone else has shown that we are betting in the north. We believe – as I also said in my main post – that getting more projects together with North-West Russia is important, so that is not what this matter is about. What we have to look at is how we can organise the various instruments we have, so that we actually achieve the goal of investing more in the north – in this case in the relationship with North-West Russia. Then, as the representative is well aware, we have an employee in the Church from Innovation Norway. I think it would have been inappropriate to organise it as the representative Henriksen and several others here propose – precisely in view of the possibility of triggering more projects in cooperation between Norway and North-West Russia. And that's what has to be crucial, not necessarily where the administrators of the different funds actually hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1471	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2411]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1489	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1498	The representatives behind this document No. The 8 proposal proposes the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings for the Storting to lift the obligation to reside in agricultural property, to abolish the price regulation of agricultural property and to abolish the ground law’.» The proposers point out that under current law agricultural property is subject to a number of regulations that other property does not have. The proposers believe that this helps to make Norwegian farmers poorer, while significantly reducing the investment and risk capacity of industry. Furthermore, they believe that it is unreasonable that public regulation prevents farmers from enjoying the market value of their properties. From that point of view, they believe that price regulation should be lifted. Furthermore, they indicate that the housing obligation has not contributed to increased residence throughout the country, as is the intention. With regard to the prohibition of sharing, they believe that this presupposes that it is the society that knows best when deciding whether to share a property or not, and not the owner of the agricultural property. The proposers indicate that there is a significant proportion of land rent among Norwegian farmers, up to 40 pst. of the agricultural area. The proposers are also subject to the law of nobility, and believe that the right to vote leads to considerable uncertainty for both purchasers and sellers of agricultural property. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party, propose that the proposal be 'not accepted'. There is a proposal from the Left, proposal No. 2, which shall mean that the proposal is annexed to the minutes. I am addressing that proposal. I assume that the argument around the second proposal is taken care of by the respective parties. The left is absolute for the modernisation of the law, including in the field of agriculture. Forces and public regulation must be replaced by more arms and freedom — it must be replaced by housing and opportunities to exploit the property better than commercial property. Today there are 35 000 unoccupied agricultural properties. Much of it is a result of a little flexible regulation. There are several people who want to live in rural areas. We must welcome these. There are often creative people who want to reinvigorate the community and help make the communities more vibrant. You don't do that by refusing to build union houses where there's no livestock, as this government is in favour of. It leads to depopulation, rather the opposite of what is desirable, namely that more people settle down. The proposers make many constructive proposals. The left does not share all of them completely. But simplification is absolutely necessary, modernisation is necessary, and the farmer as a businessman must have greater rights. The left regards the farmer as a self-employed person, but with a special management responsibility. The management work done by the farmer is rewarded with state transfers. I agree with the proposers that we need to focus more on the farmer as a businessman and that he needs to be given opportunities by modernising the legislation. By doing so, I have explained the arguments put forward by the rapporteurs, the majority of the committee's recommendation and the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1527	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1530	It's almost amazing that we're going to deal with the same thing, with the same content and with the same government. That someone in his wildest imagination thinks that there's going to be some new signal this time, through such an easy-to-use treatment that private suggestions build on, is almost unlikely. Maybe it's better to express the opposition's right to be a driver in matters where the government has a work that takes a long time through democratic legislation. I choose to believe it. In a letter from the Minister of Agriculture on the matter the previous time she was being handled, he indicated that he had a work going on reviewing various laws that together could change Norwegian agriculture. The Labour Party believes that it is wise to spend time and send things out on a broad hearing before a country lands on a forward-looking agricultural policy. The proposalers are quite right that many have changed over the past 50 years, but new decisions should not be more ambitious than those with which the economic operators are attached. I believe that both the concession law, the nobility law, the bus and business obligations and the sharing law will change the landscape for all of us, and that with that review we will come closer to the objectives of this government – with active farmers throughout the country, with good framework conditions and with the objective of light in far more houses than we have now. We have to remember, as others have also said, that there are far more people who want such bus stops than what is available today. The Labour Party will be a constructive member of the Government to achieve these goals. The proposers show various statements and studies that have been made. My answer is, like a question, you get an answer. The image may be more composite than it was. This option is most often blue. Active farmers have signaled through their organisations that they are more satisfied with their agricultural policy than they have been for a long time. I think they have good reason for that at a time when many external factors will change everyday life. The government wants to fix the current pawn, but rejects document no. 8:28, as the suggestion is and with the reason I have here tried to get ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1545	Unlike the previous speaker, I am not shocked by this proposal. I would like to signal that this proposal by the Right is an unusually good proposal, and the Progress Party is ending it wholeheartedly. This is probably an area where the Progress Party and the Right agree – agricultural policy. The Norwegian farmer has virtually no ownership of his own property — property that has been managed on behalf of the family over many generations. You risk, when you want to step out of agriculture, getting close to the bar because the state goes in and controls first who you're going to be able to sell the property to, and second, how much you're going to be able to take for the property, the so-called price control. The farmer also has many operating restrictions. You can't produce as much as you like. You have restrictions on what you can grow on the property. You have housing, which means that many people who today inherit agricultural property are pressured to move, break up from the environment in which you have settled, to move to an agricultural property that you cannot feed on. We see that today's agricultural policy, which Sigrun Eng boasts of, creates great difficulties for the farmer. Now we're in a very worrying situation, because there are soon no farmers left. There are about 200 000 agricultural properties in Norway, and today we have 47 000 active farmers. The number of farmers has almost halved in the last 20 years. Only since 2000, there have been over 20 000 fewer farmers. It keeps going down. There's something I still experience when I'm out talking to farmers: More people in the nutrition committee who are taking part in this debate were in the West at the end of last week and took part in an agricultural debate, where we got clear signals that agricultural earnings are not something to boast about. Many now strongly consider whether it is possible to continue agriculture with the framework conditions. Now I am aware that the agricultural organisations do not agree with all the liberalisation proposals that have been promoted, but I would challenge the Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers Teams whether their policies have been useful to the Norwegian farmer. I'll say no. It is clear that when a working group that farmers experience years after year as the lowest-paid professional group in society, some soon have to ask questions about agricultural policy, the agricultural agreement and all the regulations that are around being a farmer contribute to the social development they have wanted for agriculture. The Norwegian farmer made an average of NOK 133 000 last year from farming. There's nothing to brag about or write back. I think that the parties in this Chamber who want the Norwegian farmer well should re-evaluate their agricultural policy significantly. Then the State Council has informed Breck that he will come back to Stortinget with matters where one among others. regulates the rights of the public and the control of prices. It is then necessary to make a proper assessment of what is serving agriculture. I am concerned that in these matters there will be considerable tightening. All history and all figures should now speak separately: agriculture is not served. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1566	Then the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr raised proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox That's the time for the morning meeting. The stork interrupts its negotiations, and meets again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1599	Real estate is often the largest asset of the Nordics, and many Norwegians therefore save through real estate. The right therefore believes that the farmer's rights to his own property need to be strengthened. The specific rules currently applicable to agricultural properties help to make Norwegian farmers poorer, while reducing the investment and risk capacity of the industry significantly. First, it means that public regulation prevents farmers from enjoying the market value on their own property. The right considers that such discrimination is very unfair and should not be allowed to continue. Secondly, the industry becomes injured without evidence that regulation has any positive effects on rural settlement or agricultural development. Since the Law on Soil Sharing was introduced, many rural areas have experienced depopulation and fewer and fewer incomes from agriculture. The rule on the prohibition of sharing is based on the assumption that it is society that is closest to deciding what is the most appropriate social use of a property. This is a prime right doesn't agree, and we'll again highlight that 40 pst. of the agricultural area today is rented and operated by a farmer other than his own. Today, the structure of agriculture, with larger farms and fewer farmers, is taking its natural course, while the property structure is maintained. There is a development that the Right dislikes strongly, as it brings our active peasants into a life as tenants. The right-hand belief is that the right-of-sale entails significant uncertainty for both the purchaser and the seller of agricultural property. Right-wing expect a review of the importance of the law on the marketing of agricultural property to be carried out in the context of the Government's promotion of changes to the law on the nobility. On 5 February 2008, a number of legislative changes were proposed in the Odel Act, the Concession Act and the Land Act. The current Minister for Agriculture and Food, Terje Riis-Johansen, argued at the time for the intensification of, among other things. the obligation to live and operate. There are major counter-conceptions to the changes in the law that were sent to the hearing a little over a year ago. To believe that there will be more people living on agricultural properties by forcing them to do so is wrong medicine at a time when many are increasingly able to do their work from both housing and leisure homes. Today there are almost 35,000 unoccupied agricultural properties as a direct result of a small flexible regulatory framework. The right therefore believes that it is important to take action to make the law more flexible, so that it is easier to operate a farm or to live on an agricultural property. The right also believes that more people should be given the opportunity to engage in agricultural activity. However, due to today's rigid legislation, we have recently seen several cases of young people with a high interest in agriculture not being given such an opportunity. It is also very regrettable that the Council of State does not see the need to make simplifications to give the farmer greater rights over his own property. I ask myself: Is it really in line with the Centre Party's soul to restrict the ownership of the peasant – the right to owner-occupied housing and property? The right believes that the Council of State and the Red-Green Government show a far too passive attitude towards the developments we see in this area, especially in relation to the ownership of the farmer. To show that similar issues have already been addressed in the Storting does not indicate that the Council of State has offensive visions for the industry and farmers' properties. Knowledge in this area is constantly evolving, and researcher Magnar Forbord at the Norwegian Centre for Rural Research, has, in the course of a study from November 2008 to the Evening Post, stated: ‘The sole purpose of the obligation to live is to ensure the annual residence of residential real estate. We find no effect of the obligation to live in our study, so the authorities should become more nuanced in their view of the obligation to live." The government has announced a case to the Stortinget in the spring of 2009, but the statements that have come from government teams indicate that the matter will focus on tightening up an already tight regulatory framework. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that the Government's proposals will serve the intention of the proposers. The right, together with the Progress Party, will therefore make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings for the Storting to lift the obligation to reside in agricultural property, to abolish the price regulation of agricultural property and to abolish the ground law’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1637	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1640	This is a matter to which we have had the pleasure of discussing before, and to which we are fortunately also given the opportunity to come back. Initially, I want to say two things about the process. This is why I am a little surprised that the opposition chooses to use time and effort to address this matter and this issue now, when you know that you have the opportunity to come back to this on a broad basis and in a proper way. So I guess I think it's more like a demonstration proposal for once again to make its principal attitude visible to these questions. Although we now reject the issues both in this case and in the next cases, which are really completely parallel, it is not about being unwilling to discuss – it is just that this is neither the time nor the occasion. It's about wanting to do this as a result of a thorough legislative process and thorough work prepared by the Department and the Government for the Stortinget. That kind of thoroughness I would have thought that the opposition too should have laid a foundation, simply because this is a law that has long traditions in Norway. It deals with important property. Perhaps you should take the time to read through the proposals and the reasons that come from the Government, before concluding the argument in a Document No. Eight proposals. There's a big difference between shaving and cutting off my head, I learned once. The intention of this proposal seems to me to be the last one. It is clear that there is a need for reform. There will always be a need to have a law that is up-to-date and that meets the challenges of life in an active way. Here, however, it is concluded that the law should be abolished. You have to take away the law of no part – it says at least the party of progress. You have to remove the concession law. You have to remove the most important parts of the law. It will change property conditions quite a lot in Norway. For the Central Party, we want to enter into these debates with an open mind. But I want to establish that having a regulation that ensures that the form of property is personal, having a legal regulation that ensures that the resources and value creation remain in the districts, in the Norwegian countryside, and that the free play of capital does not fit in here as well, is going to guide us in this work, which we look forward to in the spring. A brief summary of why we are doing what we are doing, both in terms of this proposal and the proposal in the next case: I look forward to a much more constructive round of these questions and hope that it will be possible to create a relatively wide majority – that is. at least with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1653	The proposers argue that the prohibition of sharing, price control in the case of the transfer of agricultural property and housing obligations in the case of the acquisition of such property prevent professionals from enjoying the market value and market development of their properties and that, for that reason, the regulation should be repealed. I believe that the proposers have the wrong answer to the question. The regulations they want to live on are justified for social reasons. We have rules to ensure that the values do not disappear with an actor who leaves the industry, making the property less suitable for farming. For society, the value of ensuring that agricultural property is capable of operating in the future is greater than that of individual professionals to take advantage of by selling their property and leaving the industry themselves. In my view, this rationale for regulation is also the right starting point when the objective is to provide both the owners and society. The agriculture we have in Norway today is valuable to all of us. It is important from the point of view of food supply and nutrition, the consideration of housing, as cultural bearers and from the point of view of nature and the environment. This composite image is, for example: a result of active operations throughout the country and not least the targeted use of legal and economic instruments by both the State and industry. It's a result that there's reason to be proud of. In order to take account of living rural communities, food security and environmental and cultural values, it is necessary to have more tools available than agricultural policy support schemes. The legal instruments represent such tools. In my view, a general termination of the ban on division means that we open up to the effect that the values can be digested over time, because some owners want to leave the industry. This occurred before the ban on sharing was introduced in 1955. There's no reason to think that it won't happen again if there are no restrictions on sharing. Employment in Norwegian agriculture is currently based on a cooperative where the framework conditions and economic benefits of the country are crucial for each individual professional. Cooperation is in many ways a social contract. The abolition of price controls opens up the opening of the financial framework conditions, such as: if it is ensured by the agricultural agreement, it benefits which will leave the industry rather than the farmer in the future. It's the wrong use of community money. It will not help to secure the social values of agriculture, nor will it secure agriculture throughout the country. Disposal opens up the possibility that the resources in agricultural dwellings could be used for cabins, while the land would be leased out to a greater extent than at present. Nor do I see this as a desirable way to go. On the basis of the proposal put forward by the same representatives on land rent, which we are going to debate later this evening, and the importance of farmers owning the land they operate, I believe that the proposers will not accept such a development either. Inner. S. No 172 from the nutrition committee shows that I have a broad majority in this room behind me when I believe that the price control, the housing obligation, the odels law and the ban on sharing are key instruments for ensuring a living agriculture and housing throughout the country. I am pleased with this consensus and with the majority's wish to remain active in the use of the means of property policy that proposers will liquidate. The legal instruments relating to property must be designed in such a way as to contribute to the best possible achievement of agricultural and district policy objectives. Of course, this means that some of the instruments need to be significantly simplified. In addition, they need to be amended in such a way as to make them more precise in relation to their social justification. This is why in the near future the Government will present proposals to the Stortinge on changes in, inter alia, the rules on compulsory residence and compulsory employment, etc. In addition, I believe that the current circular whether the price assessment does not capture the real value of the properties satisfactorily in all areas of the country. In practice, there are large regional differences in housing value. In addition, such a solution is currently under price control after the transfer of the property and the new owner has applied for a concession. This can give poor predictability to both the seller and the purchaser. The circular should be more transparent in order to clarify the price question with the authorities in advance. I'm aiming at a review of this circular to improve these relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1674	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1677	The centre party has historically been one of the strongest defenders of private property in this country. But then we've seen in recent years that this has slipped out seriously. The centre party no longer appears to defend private property but as one of the forces of this society that wants to intervene most strongly in private property rights. We have also seen in this magnification period that this has slipped out seriously, among other things. through the protection of large private properties. Then my question is, how could it have happened that the Central Party has changed its policy so dramatically? Can the Council of State admit that this shift in the Central Party's historical line around ownership is a bit embarrassing to him?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1684	The last question I will of course answer no. The first representative of Kielland Asmyhr here is also wrong. What the Center Party has stood for and stands for in property policy, has a long tradition, and we are confident in that tradition, even in the future. We're in possession of private property. We're concerned that the farm is going to be handed over the next generation in better condition than it is in. That's the policy we're engaged in. That's why we've put more effort on those who're going to continue in the industry than on those who're going out. That is why we have price regulation. This also serves the social interest, the social contract, where part of the income of the farmer depends on public transfers. We are concerned that we should ensure good structures in the future. That is why we have a ban on sharing. Of course, it is also such that the ban on sharing can be dispensed with. There, municipalities have to find good solutions. So we're on a safe footing in this property policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1691	The government has announced a case to Stortinget during the spring of 2009. Previous government statements suggest that the case will focus on further tightening of an already tight regulatory framework. My question to the Council of State will be as follows: Will the Council of State guarantee that the draft law to be dealt with in the Stortinget will discuss the issues in an open and unbiased way, which can help to improve the rights of the farmer in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1698	On that question I can answer yes – unconditionally. We want to have an open discussion of the issues raised here. We are committed to targeting the rules on living conditions. We're committed to simplifying the rules with regard to the law of nobility. We are committed to clarify the legislation on the ban on sharing. We are also concerned with clarifying the price regulation. This is an important debate. This is important that we also take part in the Storting, and I hope that we will have an open and open debate on those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1703	No matter what industry you run, you have to focus on profitability, and it depends on certain framework conditions. In agriculture, there is a slightly special situation. You have budgetary resources. You have prices, which, on the other hand, seems to go up the ceiling in terms of target prices. And you have tools through taxes and arrangements around it. In addition, there are different legal instruments that need to be adapted to changing society. There are many of the laws that apply to agriculture today, which are of old age, and which originate in a completely different time. Will the Council of State be specific about what he will do with the modernisation of the legislation, whether it be no part of the law or in other areas? I'm asking him to be concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1713	The representative of Kongshaug asks me to be specific about a proposal that will come in a short time. Of course, I will not prejudge the debate to come – the Storting must wait until we have the matter advanced. It'll be here in a few minutes. I just want to stress in response to the question that I agree that legal instruments, in the agricultural industry as elsewhere in society, must be adapted to the time we live in. I have an ambition that we should simplify legislation, get more targeted instruments. We're going to get a better predictability through the use of tools, and not least we're going to achieve the goal of agriculture across the country. That is why we must have a ban on sharing in the future. That is why we have to live in the future, and we have to have a duty to drive in the future. That is why we must also ensure that the law of nobility is passed on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1720	I understood from the last Council of State that we cannot expect the very big changes in the announced cases to the Stortinget. Today, agriculture is undergoing major change, and agriculture is under strong pressure, particularly in terms of efficiency. Many farmers who want to bet for the future need to expand their business and get more legs on – a more solid basis to stand on – just like other entrepreneurs in other types of businesses. Is it okay for one farmer to own two, three, or four agricultural properties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1725	The last question I can answer yes to. It is the same today that one farmer has the opportunity to own several agricultural properties. As for the question of the changes that will be promoted in the case of property policy, I will repeat what I also said to the representative, Kongshaug, that we must come back to this when the proposal is promoted in a short time. I am, as I said, concerned that we should have good solutions, forward-looking solutions that will ensure the development of agriculture even in a changeable time, as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1732	When I heard the statement to the Council of State, I got the impression that the legislation was more important than the farmer. What really surprises me is that neither the Council of State nor the Government parties mention any form of professional argument about the instruments used in agricultural policy. The debate is spicy with political objectives, but here it is about economic and legal instruments that have an impact on farmers and the way they act. Then it is striking how there is a total lack of professional reasoning for the strict legislation that you have. Let me do a couple of numbers. We have approx. 200,000 agricultural holdings and 50 000 active farmers. We have 35,000 empty courtyards that stand to maturity without anyone putting them into service, without anyone investing in refurbishment of these houses. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: Is the Council satisfied that we have a completely locked property structure in an industry that is in a dynamic process of conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1743	I disagree with the description given by the representative Hansen. I disagree that it is a totally locked structure. At the same time, I agree that more can be done in the future – we can adjust the law to meet the challenges we face today. It's true that we have a lot of properties that are not in use. We want them to be owned by the farmer himself, and there will be instruments going in that direction. We're busy getting better profitability into the industry. There's more than just the legal instruments that matter, but the legal instruments here are also important. The proposal that is put forward in a short time will take account of the discussions that are being drawn up here, and I hope that we will have a good debate when we discuss it in the Stortinget. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1754	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1759	It is striking to listen to the politicians of the Central Party, whether the representative Borten Moe or the Minister of Agriculture – that they are so pleased when you run a shot where there has been no more idle use in Norway since the black age, and so you cannot specify a course on how to get out of this mess. The instruments that we now understand must be continued, albeit in a slightly adapted state, have proved to be ineffective with all the necessary clarity. And that's pretty typical, I think, when the representative Borten Moe pulls up that stereotyping it's claiming that we're going to be facing lodges in Agriculture-Norway if we do something with the rules. I want to tell a story, which is not about speculation, but is about a real situation. This is about the sculptor Svein Tore Kleppan, who took over a use in South France after an uncle. That's what he thought was cleverly done – there he could do his business, along with his art-painting wife, and it was sheep and pigs that were the matter. They invested in an studio on the property and started well. They're both famous artists in their fields and got a good job. They gradually saw that it was difficult to combine pigs and sheep and artistic activities, and they thought that here we're going to change. The debts they had formed to build studios and to make the property habitable, were drawn on. They tried to sell the land for neighboring use to keep it operational, which they thought could be curative. They were not allowed to do that, because they did not receive a discount. Then you tried to sell the whole farm, because you felt compelled to. Nor were they allowed to do so, because of price regulation, i.e. they could sell, but then at a price that meant they wouldn't land. Now Kleppan is bankrupt and put under administration. The bank is trying to sell his seat, but they are not allowed to do so, so the forced authorities will probably make sure to sell this farm. The valve will be ruined for the future, and this story will be a terror and a warning for all young couples who want to invest in agricultural property. The Minister of Agriculture talks about social benefits, but he forgets that agricultural property is actually linked to the rest of society. The vast majority of farmers do not run it in isolation. Most people will need to be able to realize or adapt their property to other activities, but today's legislation stops it. Thus, the legislation is not adapted to the world in which we live, whether or not the Minister of Agriculture believes so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1770	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1786	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1795	We are now dealing with a proposal where there is a desire for a strategy to give active farmers greater opportunity to own the areas they run. According to the proposers, the background is that over the past 30 years the number of agricultural holdings has fallen by 50 pst. – from the lower edge of 100000 to less than 50000. In addition, more than 200 agricultural holdings have ceased to operate. It is also noted that cultivated land and food production are maintained by other tenants. This has led to the fact that today it is approx. Four million. renting land, which represents approximately 40 pst. We have 10 million. dekker cultivated land in this country, about that. Proposalers believe that there is a need for a fundamental and open debate around the challenge of active farmers, as there is such a large proportion of rent. In this context, the proposers would like to see a debate on concession obligations, housing obligations, price control, the rule of law and the division of the law and the impact it has on the percentage of land leased. The proposal for these representatives reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the Storting for a strategy to give active farmers greater opportunities to own the land they run.’ It is the government parties who have proposed that this should not be accepted, while all the other parties, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, join in the proposal and want such a case to be promoted by the Stortinget. The Committee believes that the agriculture of the future depends on people living in a farm and farming, and that it is important to take care of and facilitate the provision of opportunities and opportunities for farmers who are active, creative and initiative-rich. The left agrees with the proposers that there should be a case for increasing the ability of active farmers to own the land they operate. Although it now paints and lir toward the end of the session, and it is short time to promote such a message, I believe that it is important that the matter comes to the Stortinget for a principal treatment. I am promoting with the minority proposal of the four parties mentioned in the recommendation. I wonder at the government parties' statement that land renting gives greater flexibility and less capitalization. Well, that's probably true, but this obviously has to be balanced against the disadvantages it's not owning its own land in terms of maintenance and investment in terms of long-term. We all know that we don't want to cost things and at least don't put ourselves in debt on things that aren't our own. So it has to be a goal, even if we're going to have respect for private property rights, to get arrangements that make it more lucrative and more interesting to dispose of land to active users, so that users who really do actively farm can take this as part of their land base and thus invest in it also in view of long-term. It is noted that proposals will be made by the Government to conclude leases of at least 10 years' duration and agreed by the undersigned. If there are leases first, it's important that you have a long-term perspective, so that you can at least have assumptions to base the area on for farm operations. I think I'll finish there. As I said, the proposal from the Government parties is that the proposal should not be accepted, while the other parties, the opposition parties in the Stortinget, want such a case to be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1817	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1820	Agricultural estates around the country represent an important resource that needs to be exploited in the best possible way, so that we meet our agricultural policy objectives. In this proposal for a representative, the problem of land renting in agriculture is highlighted. About 40 pst. of the earth is today rented land, and there is no doubt that land rent is an important question for active gardeners. Many landowners are emotionally related to the Earth's, and it can therefore be difficult to get passive landowners to sell the Earth's. But it's not always bad to base operations on land renting. This possibility offers flexibility in agriculture, and it is an advantage in view of the best possible use of the farm equipment. One avoids large capital bonds, and many farmers also felt that leased land is positive. But because many of the leases are short-term, long-term planning is difficult for the tenants. Therefore, I am pleased that, in the context of the proposal for amendments to the rules on bus and service obligations, as will be presented to the Stortinget in a short time, changes will be proposed to the obligation to operate. The Council of State has indicated that the proposal is based on the assumption that the obligation to operate is permanent and that owners who do not wish to operate themselves can lease off contracts of at least 10 years' duration. This may reduce the problem of renting land making less efforts in long-term cultural measures such as mining, liming and fertilisation, which may result in land renting being unfavourable in a long-term resource and management perspective. In the nation today, state agricultural management tells about changes in the price of land rented. By and large, there's a decrease in the price. The lessors get other benefits from renting, such as edge-stamping, bridge-stamping, fence maintenance, etc. The difference between the rental price and the measures the owners had to take otherwise is not so great, but there is absolutely reason to follow. And we need to consider measures, including: look at how parts of the money in the agricultural policy are used. The representatives of the Right shall ask the appropriate question in their representative’s proposal. But the answer they give, one might wonder something about it. Purchases of land when rental prices go down, or are almost free of charge, are probably not what should be given first priority. We cannot, as the proposers also think, point out that this leads to a reduction in the area in use, rather in production – probably on the contrary. The Labour Party wants to take part in a constructive debate on the future of agriculture in Norway. But the signatures suggest that this document no. The 8th proposal and Document No. 8:28, which we discussed earlier today, hang closely together. And as I said, I think that many of the recordings the documents are based on can find a solution to the revision that the Council of State has signaled will come now in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1835	It is a good proposal that the proposers have put forward here, and it is in line with what the Progress Party has been thinking for very many years about solving agricultural property conditions and helping to strengthen those who choose to be left in agriculture by buying more land. I would also like to fully support the statement made by the rapporteur. It was a very good post that expressed what the minority in this case thinks. Several speakers have been faced with the challenge of getting an increased level of land rent. I myself live in rural areas, and I see for myself in the area where I live, that in just a few years now, the operating structure has changed considerably. In cereals 15 to 20 years ago, a large farm was built with 300 cereals. Today there is no return to talk about. Today, many people are able to run 1000, 2000 and perhaps up to 3000 targets and have other activities alongside. It means, with the property structure we have in Norwegian agriculture, that one farmer operates quite a number of farms. It is also unlikely that in some areas where the owner has gone over to rent off the land, the family will start farming again. Because when you shut down the operation, when you sell the machine park, when you make other choices here in life and bet on other professions, there's a lot more to be done before you start farming again. Representative Eng said you had a lot of feelings about the earth. Yeah, I think you might have feelings about a property that's been in the family for years, but I think it's mainly about the tune. Many still want to live on the tuna, to live on the property and have it as a good place to live. And that's a farm property today: a nice place to live. But with more flexibility in terms of being able to dissociate and sell land from the property, you can for example. are left with the tuna and a little liberal land on some targets, you might be left with the forest, but you can sell the arable land to a farmer nearby who wants to drive agriculture. There has been this predictability to bet, and I think that's going to be a significant challenge in the future, because the number of desert land is going to increase dramatically in the years to come. There aren't many more years now until we're up to 60 pst. land rent. That's what I think is going to go pretty fast. The long-term challenge is that even if you were to rent land on a ten-year contract, which many today have, you have no predictability that you will be able to rent the land and count it into operation after that ten-year period. I would think very much, if I was a farmer renting land, to make necessary investments such as. digging, perhaps some ground planning, other soil-processing measures, or if I were to make large investments in machinery, in drying plants, perhaps bet large in livestock farming, if I did not know if I would have sufficient land in the future. I think that agriculture is very much appreciated that we are now getting solved in this. And it's clear that with some of the signals that have come here today, I think quite a lot of us now see with reasonable tension on these matters that the Council of State has notified will come around Easter times. I think the disappointment here in the Storting is going to be great if you don't make it to move especially more than a millimeter further from where we are today, because it's not worth farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1850	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for the work he has done on this matter, and I would like to stress that the Right does not want the system of renting land to be put to life. In the short term, the possibility of renting agricultural land in the context of agricultural conversion is essential for keeping the land in operation as the number of farmers at a relatively rapid pace goes down. The possibility of renting land is also attractive in the short term to farmers such as tenants, on the grounds of flexibility and low capital adequacy, some of whom have been involved. I would like to stress in every way that the lease system must be maintained, both in the interests of those who have a need, in the short term or in the long term, to rent out, and in the interests of those who hire in. When the problem of land rent is addressed in this proposal, it is equally fully recognised that development is becoming a major long-term structural problem in agriculture, both for industry as a whole and for many individual farmers. The situation is that agricultural property is barely traded in the course of the conversion process, and that most of the cultivated land that is not to be maintained by the owner of it will end up on the rental market. Statistics speak a clear language. From 1989 to 2007, the number of agricultural holdings was halved. From 1979 to 2007, the amount of leased land has doubled, amounting to around 4 million in 2007. dekar, equivalent to 39 pst. of the total area cultivated in Norway. At the top is the Norwegian farmer in the process of becoming a tenant, i.e. that he lives on the agricultural area of other landowners. This is obviously the Central Party pleased with. The fact that farmers are lodgers may be a natural starting point for a socialist peasant party, but the Right is strongly opposed to such a development. The problem of land rent is evident in the United Nations on 3 February of this year, when the Agricultural Investigation Office carried out a survey showing that 60 pst. by the farmers in Norway believe that they are dependent on renting land to make the farm driveable. The survey was conducted on the Internet, and 1611 answers were given. Of the people who asked, 60 pst, the majority of the farmers said it should be easier to separate from the agricultural area for sale, and 52 pst. believed that the volume of land leased would make it more difficult to implement the necessary investments in operation. So here, the Central Party is clearly in conflict with the majority of Norwegian farmers. Hanne Eldby, head of the Investigation Office, said the following to the Nations: ‘The extensive use of leased land weakens the safety and potential for agricultural planning and investment.’ According to the nations, Hanne Eldby believes it is time that the agricultural industry looked into the legislation on land transfers. That's what I'd call an understatement. I think the government parties have a very defensive approach to this matter. On the one hand, it is clearly stated in the form of a note that there is a need to increase the rate of conversion of agricultural property and that property policy should be proportionate to agricultural development. According to their own comments, the red-greens are concerned that property policy is proportionate to agricultural development. But then it is difficult to refer only to changes in the living and working conditions that have been notified. These changes are likely to have minimal effect and developments will continue as before. I believe there are at least five aspects that prevent the movement of agricultural property. First, the individual landowner has a strong connection with his property. It's natural. A family that owns land for generations is not willing to sell it without further ado, and at least not at a price that is lower than the real value. The emotional aspects of the movement of agricultural property have much to say. But at the top of this, we have equipped ourselves with an antique regulatory system that clearly prevents forward-looking development in this industry. The law of title, the prohibition of sharing, the obligation to live and the regulation of prices on farm all contribute individually to the cementation of the property structure. What we see in agriculture today is a natural consequence of property regulation: the owners become passive. I believe it is high time that we made a significant deregulation of the system we have for agricultural property. Statistics appear more and more to be a bauta over a failed line of regulation that keeps the structure of agriculture at an iron grip, while farmers change at a high pace. I think, for example: an increased possibility to divide agricultural land from residential property and to transfer the agricultural land to active farmers would be an obvious measure to make farmers owners of the land they actually operate. An overall opposition supports the Right's proposal to ask the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting for a strategy to give active farmers greater opportunity to own the land they run. It is very positive and a clear indication of a greater capacity for innovation both for farmers and for agriculture if there is to be a changed majority on the Stortingen to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1883	Suggestion providers deal with a difficult but very important theme. Because development is a structural problem for the development of agriculture in Norway, and then a fundamental and open debate on these challenges is needed. In the Christian People's Party we have with interest read the State Council's letter to the Committee dated 12 February, but we still believe that the changes that the Council of State suggests in its letter of reply, to the extent that is OK. But they don't go far enough. For this reason, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to ask the Government to bring up a case for the Storting for a strategy to give active farmers greater opportunity to own the land they run. This is a theme that would be very useful for a big message, with the possibilities for reflection and solution orientation that such a form of treatment gives rise to. Saka is the fact that the food crisis is one of three global crises that we see today. It is important that Norway also undertakes constructive measures to increase food production. In that perspective, recruitment for the peasantry is very important. When it comes to recruitment, there are some elements that we know work. A reasonable salary level is important. Having good welfare arrangements is very important when it comes to recruitment, but also measures that can provide security and security for long-term investment. It's very important that you have long-termity in terms of ownership of the production area. It is a very important item. Therefore, we should have wished that the Government and the Storing majority had a more open hold for a broad discussion of this theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1898	The proposers have suggested the need to develop a strategy to give active farmers greater opportunities to own the areas they operate. They are calling for a fundamental and open debate on this and want, among other things. the debate shall address any consequences that exist between the concession obligation, the dwelling obligation, the price control and the extraterritorial rights on the one hand and the land leased on the other. As you can see, this debate is largely based on the same basis as the previous case on today's map. Also, I think it's valuable for the farmer, and for society, that the farmers own the land they run. This in most cases contributes to a long-term idea of operation and investment in the property and has been one of the main objectives of property policy for many years. The structuralisation that has taken place in recent years, with an increase in the rent share, can in the long term help to weaken this long-term thinking. It is therefore necessary to keep an eye on what is happening. At the same time, it is an important societal task to contribute to the granting of access to production areas to active food business operators, whether this access is ensured by means that contribute to the transfer of land to own or by renting land. Many farmers today prefer rental contracts to the purchase of additional land, and they can have maximum rational reasons for their choice. With this in mind, I am doubtful about what could come out of putting work into a separate strategy to ensure farmers greater opportunities to take over. Are not the professionals themselves, in the specific case, closest to making this choice? Why should they be prevented from choosing even if, through other means, we can ensure that the soil is well managed as a land leased property in a long-term perspective? These include: important questions that I had foreseen for the proposers to have included in the evaluations. It is not good to understand where the proposers will go with this proposal. I see the recording from the proposers as almost a question of how much the rent should be. In my opinion, there is a question that needs to be considered, but I have difficulty imagining that we are well served to find an exact balance point that meets both the need for flexibility for active nutritionists and the need for long-term thinking. I don't think there is such a balance point that can be clearly defined, and I don't think it's the Storting that should take a stand for this either. We're facing a complex question, and there's reason to be careful about having absolute answers. I would also like to refer to senior researcher Ola Flaten at the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research, which among other things. says the following about land renting in posts in the United Nations on 9 February of this year: ‘In our secret debate, you get the impression that the land problem is strange. But other countries also have a lot of rented land, including countries with a lot fewer property regulations than us." In my opinion, the challenges cannot be solved by forcing the sale of properties. Such a solution would at least erode ownership. We're facing complex questions, as I said, and there's reason to be careful about having absolute answers. Having said this, I would like to make it clear that I do not like the development of the increase in the proportion of land rent. Therefore, in order to stimulate long-term operational arrangements with certainty for the production base over time, I would like to propose, in the context of proposals for amendments to the rules on compulsory employment, to propose changes to the rules on compulsory employment. The proposal assumes, as several have mentioned, that the obligation to operate shall be permanent and that owners who do not wish to operate themselves may rent off contracts for a period of at least 10 years. I also assume that such agreements must be in writing and that they must lead to operationally good solutions. I also believe that the sharing provision – where conditions are regional and local – should be able to be used rationally, in order to allow sharing where good rationalisation is achieved through sharing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1918	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1921	The council was concerned that the individual user would be able to choose whether he wanted to buy or rent land, and I fully agree with that. But the problem today is that you don't have the opportunity to buy land. Because of the structure and the law around the properties, there is almost no additional land on the market. In those cases where a property owner of a certain size would choose to separate land and sell to a neighbor, the state would intervene and say that this is its own viable property. The councils themselves have intervened in such a case in Trøndelag. Governments admit that the large proportion of land rented has become a problem. So my question is, when did this become a problem, and when do we cross a line in relation to the fact that the Norwegian farmer is to be regarded as a tenant, because many farmers today are renting much more land than they own?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1929	What I tried to underline in my post is that this challenge is important to address, and this challenge is important because it affects the operation of many farmers. I'm one of those people who's also worried that the proportion of land rented is going to increase. That's why through the law I want to facilitate that we can get a different development over time. At the same time, I must stress that this question is extremely difficult to answer. In fact, there are many people who have a property that they don't run themselves, but they still want to own it. I just have to stress that I find it complicated to say as an absolute fact that this earth has to be sold, because at least we do not exercise ownership. Therefore, I believe that we need to proceed a little cautiously here, and I find it difficult to see what the answer from the proposers is in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1936	The farmers themselves have given an answer to the Agriculture Investigation Office: 60 pst. believes that it should be easier to separate agricultural land for sale. That's the simple answer that the farmers themselves give. But I read a very interesting comment in the attitude from the majority constellation. It says: ‘The increase in the proportion of leased land shows that the property structure and the operating structure must be harmonised in the long term. The majority consider that, in view of this, there is a need to increase the rate of turnover of agricultural property.» I do not record the same interest in the statements of the Council of State or in his reply to the Committee in order to increase the rate of turnover of agricultural property, or to harmonise the property structure with the operational structure. Does the Council of State agree with the observations made by the majority in this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1948	I fully agree with the comments of the majority in this matter. If the representative Hansen heard my post, he heard that at the end of my post I said that: ‘the sharing provision — the regional and local context of which requires it — should be capable of being used rationally, in order to grant a divisional authorisation where a good rationalisation is achieved through the division’. That's the opening for today as well. It is possible for municipalities to assess when dealing with such cases. And I know that in many municipalities good judgements are made on these questions that also lead to the sale of properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1958	The problem with ten-year leases is that farmers who want to invest in the future see the need to build new and larger buildings, and you have to make a choice based on the soil and land situation you have – and that is often a good deal of land. The problem is that when you're going to invest, you have to have a longer horizon than 10 years, like 20 years and preferably 30 years. You often get the loans in 20 years. We have examples of farms where the earth has been driven for both 10 and 20 years, and that one so wants to sell the earth to the one who has driven it – and then comes in a noble right that in a distant past had a good relationship with a nursery or something else on the property, and that throws the whole thing. Does the Council of State consider that it is good enterprise policy and good profitability to leave it with the land that has been a part of the basis for the holder for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1965	Firstly, I would like to agree entirely with the representative from Kongshaug that for farmers – and many of them, fortunately, want to invest in their equipment – it is important to have control over the soil, either through ownership of land or through long-term renting of land. That is why we will propose that the ten-year rule should apply to rent in the future, which I believe will be an improvement in relation to today's legislation. It is also the case that some of this legislation is called into question when we get discussions on such issues as: globular ejaculation. In fact, we have to take account of other factors than the situation of leased land versus operating conditions. However, the starting point is that rational holdings should continue to be given priority, and this will also be the starting point for the law of nobility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1977	All through the evening, we've heard the Council say that the increased share of land rent is a problem, and that it's a challenge for the angry farmers who want to bet and who are going to be active in agriculture in the future. Then I want to ask a fundamental question, and that is: why can't the Center Party, which is to be a party for active farmers, and which – in its own eyes, at least – should be a party to preserve property rights, allow landowners and farmers who might want to rent to settle it themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1982	Unlike the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, we in the Central Party believe that we should take social considerations into account in the development of the agricultural industry. That is why we have regulations in the industry. That is why we have this discussion about property law and the legal instruments. And that's why we have discussions about concession law, housing law, the ban on sharing, etc. We believe that by having good and adapted property legislation in addition to the financial arrangements negotiated annually, we will find good solutions for agriculture in the future. In the vast majority of cases, Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers will benefit from it. On the other hand, they will not be served with a full release, which is the basis for many of the proposals available here. I would just like to stress that a complete release will completely change the structure of the Norwegian agricultural industry, something in which the Senterpartiet will disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1989	The situation with land renting in Norway is not a stable situation. It's a development that's moving fast. The rent has doubled over a couple of decades and is likely to rise to over 50 pst. -and maybe up to 60 pst. As time goes by, if you don't get reforms. So to this the government parties say that the property structure and the operating structure have to be harmonised. It would mean quite radical action in property structure legislation to achieve such harmonisation when we see developments going in the wrong direction. So the majority of the Council of State meets the alerted changes in living and working conditions, which come later in the spring. Does this mean that the Council of State will make proposals that will result in the long-term harmonisation of the property structure and the operational structure, as called for by the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e1996	As I said, I fully agree with that objective. It is an ambition one must have when a worker is working on policy – and not least when a worker is working on agricultural policy. I would like to stress that I agree that in recent years we have seen a development that has accelerated in terms of land rents. Interestingly, the party of the representative Hansen has also been in government for some of the years we have seen this development. So it's hard to say that this is a responsibility that a single party can take. On the other hand, in the context of property policy, we in the Government have been committed to making proposals that meet the challenges that the agricultural industry will face in the future, and we also believe that we will take care of the legal instruments. We will, as I said, come back to that. Finally, the challenge is essentially the future development of agriculture. The government wants agriculture throughout the country. We want to have a channelling policy, and we want – not least – to maintain a varied operational structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2005	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2011	A lot has been said. I'm not going to cross this debate, but just briefly reflect on the concerns of the Council of State on how to deal with the question that there's obviously too much of the land that's rented. He's looking for a proper balance point. He reflects on what he thinks to be sold. At all, the Council of State reflects in a way that tells us that this is something he intends to regulate himself out of. All signals indicate that there will be more regulation. It worries me a little bit, because that means that the Council of State doesn't care that these are symptoms of a problem, and that he doesn't care about the problem. On the contrary, he believes that the medicine that has now been used for – yes, how many years – incredibly many years, and that with all the desired clarity has not worked, should seem to be just a little bit more to go to the screw. It doesn't seem very promising for the matter that we're waiting for – and it doesn't seem very promising for the debate that we're waiting for. I hope that the Council of State will spend time not only on how he can regulate himself out of the symptom and the problem, but that he is actually also trying to look at what might be the background to the problem, and look at how he can solve the challenges that exist. It's the only way out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2020	The representative Thommessen said that I'm looking for a proper balance point, what to sell, and what adjustments to use to get out of it. He stresses that he believes that there will be more regulation. I would like to stress that the representative Thommes should listen to what I say in my post. I said – and I'm going to repeat it again – that in my opinion it is a question that we should think about, but that I have difficulty imagining that we have earned an exact balance that meets both the need for flexibility and the need for active nutritionists and the need for long-term thinking. I also said that I do not believe that there is such a balance point that can be clearly defined, and that I do not believe that the Storting should decide on it. That's what I underlined. I would like to point out that when we are discussing the situation around the land problem, we all have to be nuanced, because there is no clear answer. There are two parties – the lessor and the lessor – and I am concerned that we should take care of both the lessor's interests and the lessor's interests. The lessor's interests are often such that a wish to secure the land is also in the future, the lessee's interests are based on a desire for an operating basis. There are no unambiguous answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2029	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2045	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2054	Now I'm going to promise that this is the last time I come up to the pulpit as the case rapporteur tonight with my slightly cold voice. This proposal that we are dealing with is a complex one. It is true that the state’s public opinion is areas for which the state normally has its base-box home, but then it is that the community has rights of use. This is regulated by the Mountain Act Section 2, which states that ‘the right shall be exercised in a manner consistent with rational use at any time and which is natural after the time and exercise’. And we all understand that in the term "time and opportunity" it is possible to add different content, and that of course this is a basis for jus. That's the problem the proposers are now dealing with here. Now it is the case that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has sent the so-called seat regulation to the hearing, and it is for treatment in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I understand. It is not there that the deportation of additional soils and the exploitation of hydropower are things that have to do with ‘time and hope’. The proposals are of the opinion that the solution proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not sufficiently meet the wishes of the Mountain Law on what is called ‘time and urgency’, and would like to see a broader debate in the Grand Duchy on this very issue. The proposers are also involved in so-called non-interventional natural areas and wish to discuss them more closely. Now it is the case that there is a permit for the development of a different kind without there being a fundamental discussion of what to do in these areas, with a view to allowing for development. The proposers also want to have a principal discussion around it. The majority of the Committee, all except the Right and the Progressive Party, would like the proposal to be annexed to the minutes. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that ownership gives a personal interest in managing the property in a long-term perspective, as set out below. the other issues that we have raised for debate earlier today. Regulation on seats and additional earths, etc. was sent to the hearing in June 2008. This proposal assesses the framework for the exercise of the right of use in the general public. In this opinion, the term ‘time and time’ was related to the right of use of the building and general government. As I said, deportation of additional soils is not a right of use in such contexts. Nevertheless, I understand that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has proposed some adjustments in current practice regarding the deportation of additional land. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food believes that these adjustments take account of new assumptions and operating conditions in agriculture. In the view of the Left, the planning and construction of agricultural roads in a non-interventional nature should be the basis for careful weighing. The ban on road construction has often led to re-growth and unavailability. It is important to make a thorough assessment of this and to have a non-consistent negative attitude. In this context, it is recorded that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Environment are discussing this and have commissioned the Directorate of Nature Management and State Agriculture to assess the need for the construction of forest roads against definitions, criteria and the data available here. I believe it is right to await this assessment before taking a new step in this matter. On the other hand, it is important to express from this pulpit that it is important that the work is prioritised, and that there is progress in it, so that one can get a result on the table, so that one can take a position on the principal aspects of this. Otherwise I expect the minority to come up with their arguments for their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2082	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review of the main issues. The term ‘time and opportunity’, as I see it, is, to put it mildly, a somewhat unbiased legal concept, so it is easy to understand that there can be different interpretations of this term, depending on what position you have. It is an overall committee which shares the view of the proposers that ownership gives a personal interest in managing the property in the long term and thus contributes to ensuring important social interests. I agree, while I can't push myself to mention that there are also examples of the opposite. Private property rights can also be managed very short-term, without me wanting to raise it as a matter of principle in this context. Otherwise, the Committee refers to letters from the Minister for Agriculture and Food of 18 February, where it is informed that a proposal for amendments to the regulation on seats and additional land, etc. were sent to the hearing in June 2008 and that the individual opinions on this matter have not yet been taken into account. Furthermore, in the same letter to the Ministry of the Environment, the Council of State refers to questions put by the proposers in relation to the non-interventional nature. I have noticed that the Council of State presupposes that this is a theme in which the State Agriculture Administration and the Directorate for Nature Management will jointly assess the need for forest roads against definitions, criteria and the data available for non-interventional zones and that work will be available during the summer. I assume that these assessments are made with due regard to the fact that those living and living up to these areas are not to be disproportionately disadvantageed. I have also noticed letters from the Norwegian Bondelag Committee dated 20 March 2009, which refer to the two issues at issue. on the forms of use consistent with the ‘time and availability’ for the deportation of additional soils is a right of use in the same way as the expulsion of seats In my practical life, I think this is going to be seen as action for the same purpose, and I would also ask the Council of State to bear it in mind in the further consideration of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2102	The Progress Party supports the proposalers' wish to have this issue addressed, and that we should also get a case to the Stortinget about this. As this case complex appears to me, the fairly unclear issues we are facing here are. Throughout the evening, we have had a debate on how to contribute to strengthening the earnings and ownership of active farmers and landowners in the future. Then this is a natural question to look at. I just have to admit for myself that this is a topic that I need to learn more about, and then I think it could have been a good idea that the Council of State, when he is now going to promote some things that, according to his own statement, are going to be part of and strengthen ownership and operational basis, also look at this issue. One should probably also start to look at the appropriateness by maintaining state opinion. It is a major legal issue that requires a thorough review. It is clear that, as there is a significant reduction in the number of users in rural areas, there will be increased uncertainty about the rights, including the general public. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State said that he had sent out the sitting order at the hearing. I will signal to the Council of State, when he has finished the hearing, and when he himself has drawn a conclusion, that he takes the time to promote a case for the Storting about this, so that the Storting can also join in and give his view. I include this in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2115	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2118	State surveys are areas where the state normally has the basic box house, but in which the villagers have strong rights of use. In Section 2 Fjellova expresses this in the following way: ‘The law governing public use is built or fenced which has been so right from an old age. The right shall be available in a manner consistent with rational use at any time, which is natural after the time and exercise.’;» The right considers that it is time for the legal status of the general good to be raised when the responsible department proposes a use that is more restrictive than the conclusion of a wide-ranging working group. For example, a majority in this working group concludes: that, in some cases, the use of waterfalls in general government for the production of electricity for the household needs of rightholders must be considered to be in line with the ‘time and time’. There has been a lot of discussion over time about the nature of the exercise that is in line with the ‘time and activity’. The right is of the opinion that the solution currently offered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not sufficiently meet the Mountain Law’s intention to allow use in line with the ‘time and urgency’. Among other things, I can point out that in a letter to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on 18 November 2008, the Norwegian Bondelag states that the Ministry is based on a misunderstanding when it is considered that a legislative change is necessary in order to be able to accept additional land as a right of use. In this context, in particular, we believe that the legal position of the general good should be discussed on a broad basis in Stortinget. The right also believes that the regulation in force in the field in general needs to be less bureaucratic. We therefore believe that the Stortinget should discuss different aspects of INON on a broad and principled basis. Intervention-free natural areas, INON, are areas with the absence of defined measures, such as: small-scale power plants. Of Norway's land area, 45 pst. Interact-free, with a total of 68 pst. be affected. The reason is that in a 1 km belt around a heavier technical intervention, specific measures cannot be initiated without reducing INN. Right, INON is a good indicator of the decline of Norwegian nature, and pristineness is a value in itself. But we're concerned that INON is used as a justification to deny often socially wanted actions, without the principal aspects of this being discussed by the Stortinget. We are critical that a cabin area is free of interference, while a simple tractor road excludes an otherwise desolate area from intervention! We note that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of the Environment will now discuss how information on non-interventional nature can be taken into account when examining applications for agricultural route planning and construction, and that this assessment will be ready during the summer. It's high time! I am pleased that a Joint Committee shares the view of the Right that ownership gives a personal interest in managing the property in a long-term perspective and that it contributes to ensuring important societal interests. It is therefore disappointing that the Council of State in its reply to the Storting expresses a passive attitude towards the intention of the proposal, which is to strengthen private rights in the outland and to red tape the management of Norwegian outland. The Right, together with the Progress Party, therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate regulations in the field, including those relating to so-called non-interventional natural areas and time and concept, with a view to strengthening private rights and promoting a case for the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2146	Unlike the previous proposals, I think this is a very relevant issue, which is a good reason to look into. Now this matter is in the process and within a track that I think is appropriate. It is also true that this is not a proposal that we reject or vote on. We'll attach that to the protocol. I feel that the state's public opinion is standing very strongly around in Building Norway. They are an important part of many communities. In combination with the mountain governments and local government, I believe that a system has been developed in Norway that is a good reason to call and take care of for the future. It ensures profits for local communities and rightholders and the opportunity to harvest nature, while ensuring free access to rich land resources for the wider community. Of the questions you're raising here, there's two in particular I want to point out. Without concluding, I would like to signal support and sympathy for what is the intention of the proposal – clarifying the concept of ‘time and urgency’. In my view, it is quite clear that the legislation in this field needs to be dynamic, so that the content is developed in line with the challenges you face at all times. An example might be a seater, which you have either not used in the past or where you have iced cheese. There may now be a need to build a more modern operating building to put in place a milking plant, and perhaps get to a know-how for the milking car to come up with. It is, in my view, a good example of the need to allow that type of use, because it is in line with the ‘time and urgency’. The other important thing here is the non-interventional areas, that's my opinion. This is not a case in which I have the whole and full history behind, but it is a concept that I often experience is used to say no to some measure that the municipality wants under the Planning and Building Act. In the cases that I have worked on this, I think that the concept has been used without it being well justified, and partly a strange approach. Despite the fact that some activity has been shown in the area in the past, related to light cab construction, to the holding of seats or to the operation of electrical installations, this has nevertheless been stamped as non-interventional areas in the map, and then further use of the sites is refused on that basis. The kind of use of that term, I think, we need to clean up, so that it doesn't form a kind of snitch, or a kind of snitch restriction on the use of the areas. Areas to be protected should be protected by the application of the law on nature protection, not by the use of more diffuse and bureaucratic concepts. On the part of the Central Party, we are basically looking forward to the political end of these important issues. I fully agree that this is a political matter more than an administrative matter. On the other hand, if that is a matter for Stortinget, I am more uncertain about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2159	Proposal for certain amendments to the Seat Regulation – ‘Requirement on Seats and Additional Earths, etc. in general government’, set out on 22 June 1984 — sent out at the hearing in June 2008, with a deadline for consultation on 1 November 2008. Several hearing bodies have been suspended and the last deadline was set at 15 December 2008. The consultation proposal was based mainly on the conclusions of the working group set up in 2006 to assess the framework for the exercise of rights of use in the general public. Nineteen hearing opinions have been received by the Ministry. What we are discussing here is an important legal framework that is not easy to go into. In the hearing, it was considered that the concept of ‘time and time’ is linked to the rights of use in the building and state spheres. Expulsion of additional soils is not a right of use in the two types of generalisation. The hearing draft was based here on Stortinget's treatment of Ot.prp. No 37 for 1991-1992 on new general laws and practices followed by the State on this basis. However, in the proposal for amendments to the seat regulation, the Ministry has proposed some adjustments to the current practice of deportation of additional land, taking into account new conditions and operational conditions in agriculture. I have not yet taken a decision on the individual hearing opinions. It is the Directorate for Nature Management that manages the non-interventional nature database in Norway — what is also called INON. Intervention-free natural areas are defined as areas one kilometre or more in the airline from heavier technical interventions. Roads, lines, watercourse interventions and major powerlines are examples of heavier technical interventions. I agree that strict requirements must be laid down for professional reports and information bases to be used as a basis for administrative decisions. In terms of non-interventional nature and forestry, we know that the INON areas affect over 30 pst overall. of the productive forest area. It is therefore necessary to find good balances that both safeguard the natural quality and enable the continued development of sustainable forestry. On this basis, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has discussed in several contexts with the Ministry of the Environment how information on the non-interventional nature can be taken into account when dealing with individual cases, for example: in accordance with the rules on agricultural route planning and construction. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall follow this up by looking at both the definitions and criteria for non-interventional areas, the data available for non-interventional areas and the need for forest road construction. A mandate has been given to the Directorate for Nature Management and the State Agriculture Administration. The two administrative bodies shall examine how such a balance can be made. I expect assessments from the two organs to be clear during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2175	The Council of State said in its statement that this issue raises many difficult and complex legal issues. We also see a significant change in the nature of agriculture. The head of the Industry Committee, Ola Borten Moe, felt that this was something we had to consider carefully. Is it so to understand that the Council of State will also involve the Storting in the conclusions that he has to reach after the consultation round?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2183	As I said, there are complicated issues that have been out on the hearing and that are now being considered. Of course, I cannot go into the assessments and hearing opinions in this regard. If the majority of the Storting wants a review in this case, it is of course so that the Storting can get this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2190	In a letter to the Committee, the Ministry and the Council of State indicate that there is work in bureaucracy on the themes of non-interventional natural areas and agricultural pathways, as well as public rights. The right-hand proposal on non-interventional areas goes beyond agricultural routes, and the Bondelag claims that the ministry is based on a misunderstanding of public opinion. My question to the Council of State will be as follows: can the Council of State guarantee that the work for which he is responsible takes care of the interests of the private sector and of democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2197	So, as I stressed in my statement, it is the Directorate of Nature Management that defines the non-interventional areas, and the Directorate of Nature Management is under the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We have worked with the Ministry of the Environment over time to find a solution to the questions raised here. We're not done with that work, and we're going back to it. My ambition is to find good and balanced solutions to the challenges posed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2204	Both individual representatives and organisations have come to the conclusion that, after the transformation of State-owned enterprises into state-owned enterprises in the 1990s, it has become more difficult for public authorities to deal with the matter. It is said that one has the impression that the State enterprise’s strategy is to weaken the general rights of agriculture and that this overrides the proper management of legislation vis-à-vis the beneficiaries. The level of truth in this can't be good for me, but if that is the case, it's clear that the cooperation and climate between State Forest and public rights holders is mildly bad. It's an unsustainable situation. In case this has a degree of legal substance in itself, what will the Council of State do as a general meeting in State Forest to remedy this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2211	I've also seen this kind of speculation in different media. I just want to stress that State Forest follows the guidelines that it has always laid down for their work, and I am sure that State Forest will do the same today. I experience that Statskog holds the public rights through the management of its properties, and I do not feel that those who care for the mountain government model disagree with it. So I'm pretty sure it's going to happen in a good way. But I'm aware of the issues that Kongshaug raises, and that's part of the dialogue that we have with State Forest as its owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2216	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2221	For the Right, it is important to see this matter also in a slightly larger context, which is briefly about where power is in our country. Since the end of the last century, perhaps as late as the 1880s, we have had a continuous development that is about centralization of power over state properties, over land and over communities. Large parts — or at least quite significant parts — of what is now the property of the country were previously managed as community buildings, where the towns had a natural right and a great decision-making capacity in relation to how it was to be operated. Since then, we have seen the development of institutions and large appliances that handle state ownership from above. These are the Directorate of Nature Management, the State Department of Nature and not least – at a very detailed level – the State Forest. I have also been told what was described as speculation at the end of the line change here, that is, that some private users feel – should I dare call it an assault – that Statskog is a tough institution to deal with. These are the signals we're going to take seriously. If we're going to be able to approach this in a different way, we're going to have to go in and do quite a lot of work on profound mentality changes. In fact, we must dare to transfer real decision-making from the heavy state actors – State Forest, the Directorate of Nature Management and the State’s Natural Supervision – to the local communities. These are larger and heavier local government, greater power for the mountain governments and greater power for the local government. The right has today presented a proposal for a representative on greater power to municipalities in relation to motorised travel in the outland. It's part of the same picture, and we should also consider transforming part of the general government into the community and moving power back into the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2232	No more people have asked for the floor and the debate on substance. So 10 is over. [[Footing, see page 2412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2248	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2264	It's a pleasure as case rapporteur to be able to put forward a very word-button and unanimous setting to build a new bridge over Upper Sund in the Drama, which is part of the Road Package The Drama, a road package that has transformed an entire city – which meant that two years ago the Financial Newspaper wrote that the Drama had gone from being harry to being hot, which has made Drammen have been able to take back the river and have made a development that makes the city more attractive, and which has made Drammen one price after the other for the environment, urban development, etc. There has been a huge development in the city, for the benefit of the inhabitants, after the Road Package Drama came and visionary politicians in the city council in Draman presented a plan that could transform the city from being a traffic machine to becoming an environmental city. It's enough to think that E134 was one of the few European roads that had the driveway directly into a car park, as it was through the Drammen, where traffic westwards went on the top of Brerene's square and eastwards on the other side of the square, down by the river. So now we get into place Upper Sund bridge. There's a little bit of cost here. Efforts have been made to bring costs down, but of course, the Storting agrees to get this work started, because, as the case-law states, it is important to get started ‘before the spring flame is set in motion’. This decision makes it possible for a person now to set up this bridge as soon as possible. However, I would like to remind you that there are still items in the Road Package Drammen that have not been solved. There are things that you have to come back to in other contexts. But today it is a good day for those who have fought for this road package, and who see – something overtime – that now the decisions are being fulfilled by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2275	It is rare that I agree with Trond Helleland from the Right as in this case. It's a pleasure day for some of us, maybe I should have preferred to say, too many of us, because finally there's a clear signal for the start of the Upper Sund Bridge in the Drama, with a quick start and a complete break in the fall of 2011. Brua is, as the representative of Greece said, the last part of the centre ring and one of many projects in what was called the Road Package Drammen. The road package Drammen was in its time an agreement between the state road authorities and the municipality of Drammen. A new main road system was clarified by the State in the Drammen area – E18 and E134. The municipality was given funding for locally important road links, walking and cycling routes. The original agreement was approved by the Drammen City Council in 1991 and confirmed by a major processing operation in 1993. All links were planned for 2005. Since we're now writing in 2009, it's obvious to everyone that the plans were far from optimistic. This can be seen in the Road Package Dramam as an example of many of the challenges that Norwegian transport policy has faced for a long time – delayed planning, significant cost exceedances, political governance problems and reduced funding rates. This is clearly described in the new national transport plan, as a result of neglected efforts over many years and under changing governments. So the Drammen road package had to be renegotiated as a result of this. The new completion of the Road Package Drammen was in 2008, with a new Upper Sund bridge in 2004. We see that it didn't work out that way either. A year ago, the project Obere Sund was stopped again because the cost estimate broke. Nevertheless, there is reason to rejoice at the government's proposals in the matter we are dealing with today. It is therefore proposed that, despite new, significant exceedances of costs, the development should now continue and that traffic should be opened up in the autumn of 2011. In 2011 Drammen celebrates 200 years. The new bridge is perhaps the best birthday press the city can get, because we're talking about significant traffic volumes, more than at the new four-field highway bridge, E18, and which is currently moving to a large extent inside the Drama center. We who live in the Drammen are proud of our city and the transformation the city has undergone in the last 10–15 years. It would not have been possible without considerable resources from many good forces in the state, state, municipality and business, in a committed partnership for environmentally friendly urban development. The state's contribution has come in many ways, from several departments, but I hardly insult anyone when I particularly highlight money from the Ministry of the Environment for the purification of rivers and money from the Ministry of Transport to clean up road traffic. Road package The Drammen opened the centre for the development of dwellings, car-free meeting places and passageways along the river. It also enabled major development projects to be launched towards the City of Bymarka, ensuring important open-air areas against degradation. Also, most Drammens will not have more than 10–15 minutes to mark both sides of the city in the future. At the same time, we got nature back along the riverbanks. However, the full effect of the road package is not achieved until all links are in place. New Upper Sund bridge opens new areas for environmental centre development on the south side of Drammenselva with close links to sports and activities on Marienlyst. In addition, with positive signals in new NTPs on port structure, it provides, together with Upper Sund, opportunities for further environmental quality in old and new centre and river residential areas. So the keyword is total and long-term. The Drammen road package is no longer a concept in state documents. It's a shame, because, as Trond Helleland was inside, there are two important links in the agreement, a new route between Drammen and Svelvik in Westfold and the connection of Konnerud to the rest of the new road network. The first is the responsibility of the state, the second is heavily dependent on the shoulders of local authorities. But we can get back to that. Let it lie today, and let's just enjoy the Upper Sun Bridge that now finally becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2292	Further expansion of the Upper Sun Bridge is important. Therefore, it has been necessary to deal quickly with the increase in costs, and I very much appreciate the fact that the Storting has also had the opportunity to deal with the matter as quickly as one has done. The project offer process has finished several rounds. The goal is to achieve a reduced cost for the project. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, and the increase in costs compared to the previously known size is 15 pst. I have assumed that there is a limited potential associated with a new supply competition. I have also stressed in my assessment that a possible interruption in the supply competition will lead to a one-year delay in the project. In that case, it would mean an additional delay in the development of the project, which I consider unacceptable. I am, therefore, very pleased that the Committee, in its vote, agrees with the Government's proposal that the project be carried out on the basis of revised cost estimates. I assume that the brewing work can start in the month of March/April this year, and that the project can be opened for traffic in 2011. It will be a good contribution to the anniversary celebration in Drammen in 2011 and another part of the facelifting Drammen has gone through in recent years – a facelift that both state, region and not least the municipality itself have been offensive to. Today, the Drammen environment is environmentally friendly, pleasant and good. In the future, we also need to help you complete the remaining projects in the long term to get the package in place – finally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2303	Then no more from Drammen and Buskerud have asked for the word for case no. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2319	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time that will be limited to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2328	The proponents of the Progress Party have put forward various proposals to address the crew crisis in the police. As rapporteur, I have to say that it has not been possible to bring together the Committee in addition to a general observation that the rapporteurs address many important issues. An overall committee also acknowledges that there is a major manning challenge in the police. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, stress the need to have good dialogue procedures with employees’ organisations and are satisfied with the Government’s efforts to strengthen the police. Furthermore, reference is made to the importance of local recruitment and how local wage negotiations can be used to promote careers. The majority believe that pay issues need to be addressed under the existing contract and are otherwise concerned with how civilians can relieve police-trained personnel. Furthermore, different policies for a more active senior policy are highlighted. The majority refer to the police directorate's responsibility for ensuring the necessary competence and knowledge transfer within the department. The majority propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. The minority in the Committee, the Advance Party and the Right do not share the majority’s satisfaction and feel that the police are in a crisis without the Government taking the necessary action. As late as January, the Minister of Justice stood here in Stortinget and accused the opposition of black paint and thought he had a good dialogue with the Police Union. However, there is little now to suggest dialogue. It is the announced political demonstration against the Government coming Wednesday a clear expression of it. The minority is very concerned about the acute situation between the Government and police officers. Dialogue is the government's responsibility and a prerequisite for finding solutions to today's manning crisis. The minority demands that the government now assumes responsibility for the police being able to operate as normally as possible again. Last week, new alert bells rang about police developments. Then the Riksadvokat called for an alarm because the time spent dealing with violence only increases: from 86 days in 2006 to 137 days now in 2009. This is alarming since an overall collapse has stated that violence should be given priority. In addition, long waiting is a great impression for the victims. Strong societal reasons suggest a rapid and cash response to violence. The Minister of Justice's many statements that the Government will hard hit this type of crime come in a strange light after that. From the police districts, we now hear that the new operating budgets are not going to continue the level of operation last year. At the same time, increasingly tough priorities are reported at the country’s operational centres in view of the tasks that can be undertaken. It's not a matter of course that the police can come. This creates people's insecurity, and it's particularly difficult when the guard districts are large and the time of the call is long. Then the threshold is raised further because when the police can move out and what they can move out on. I'm not exaggerating. This is a detailed description of today's situation in Police Norway. I'm sure you've got a good shot at the Police College. The same applies to the DNA reform when it works as intended, but the proposers and the Right call for new government intervention to get the police better back on track. A motivated police force is society's foremost weapon in the fight against crime. It had to be a financial crisis to lure the first admission of the police crisis from the current government. New civil positions are good, but the minority in the Committee is concerned with the need to explore new measures to strengthen police recruitment in the districts, the urgent need to clarify civilian tasks, and to step up such positions in order to further increase police capacity. We need to train more, but in the meantime, there needs to be much more offensive efforts on the seniors, which represent long experience and very valuable expertise in the police action. Remuneration systems also need to be further developed as a tool for achieving targets and results in the police. On behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, I take up the proposals No. 1-4, and I would also like to signal that the Right will also support proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox The right does not find it right here to address ordinary pay and pension issues, but assumes that the Government is aware of the responsibility of the State which the negotiating counterparty has in this context. I also assume that the Progress Party itself will come back to the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2354	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has drawn up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2357	I would like to start by saying that we are facing a very difficult situation – a situation in which we have seen a negative development over the last few years in terms of processing time and the percentage of clarification. We have e.g. a situation in the Oslo Police District where the budget increase has been quantifiable, not only during this government, but also under the Bondevik II Government. They have increased their budget by well over 50 pst. in the last eight years. Nevertheless, we now have a negative development on some measurement parameters. I believe it is unacceptable when the time for dealing with violence is increasing. I look forward to the explanation of this when the lawyer gets an answer from the state attorneys to that question. Since 2005, we have contributed more than 850 new nationally-based annual works, but experience that recent developments have been negative in several areas of activity in several police districts. The police situation has been a priority of this government for the entire period, both with a sharp increase in the number of students at the Police College and in the number of civil servants. We have already fulfilled half of the civilian posts that were thought to be necessary according to the crew report ‘Police against 2020’, which was presented last year. – I just want to mention it as a backstop to today’s challenge. One of the reasons we've had a negative development lately is that the members of the Police Joint Alliance are now protecting their leisure time. The police’s work situation – and tasks – is sometimes unpredictable. This is the inherent nature of police action: you have to deal with what happens when it happens. This is also the reason why the police have been exempt from the employment regulations on working time and overtime since 1956. The current provisions have been negotiated in cooperation with the various actors within the network. I would like to point out that the Joint Association of Police is allowed to refuse to work overtime and thus be ordered. It is strange when, on the one hand, the members of the Police Union protect their leisure time, while through the media they promote solutions where they will have an agreement to work significantly more than today's agreement provides. We are now facing a situation that no one is worthy of. It is important for the red-green parties to find a dialogue track where you can relate to the rules of the labour market, while at the same time getting a step forward in the relationship between the state and the police community. It is absolutely essential for the community to follow the rules of the game between the social partners. It is inconceivable for the Government to put this into play, especially since we are now facing the greatest economic challenge of the modern age, how many feel insecurity. All those who feel insecure about their job deserve a government that clearly supports the framework of working life and the long tradition of free pay formation. Unfortunately, the largest opposition party in the country is bombing. This is also the background to the fact that we do not support any of the proposals in the case. However, I am very pleased that the Right in its comments is so clear that it is within the social game rules the dialogue track must exist. I believe that an invitation from the Minister of Labour and Inclusion to sit down and negotiate compensation in relation to a new regulation to regulate rest time is a good sign. Then, too, the Police Joint Union has an arena where they can promote claims without conflicting with the duty of peace. This also means that you can move the dialog from the media into the right forums. I would like to remind you that the Joint Police Association has not yet made any formal demands. Finally, I would like to comment on some of the proposals promoted by the Right and the Advance Party, which are quite similar in their design. When it comes to having a plan to hire more civilians, I think the police's own crew report 'Police against 2020' gives a good picture of it. I just want to remind you here that we have granted money to far more civilians this year than what was required by both the opposition and the Police Joint League before Christmas. Proposals have also been made to start an investigation into the tasks that can be carried out by civil servants. I believe this has been well taken care of by the work that is now being done by the consultant company AGENDA. These include: review resource allocation in relation to core tasks, so that priority, allocation and efficiency of total resources can be better achieved. The last proposal I would like to comment on is that of better seniority. The police directorate now has some experience of this in some selected police districts. I believe that the experience that is positive should be easily transferable to all police districts. I would finally recommend Stortinget to follow the majority position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2392	In today's Evening Post, on the first page, it says: ‘Enterprise bullies private police’ And on the other hand, ‘Private investigation. Enterprises are increasingly dropping out of reporting losses and theft. The police don't give them any help anyway." In the newspaper there are several pages about the private people who have to do the police job. It goes on to say that only 10-20 pst. The police report is reported by the warrants, and a large proportion of those who are reported to the police are simply hospitalised. This is the reality of the day. Why have so many given up — both the common man in the street and the private business? The police will not come, or if it is being reported, the percentage of information is so low that it is wasted time to report. Private security companies take over, and they are soon the only ones visible in the cityscape. The police themselves are experiencing a serious crew crisis today. There is a lack of crew on several fronts, and visible presence, especially in the cities, is unfortunately lacking. Today, the police's goodwill goes largely to overtime, and especially during the weekends, many police districts have trouble filling up their watch lists. The fact that the Progress Party and the Government do not fully agree on the instruments is far from correct, but the Government should now really address some of these issues that are listed here. Unfortunately, more and more people have left the police and found other jobs. It's expensive to train new policemen. You also lose a good share to other agencies, or they start in private security companies. Unfortunately, 70 to 90 officials leave each year. In addition, many of them go because of age. It's expensive and time consuming to replace these. It should therefore be possible to keep more people sitting in their jobs by perhaps going a little beyond the age limit. All it takes is for the government to extend a little bit and show some kindness, as well as put a little more money and some incentives on the table. In addition, there are probably also many tasks that could have been done by others, whether civil servants or companies. That way, many policemen could do what they're actually trained to do today. I mentioned in a previous case the recent trial that was in my district, Gjøvik-Lillehammer, where there were so many policemen that the district was largely emptied of police officers during the day and on weekends. Finally, I would like to say that I am aware that the Council of State and the Government have taken up some of the proposals that have begun, and they should be very grateful for that, but in order to resolve the crisis properly, all the points of action included in the document should be taken into account. I refer to the suggestions that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2417	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2420	Let me first establish, and I hope that more people agree with me, that Norway is a safe country – safer than many other countries with which we can compare. That doesn't mean it's not a challenge. Of course, people are subjected to violence, assault, robbery and other types of crime, and every one of them is to be taken seriously. And the government does that every day. Since we took over, we have increased the police budget by NOK 2.5 billion. That's $1 billion above the price rise. When we took over, there were 300 police students. Now it's 552, and that's all the system today can handle. We'll keep going. We have introduced a fully funded DNA reform. It's going to give an enormous amount of help to the police. We've reduced the paychecks so much that they're almost gone. It will increase the capacity of the police districts, especially in Oslo. In the package of measures, we provided 460 new civil posts. Never has any previous government done that. There are permanent posts, and that gives us 250 police posts. We're going to get more police posts in Oslo. We have taken action to keep more seniors in the police. Then I expect the opposition to show humility and balance in the debate. After all, it's all this opposition that starved almost the whole system, including the police. There were 300 police students when we took over. Today we have 552. That's the numbers we're struggling with today. It takes three to four years, maybe five, from a police student coming into school until he or she's finished training to do a job in the streets of Norway. Every day, we are prepared to move on with measures to strengthen the police, to make Norway even safer and an even better country to live in. We invite the opposition to support all the measures. I appreciate the fact that the previous speaker from the Advancement Party was about to give commendation to the Government and the Ministry of Justice. We need the opposition and the position together to make Norway safer, not to make people unnecessarily unsafe. Finally, I would like to say that Norway is a safe country. We don't have to get from Stortinget's pulpit to send unnecessary signals that make people insecure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2429	I agree with the latter that there is no need to make people insecure unnecessary. You shouldn't. But at the same time, we can't pretend that the situation is 100 pst. as it should be. Let me do some examples. In Oslo police district, the percentage of clearance for last year was down in only 19.4 p.m. Open drug cases were halved in the last quarter of last year compared to the previous year. If you take a walk around central Oslo, I don't think there's a shortage of opportunities to make sure you take those who are in the open market. It's probably just to refer to the reports of the Evening Post the last two or three days to verify this. I should perhaps remind the representative Chaudhry that when the Bondevik II government took over from Stoltenberg I, the number of students was down to 240 and 360 when Stoltenberg II took over. There was a development. We fully support the further development of increased admissions, as this government has presented to the Stortinget. I think Thomas Breen really had a good situation description of the police situation and working conditions. The number debate can be used in so many ways. What's more interesting is what real resources the police actually have in relation to the past. We know that despite increased transfers of money, much has gone to other things than getting more policemen in the streets. To the draft representative: I have to say that when the package of measures from the Government came, I was very pleased with one point. It was to increase the number of civilian positions in the police to relieve them, so that the police can use their powers on what they are going to do, namely police work. It should continue. The same applies to senior policy. There's still the opportunity to make sure that people who want to move on get a chance to do so. In fact, in a situation where the labour market is tightened up, there are opportunities to interfere with quite a number of police officers and police service women who are currently ‘in exile’, i.e. working elsewhere. I attend so far that the Council of State, the Minister of Justice, says something in that context. It is not for nothing that the Ministry of Justice is one of the oldest departments in the country. It's simply because one of the central tasks of the state is to provide people with security. What is a challenge – this has been going on for some time and is a bit independent of government – is that we are still at risk of increasing the privatisation of the law. Then it comes to a point that the police in people's eyes are no longer what it should be. Then it is extra unfortunate that we have such a long-standing conflict between the employer and employees. That is why I agree that we here from Stortinget should be careful about getting involved in what is involved in the issue of wage fixing. However, point I of Document No. The 8th motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, we believe that we can support it with boldness. It's about dialogue. I would also like to hear how, if necessary, the dialogue between the government and employees is going. One explanation of vote: the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the joint proposals from the Right and the Progressive Party and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2446	The proposers address many important issues in the matter we are dealing with today. When it comes to commenting on the various proposals, I will be very careful to refer to the majority's comments in the attitude. That is what we in the Center Party agree with. However, I would like to take the opportunity to add some comments to what is referred to as the manning crisis in the police. We have undoubtedly had a difficult situation with regard to the staffing of the police. The reports of scarce resources and low manning are many. Some of it can be attributed to the fact that policemen little longer want to work as much overtime as is assumed. This has helped to make the major underlying manning problems very clear. Ordinary service is based on the use of overtime, and that by ordering a job, after you have already been to work or have a day off due to previous work. The police are prepared to work extra when needed, but they become frustrated when this becomes the common everyday life. No plant can survive for a long time without causing serious damage. Instead of letting the debate focus on the responsibility for how it has become, we do well to acknowledge that there is a gap between the expectations we have for the police and the extent to which the police are able to deliver. We politicians, both at large and in government, have contributed to this over several major periods. Much indicates that we have been more good at imposing new tasks on the police than at granting money in line with them. What we in the Center Party will warn against is a development in the centralization of tasks and that the first way is to shut down labour offices in order to make the budgets go up, as has already happened in several places. Perhaps in some places you will be able to maintain satisfactory preparedness, but a lot is also lost if we get away from the model with a locally anchored police. The districts, with large distances, notice this in particular. Both prevention and crime prevention require local knowledge. Contact with the inhabitants and proximity is also an important element in terms of service and availability. It is a fact that the red-green government has increased the police budgets by considerable amounts, as previously mentioned here tonight, since it occupied the government premises. In 2009, as mentioned earlier, a record recording of new police students and 460 new civilian positions in the police force was organised. In addition, DNA reform is being followed up, and absolutely necessary investments are being made in the context of a new emergency network. The strengthening of police budgets must continue in the coming years. When the major schools at the Police College are ready for service around the country in a few years, police districts need resources to employ them. What must not happen is that as many or more experienced police officers and women disappear because they no longer power the work situation. As the Minister of Justice said at the national meeting of the Joint Police Union, the Central Party also sees the need for a comprehensive review of the operational and resource situation in the police. We should also make sure that we use the resources correctly. Police organizations are absolutely necessary co-players here and are also promised to be included in the team. We're looking at this in the Center Party up until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2468	The basic question here, regardless of the lot, is not who's best in percentageing, or who's best in numbering. The basic question is the public’s sense of security or non-security. As everyone who pursues politics knows, the essence of politics is at least 50 pst. psychology. Therefore, there may be specific measures that make a difference. Some of them have received praise from the Government, for example: providing many civil posts – 460. I'll give you some credit for that, too. But the government should have no credit for having in the Hordaland police district a senior measure that only includes some of the seniors. The footballers are not included in senior policy, but the tops are. Yes, it is quite right that others have been involved in: with wise senior policy you can get a lot of police force. It is also true that the government does not need to get praise when in the fourth year of its period it has to operate Bolshevik history – as I have said on this pulpit before – about the period before it existed. So let me take it for the nth time, since it looks like this habit doesn't go over: it was a low recording at the Police College from the Bondevik I government, through the Stoltenberg I government and into the Bondevik II government's first year. Then there was an escalation in the last years of the Bondevik II government to 290 and 360. And the Party Left, which I represent, then proposed a stepping-up plan at the level that is now valid for the current year. Left's happy. So I would like to say that anyone who clicks through the budgets of the Great Britain for these years will find that, for example. The Labour Party did not promote alternative proposals for the Police College. Anyone with the minimum political memory will know that the Minister of Justice was a creative and active person in most areas, but not when it came to admission to the Police College. One year when the Workers' Party made a budgetary settlement with the Bondevik II parties, there was one field of priority, and that was the courts. So now you should start dealing with the present and not rewrite the past in a way that I once again call Bolshevik history. This feature – trying to blame the past, as you weren't even active in these areas – is very bad for someone who is responsible and powerful. Then I'm going to go to be constructive – because there's reason to be – after this little visit. Let me be very specific – the representative Nistad was involved: it is quite possible in this city, Oslo, how many feel that there are too few policemen out there – let me use the local knowledge I have through having lived here for many years; we know, of course, the ratio that is needed to show more policemen, so that there is more physical security, for example. at important times of the day, in exposed parts of this city — e.g. to use 40 of the 100 civilian positions given to Oslo Police District to release them approximately. 20 police officers in the district court approximately daily, releasing 20 others from administrative duties at police stations. The 40 will be able to make a significant difference in visibility with an eight-year tour, as it is in the police. These margins I know very well about. It doesn't require the world's biggest budgets to do it, but it's a wise policy to do it. Another measure to create confidence in a conflict situation is at any time to initiate and implement career paths and career plans for the police foot soldiers – those who are out there among people, those who think this is important – and to give them the experience that when they enter this part of the job, where they meet people in very different situations, they know that they are rewarded careerally for doing so, they get the skills to do it. This does not require large budgets. This requires active management to simply use the heads and resources that are there, and it requires the very insight that is in creating trust. So finally, once there is a clear lack of trust between the current government and the police organizations, I will be the first to say the following, as I have also said before, at the meeting of the Police Union at Røros: in Norway we are acting within the rules of the labour market. However, it is the law of the rules of the labour market to sort in such a way that some measures are put in place that are reliable. It will, I think, be seen as very trusting to make sure that the footmen of the police at long speed actually experience that their careers are rewarded when they are out among people. And I'm absolutely sure it'll be seen as trustworthy if you take the senior measures seriously, as pointed out by other representatives here. When it comes to voting, the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 to 4 by the Party of Progress and the Right and proposal No. 5 from the Progress Party. When we do that, it's not because it hasn't been a dialogue before, but we're concerned that it's going to be a dialogue. I myself have tried to put some practical content into what the dialogue can be, and so it will also be expressed in the Left's vote here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2487	Let me first say that the government takes the police's duties, the situation and the opportunity the police should have to do their job, very seriously. I believe, however, that in some cases a picture is created that gives a false impression of the actual situation in the police. There are, as the representative Breen was also involved in his post, more police officers now than ever in the entire history of Norway. From 31 December 2005 to 31 December 2008, there was an increase of 850 annual works in the police and relief services. The budget has increased by DKK 2.3 billion over the period 2005-2009. However, if compensation for wage and price increases is deducted, the increase is more than NOK 1 billion. I'm not sure how much the Bolsheviks increased their police budgets – it was probably significant at the time too – but this is not Bolshevik history, these are the facts. Only in 2009 have the appropriations for police and police authorities increased by over DKK 1 billion. In addition, the additional appropriations adopted in December 2008 increased the budgets of the police districts by 52 million. kr. It is true that the escalation to the police high school began under the government council of Dørum, but the increase still has a significant impact after the government change. And the admission to the Police College has never been as high as it is in 2009 – in a total of 552 students. At the same time, we have one of the biggest investments in the police force in Norway's history, namely a new listening-proof emergency network for all the emergency seats. The situation in the police has been a challenge for several years, simply because it has been trained for few policemen over several years. Last fall, the situation got significantly worse because the police officers, as was said from the pulpit here, seem, to say it in a fine way, to have decided to protect more about their leisure time by not taking on overtime guards voluntarily. In the opinion of the Ministry, the Police Directorate’s report ‘Police against 2020. Police staffing and competence needs’ means a good basis for assessing the manning needs of the police and officers’ seats in the future. The draft budget for 2008 also followed up the recommendations made by the report by increasing admission to the Police College. In addition, significant increases in appropriations have been made, including: to the foreign field and to the fight against financial crime in the Oslo Police District. It provides for the possibility for police districts to set up many civil annual works. It shows that the Government takes seriously the recommendations made in the report. The Action Package has set up 460 new civil posts for the Police and Lone Civil Service. I am pleased with what was said here in the praiseworthy order of the opposition on this commitment to civil service to free police officers from tasks that do not require police training. 460 new civil posts allow some 280 police officers to be released for operational work. This applies, inter alia, to: police officers in arrest, carrier, border inspector and auditor positions, but also duties requiring other specialised competence. The representative Dørum is absolutely right when he says that there are certainly other tasks that it is possible to entrust to civilians to release additional police resources. Here, I think we're pretty in line. Nevertheless, 460 new civil positions are in fact more than what was required, among other things. from the Joint Police Association, which asked for 200-300 civilian posts. The police have seen large increases in resources in recent years, but at the same time it is essential that we manage to use resources well here, as in other public areas. The consulting firm, AGENDA, commissioned by the Police Directorate, to carry out an analysis of the use of resources in the police. The first phase has been to examine the amount of resources used for the remuneration and renting of premises. As the Stortinget has previously been informed, several phases of this work will be carried out. Looking at the absolute best use of resources is an important part of the effort to free up police resources and make the job the best possible. Work on the operational analysis, supporting an expert group and a reference group in which the civil servants’ organisations participate, will be part of this work, which makes us see that the resources are used optimally. I agree that there is a need for more police officers. As mentioned above, this will be solved as the coals of the Police College come out. It is unfortunate that there has been a negative trend in criminal proceedings in certain areas. In particular, it is worrying that the process of dealing with violence is increasing. These matters shall be given priority, and the Advocate General has also seized this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2509	It was interesting to hear the Council of State explain the reality of the justice sector. He does so in the same way as the representative Breen did, by pointing out that the Government has now committed itself to addressing the challenges you have. At the same time, at all events, I have the feeling that there is a daily reference to negative conditions in the sector that could probably have been solved in a reasonably short manner. Nor is it a problem to give the government credit for the effort that has actually been made, but what I find remarkable and a little strange is that there is such a misunderstanding between the alleged effort of the Government and its own level of ambition in resolving crime. Because in the budget proposition promoted by the Government, there is an ambition that six out of ten criminals should go free. That means 38 pst. must be provided with clarification. Isn't it quite defensive, seen in the light of the enormous efforts of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2516	I have to say that I fully agree with what Breen also said in his statement, that given the huge increase in resources in this sector, the results are not good enough. We have to spend the money even better, we have to get more back for the money. The percentage of information is one of those measures. But it is a fact that when the budget has been increased by $2 billion since 2006, it also gives the police greater opportunity to do their job. There's, of course, a limitation in this, how many policemen can you get in when it's just not trained enough over many years? The police directorate's report – The police against 2020 – I believe it provides a very good basis for what kind of bet we have to make in the future. And then, of course, there's a little bit of a special situation right now. There is a middle settlement right at the door, the police organization is quite on the offensive. It's going to be exciting to see what Unio demands, because I guess if you have a claim to, for example. working time and wages, they come through the normal rounds of negotiations to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2521	The representative Thomas Breen finally admitted today that the situation in the police is serious. After all, it is not everyday food to get that kind of concessions from the government parties. There is therefore an enormous dissatisfaction in the police with the Government today and the great absence of dialogue in the difficult situation that exists today. But it's kind of strange, and hard to understand, that the government is laying out the budgets as if they were going to be able to solve most of the challenges in the police. It doesn't work that way. Increased admission to the Police College, investment in emergency networks and DNA is important, but it is clear that it does not help with the police operating budgets. So I'm out after the Council of State explains how it's possible that the Government believes that the 2009 budget provides room for hundreds of new posts, when I, for example, He has just been in Sogn and Fjordane, and there the police chief says he must have 14 unoccupied posts throughout 2009, for his operating budget is 2 million. kr less this year than it was last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2526	There has been a sharp increase in the number of years worked by the police. A total of 786 more are employed from 31 December 2005 to 31 December 2008. That's now a fact. It's not like these people are there or are not there; you can count them, and you pay them. Then we have a special situation, among other things. with discussion of overtime and working hours, etc. But what I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding is the call for dialogue. First of all, the ordinary Minister of Justice has explained in reply to the Storting what kind of contact and encounters he has with the police. But it is also true that all these questions are about employment, wages, etc. There are rather formal structures to deal with. They now come out of spring, and they would be exactly the same if the party of Aspacer had been in government. These are the rules we have to follow when it comes to the police, that they have to address the demands they have in the formal rounds, and then we can make a proper decision about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2533	The Council of State was about the increase in police resources within the Bolshevik era, and many of us probably have the impression that there were very large increases to the secret police at the time. We hope that it will get a little more visible expression if you increase the appropriations here at home! I really want to get into a specific case, which we've dealt with several times, in one of Oslo's central areas, namely along Akerselva. Drug trafficking is now under way. We know that there are many asylum seekers who are responsible for that turnover, and there seems to be no satisfactory cooperation between the foreign agency and the police to get them out quickly, or at least away from this area. Will the Council of State take an initiative to get this on a better footing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2540	Now I just have to say that this Council of States will probably be relatively short in the position he has. But the fact that Oslo Police District has received a significant part of these resource increases, including from the action package, is a fact, so in Oslo too it is possible to do more. However, there has been an expressed objective also from the Grand Mountains Council, and it will certainly be in the future, that there should be more visible police, more presence, the fight against visible crime, the one that people see, also because it has a general preventive effect. The fact that criminal acts take place more or less openly and more or less without intervention is, of course, one of the most debilitating factors. So here, I don't think the representative of the Seven and Justice Department is on any particular collision course. Here I think we agree quite as much.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2545	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2550	First of all, I want to agree with the representative Chaudhry, because Norway is, in fact, a very safe and good country to live in. We shall not forget that in this debate. So I mean that all of us who are here, actually take the manning situation in the police seriously. We have a common goal, but we like to have different tools. Although there are more involved in the police action than ever and the police budget has increased by DKK 2 billion between 2006 and 2009, the manning situation is a challenge. He has been for several years, simply because it has over time been too few policemen. A.T.B. also provided police officers with employment. That's what I think is good. In addition, the police begin to protect their leisure. One measure proposed by the Joint Police Association was to increase the number of civilian positions, as also mentioned in the Staff Report against 2020. The number one mentioned was approx. 200 civil settings, a level also Right was written at that time. PF requested 200, and the government delivered 460 civilian settings. It burns so absolutely rose, and not rice. The second big grab that PF agreed on is the increase in the admission of police students. In 2003 it was 240, today it is 560. So now we're on the right track to get enough police in the long term. But, as you know, it takes three years to expel the police, and it's easy to see in retrospect that we should have increased more from the day one when we took over the government. We should not forget that in May 2008, the PF recommended the negotiated wage settlement. PF's members voted in favour. So PF got its members in a hurry, and many at once got real, bad health and had to get sick, and one wanted to protect about leisure, unless one got pay compensation, then one was willing to work more. To that it is said that a trade union has both the right and the duty to fight for right pay and better conditions for its members, but all in all. The fact that PF is unyielding is a matter of fact, but that the Progress Party, the second largest party on the Stortinget, is going out and it seems very good to 'negotiate' wages and risk supplements other than ordinary tariff negotiations, says something about the working life and society we will have if it is those who come to power. The progress game also boasts that they have read and use the Trust Man by Einar Gerhardsen. Well, then it's probably like that with the reading skills there in the garden. Trade unions and organise employment, that the social partners negotiate wages when they are going and not by the way, and it is actually essential for us in the labour movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2568	It has been claimed from the opposition that we have a police force in crisis, that the government has not taken the necessary action, and that we are engaged in ‘Bolshevik history writing’. Then I feel the need to come up with some clarifying facts in relation to the police situation. From 31 December 2005 to 31 December 2008, there has been an increase in the number of posts in the police force, including posts in the PST, of 841. This does not include the civil positions, which I will come back to. Between 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2005, there was an increase in the number of posts of 681. In other words, a significant number of positions are occupied by the police under this government. In fact, if we look at developments in the nominal budget of the police and prosecution authorities, it was DKK 1.49 billion from 2002 to 2005, and for the period 2005 to 2009 it was DKK 1.79 billion – there too a significant increase. In fact, three, which several people have been in on earlier today: we have almost doubled the recording at the Police College since we took over. In fact, four of us followed up a very important demand from the police, namely to launch a manning study that resulted in the police against 2020, which concluded with the need for 3,000 new posts in the department. And I have to correct the representative Aspaker when she says that we first set up civil posts in the action package. It is true that they came there, but they did not come as a result of the crisis, they came as a result of the manning study that we ourselves had initiated. The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has been in the situation for Oslo, so I'm not going to light anything up. I will not underestimate the fact that we are facing both a demanding and challenging situation in the police. The main challenge is the need for more police-trained people. Another challenge is the negative development of the trial period, and we believe that the increase we have seen in the number of acts of violence is unacceptable. The conflict over pay and leisure that Heggø’s representative faced is also a challenge, and not least what the Council of State had to say about how the police can operate more effectively. The representative Dørum was concerned with the people's sense of security. I am very concerned that, as politicians, we too have a responsibility not to create more insecurity than there is room for. Then I believe that both opposition and position have a responsibility to give a correct picture of the situation, and not distort the facts and present misleading facts, as I experience too often in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2587	Now you were doing the party numbers again. The station manager in Molde pointed out that the councillor was in Molde last year, where he said he wanted to bet money on the horses that went best. The station manager now says, 'To put it that way, it's probably gone.' The police officer says he has to fire a number of policemen while he's going to hire six new civilians. He's not sure if there's any money to accept the offer of civil servants, so the net is actually going to be negative compared to the number of policemen. The percentage of drug trafficking is falling, so it appears that the DNA reform has been fully financed. Yeah, it was interesting to read the magazine this weekend -- it doesn't seem like the DNA reform is complete, and the signals we get are going to be subjected to further implementation for at least five to six years. So to the police officers who protect their own spare time. In 2005, it was extremely important to throw down the government at that time for it to be involved in the brutalization of working life. What is being done on the part of the Labour Party and the Government Party is totally disregarding the fact that the police officers involved are being ordered, for example. family is dying. There are cases that seem to be ‘protecting their leisure time’. In fact, I think the government parties can show greater respect for these policemen and women, who practice an extremely dangerous profession, and in fact refuse to meet on guard because they are too few and depend entirely on the weights to be able to do their job. Then I thought it was interesting to hear the representative of the Central Party, who was so concerned about the centralization of the police and the closure of LEN's offices. It's amazing, considering that the representative comes from a state where you're going to put down everything that's of janitor offices in the region that, among other things, the representative represents. If you think it's fraught with centralization and the closure of lumni offices in the most populous parts of the country, then I really wonder what the Center Party thinks is going to happen in those areas where there are almost no people living, which in good Norwegian might be called central part country. Then it is a great surprise on the part of the committee chairman that the representative Elisabeth Aspaker thinks it is strange that civil positions suddenly appear, not in the budget, but when a financial crisis has occurred. Because it's strange that there needs to be a financial crisis to realize that there's a crisis in the police force. I agree with those who say we should not paint black. But when police districts report that they're canceling people because they don't have money to pay, it helps very little that there are perhaps some civilian jobs coming to correct the deficiencies, which are then getting bigger, like, among other things. The representative of Aspaker has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2606	If we didn't know better, we could almost believe we lived on two planets, the opposition and the position when we discuss the police. Earlier this evening, the public survey conducted by the police last year has been referred to. Then we just have to say that with regard to the type of crime that affects most people – that is, theft, burglary, and armed forces – the police directorate writes in the report: ‘The impression of police involvement in the investigation of thefts, burglaries and armed forces is not good. Only 41 percent is quite or very satisfied with this. Here 53 per cent of the population sees efforts as poor.’ There's a clear feedback that the crime that affects most people is not followed up in a way that makes them feel safe. In the Right, we now believe that the crisis in the police is so serious that the state is failing one of its core tasks – the police – to ensure the security of people daily. When criminal statistics for 2008 were provided, the Minister of Justice took this almost to the point of income for the proper direction of today’s government. But we know that the truth is that because of scarce police resources, the police are taking on fewer cases now. We know that drug crime is short-lived, and it is reported from all over the country that there is a great deal of concern about not being able to check enough, not being able to do enough, and not getting serious crime in advance. It gets to build up, it gets to involve many, it creates big problems for those who get involved, and it creates big problems for society in the longer term. My colleague André Oktay Dahl was in and commented on it with civil positions. I think it's pretty amazing that the head of the Justice Committee is standing here and making it like it's normal in January – 26th. – will show up 460 new civil posts, when we had a general debate before Christmas, and where the opposition was told that we now got to stop the black paint, there was no crisis in the police. But the admission was only three to four weeks away. Then there were almost 500 new jobs. So I think that to the extent that someone has an explanation problem here, it's actually the government. But I'm going to challenge the State Council one more time in relation to this with dialogue. Because if it's the dialogue he's now claiming it is, why isn't it possible to get to the negotiating table with the Police Union and make a new, temporary working time agreement until we get out the bigger coals from the Police College? We know that 21⁄2 more hours a week could give us 500 new years of police work – which we really need if we're going to be able to get crime more in advance. It needs the inhabitants of Norway, and it should be done by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2624	It was the post of the representative of the Central Party that made me take the floor, and it was not to attack the representative, but to underline the point in what she said. I remember very well how the then representative Storberget in the last growing-up period almost nailed himself to each and every loner's office in Hedmark. I'm not going to go into it in detail, but for my part, I said it like that at the time that if the state church were to disappear, the police would at least not disappear as a representative of the state locally. Then we are in the midst of a debate that is now taking place in Norway. We had it back for a while on Follo Police District, where, after significant local protests, a strong centralisation reform was withdrawn, so that a fresh start was made. So we can go to another side of Norway, for example. To Troms, where one manages, with great distances and considerable challenges, to create a model that has a lot of sympathy. Several municipalities go together, one of the borrowers becomes an administrative director of the others. And you don't remove the local offices, you don't remove the present ones. I need to say this now, because I'm afraid that the government parties are secretly admiring the Follo model, and I'd like to come with it. I would also like to say another thing: I am just waiting for the government parties to believe that 27 operating centres in Norway are 17 too many, and that it can basically deal with one, for example. in Troms and Finnmark. I don't know what to think about, but I need to say it now. I hope this is science fiction, and that it's not going to happen. I hope you think that 27 operating centres – I reserve the right to some counties in Eastern Europe on which there is a process – cover more than enough, and have more than enough challenges, and that you have more to learn, for example. of the models developed in Troms, and as far as I know also in Sogn and Fjordane, which are based on how, by cooperating in a very ok way, police force is liberated, but at the same time retaining the closeness and legitimacy of the police. Because there are two things about that legitimacy: one is the role figure for what everyone agrees on, and that young people who are stumbled see the role figure in their community. The other is the ones that have to be on wheels to get them out. But we don't want a situation where it's so that the entire Norwegian police are on wheels all the time. So, in the choice between a "Terminator 3" police force and a locally based police force, which is also eaten enough to take organized crime, it's the last combination that the Storting has ever invested in. I just chose to take the word now, so that during the spring and summer you won't suddenly come up with some surprises, like the rabbit out of the hat. I prefer to keep some structures. Then I hope that the sitting state council, when he comes back with good health and vitality here in the hall, remembers all the efforts he made in the last growing-up period. In other words, close-up police, but also fed police – not so that you get centralisation in hiding and completely unrealistic dreams about how the country can be gathered, in a way that overlooks distances and geographical conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2639	I think I'll start by making sure the Storting that I know which planet I live on at least. I want to address a little bit of what the representative Syversen was in relation to the situation along the river here in the city, which is a very difficult and demanding situation. Now at least we've got a mobile police post on Grünerløkka that I hope can improve visibility, but also reduce the problem somewhat. We're also going to open up more police posts, including. on Oslo S, in a short time. The presence in the city rooms is very important, so that's what they say. Then I will also reply to the representative Dørum about what we are not going to do, and that is to jump on some of the proposals that, among other things, are. has been launched by the Right parliamentary leader, to give officers and doorkeepers police status. That's not our line. We want to fence around college education and the role of generalist. Here I think the representative Dørum can also agree with our line, as I know him from previous debates. But there is one thing that strikes me in this debate. So now we have a common agreement that the budgets have increased both under the Bondevik II government and under the Stoltenberg II government. We all agree that there are more annual works in the police than ever, and I can add a further dimension: overtime payments have been fairly steady both under former Minister of Justice Dørum and under the current Minister of Justice, which means that we have received about 850 more annual works in the last three years. Something has disappeared in relation to ATB, approx. 120 years, but we're left with a significant increase. Nevertheless, we see an extremely dramatic development in some areas in the last six months. It has to worry more than just the position what happens when compared to not just the protection of leisure time – more is happening. I'm very excited about what is revealed through AGENDA's investigation. I'm very excited about what is revealed after the Riksadvokat has reminded me and asked for an answer as to why development is going in such a negative direction with regard to the statistics on violence. It would have been eely if one could have somehow shown some of that concern also from the opposition. Because I think we all have a common agenda that we do not want this development. There has been enough of reality descriptions in the VG over a three-week period that shows a reality in police Norway that is not acceptable, where colleagues are opposed to the use of instruments. I don't know if VG writes true or not, but when it's so massive over time, at least I'm worried about it too. Because we can get a situation where we have a sort of solution out in the summer, where there's a common understanding between the state and the police community, and yet we have a place where there's so much evil blood because it's been so high in the internal temperature. It has to worry more than just the position, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2656	This debate is just as predictable as the debate we have when we are discussing the budget. There's a dispute about who's been delivering the largest numbers, who's brought up most students at the Police College, and who's been employing most civilians. But what we might have to ask questions about, as the representative Breen is on the way, is what challenges we have in relation to needs and in relation to the impact we get from the resources we put into the system. Because it is that it has never been particularly wise to raise good money after bad money – or was it the other way around? Anyway, it's a good idea to make the right investments at the right time. If not, this is going to be a ‘never ending story’ – we will continue to discuss a discrepancy between effort and result. We can't keep doing that. The Norwegian justice sector is not so big that it should not be controllable. I refuse to believe that. I refuse to believe that former councillor Dørum in his time felt he had no control over what he was doing. I refuse to believe that the Council of State Storberget has no control over what he wants to do, and what he wants to achieve. Nevertheless, there is a big difference between what we see happening and what we want to achieve. Then, in my opinion, we don't have so many things to deal with, but we have to figure out: do we operate correctly in relation to achieving the results we want? Do we have the wrong measurement parameter? Are we too ambitious? Or is it just so that we decide too many things that we don't settle the bill, so that we get an anomaly? Is it actually our own fault that it gets like this eventually? I think – with all possible respect – that the Storting has an zeal – a positive zeal – which unfortunately sometimes does not go up with the check we put on the table to make up for us. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's wrong, but that means it's bad done. It is badly done to the department that is set to do the job. It is badly done to the Norwegian police who have to take the trick and the Christmas party in the media. And it is most badly done to those citizens in this country who do not receive the necessary help. Then we can discuss humility, as the representative Chaudhry spoke about. Humility from whom? From the majority government that does not have the ability to help those in need? Or humility in relation to the bet? Humility in relation to what, representative Chaudhry? It is therefore a fact that there is an anomaly between what citizens expect, not least in the police laws §§1 and 2, which are quite clear on the responsibility of the state, and what we see is the reality of society today. And then the question is, are we going to do something about it? Or should we say that's how it is? – We have a significant investment, and that is good enough. The difference between what we are betting and the challenges we have must be living with, because it is politics, and it is about priorities. It is possible that it is a good red-green policy. This is not a good progress party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2667	Yes, in the Center Party, we are concerned that it is the districts and county offices that go beyond priorities. I have also said that there have been several places, and we are busy stopping that development. I don't feel like there's any contradiction here with the other government parties. We're busy. It's been important for the Center Party to keep the local police alive, and it still is. We're going to continue working for it, and I feel confident that the other government parties will also stand for this. It's a little too easy to throw out a lot of statements from the opposition now, because this isn't a project that's being solved overnight. There's a lot of good, constructive input here, and they're going to be useful. And as I said, in the Central Party, we have great faith that there is a dialogue between the parties that can solve this, and there we have great expectations. We're waiting for the Minister of Justice to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2674	Just to clarify, we're not waiting for the Minister of Justice to come back, we're waiting for the usually functioning Minister of Justice to come back. We always have a Minister of Justice in Norway, but I guess it's not to hide that this is a short-term commitment for me, in a way, a kind of overtime work, gone into volunteer work. What I responded to was what the representative Aspaker said in his statement, namely that we were to enter into negotiations – that was the word negotiations she used – with the police. Well, we're going to have negotiations with the police in the ordinary interim settlement that comes in spring 2009, through the main organisations, and I just have to ask you the following: I understood from the position that there really is a distinction between the approach that the Progress Party, which has never been in government, and which should never be in government, has to the normal framework for the relationship between workers and employers also in the public sector – one should be careful to use the populism concept of the Progress Party, because it is a little too light, but here I believe that that is exactly what it is – and the one that the Right does not include in these proposals. But then the representative, Aspaker, says to have negotiations with the police. Does she mean, then, that the ordinary negotiations to be held through the main associations of the spring, or does she simply mean that we should sit down with a professional group and negotiate with them extraordinarily? Does she mean, then, that the scheme should be introduced for other professional groups which certainly have legitimate and legitimate requirements in their sectors? And does she think that this should change the system we have for the kind of negotiations in Norway? It would have been very interesting to get rid of a party that has been in government and has been responsible for this system many times – and that could have changed it if you wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2683	I'm not going to make this a Akershus debate or a Follo debate. But this debate is important, because it's general, because if the government gets through what seems to be the result in Follo, it can, as the representative Dørum says, become a pattern for the rest of the country, with the closure of loner offices a lot. Now the central party representative again expresses concern, and that's interesting. There is really reason to ask whether the Center Party is in favour of or against the reorganisation process that is now taking place in Follo. It might be interesting to get an answer, because the way I interpret the centre party here, you're against it, and then you're at what the Stortinget meant when the police role message was dealt with, that what you see in Follo, is something quite different than a limited attempt and an adjustment of some limits. It would be very gratifying if the centre party representative from Akershus now clarified whether the central party in government has intended to counter this when finally dealing with it in the Council of State. Because then the Center Party is actually back to what I think was the premise of the Center Party and the rest of the parties, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the SV, then there is a majority against the reorganisation that is taking place in Follo. So it would have been okay to get an answer as to whether the center party is for or against the reorganisation they're so worried about. In order to be clear with regard to the comment to which the Council of State and others refer as regards this reorganisation: it has never been the intention of the Right or the Opposition to support the experiment in the way it does in Follo. So it'll be very interesting for us who are sitting in this room now, to find out where the centre party actually stands in this case -- not just be concerned verbally here on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2697	It was a concrete question from the Council of State to the undersigned, on behalf of the Right. What I think Right has been very clear about is that we are not talking about the ordinary wage negotiations. They have to go their way – for the police as for all other groups negotiating in these settlements. However, in the same way as in the hospital sector, deviations from working time agreements are due to the fact that key personnel are involved, which do not have enough of them in some periods, we believe that a new working time agreement should have been negotiated for the police. This should have been done when the previous expiry, when 120 years of work were lost, because already at the time you saw that it was really quite fatal, and that a police officer who was on the heels came even more on the heels. It is in a way the dialogue and the negotiations that the Right calls for, and where the Right believes that the Government does not take that responsibility the Government should take to ensure that the country has a sufficient police resource. Then I want to say to the representative Thomas Breen that yes, the right is also concerned that we are putting a lot of resources into a police sector – and apparently not getting what we should want out of it. But then you're back to the fact that it must be the Government and the Minister of Justice's responsibility to get to the bottom of what it is that we don't get the effect out of the funds put into the building. It's hard for the Storting to sit on the outside and look around, but it's the government that has a big device to break numbers, produce reports, analyse resource use and come to Stortinget with proposals for any changes that will help us get more of the resources we actually put into this building.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2707	This is starting to be the old, good debate; every time it becomes the exact same debate. I had no desire to extend it any more, if the representative Ellingen had not turned to such great heights in terms of humility. Then we're going to go through it one more time. I'll read the whole lesson. The government and the SV are the first to admit that we have challenges. That's exactly why we started all the measures that I'm going to frame up. That's exactly why we want to continue that job after the election. DKK 2.5 billion has been delivered over these three to four years. One billion is above the price increase. We have supplied 552 police students, this reform is fully funded. We've reduced prison queues. We have delivered 460 new civil positions in the action package. We have more police posts in Oslo. We have an emergency network that's about to start. We've taken steps to keep more seniors -- and I see that I have time, so I'm going through the entire lesson, so that everyone knows what we're talking about here. My colleagues said that we have delivered 850 more annual works to the police now than when we took over in 2005. Then comes the question: is humility relative to this? Yeah, there you go, we've done a good job. Yes, there are many more challenges there. Yes, we accept it, we recognize it. That's exactly why we're getting more action going. But when the opposition comes, as the representative Ellingen does, and presents it as if nothing happens, as if everything is black, as if nothing has been done since we took over, and as if everything was so good before that time, then there is a need to ask for some humility in relation to the realities we all live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2718	Just to be quite clear, so that there is no ambiguity left: there will now be a debate on compensation for very specific hours of work for the police, where the agreement expires in the summer. There's one round of this. Then you have the regular paycheck. But I really hope that all parties here, except perhaps the Progress Party, agree that we must use the normal systems for that kind of negotiation. I think it was Breen who talked about that sometimes there's a little bit of use for the opposition and the position to stand together, and that not every case can only be used in some kind of game. I'm sure we've been to each and every one of them, the President, not the President, but the undersigned, from the opposition as well. But there are some systems that we have to stick together, otherwise I think this is going to be very difficult to deal with, not primarily in the police field, but in almost all areas. I hope we have a common understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2725	Kari Mette Prestrud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2728	Yes, I repeat that I'm concerned that centralization is the result of scarce resources, so I don't have to repeat it several times now. But in other words, this would have gone much faster with the Oktay Dahl party in government. We have actually contributed far more funds than what the Right has shown the will to do. Now we're looking forward, and we're going to solve this bunch using dialogue between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2735	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2738	Of course, the Left will not give away police authority to sentinels. But what do we want? Yes, we will, for example. Do what the Center Police Station does in Oslo, where a very skilled police officer organizes sentinels at the Oslo Centre in such a way that a person gets a lot of police force out of it. It's called being smart and capable. This type of insight is available to all who are seated with the government apparatus. It is available to do something else in Hordaland than what you do, to make sure that the seniors are taken care of rather than that they are not taken care of. This insight is available, but you have to pick it up, grow it out, talk about people, and you'll find many examples that make you get more out of the heads than what may be the concern of many in the room today. I'm just talking from my own experience. I think it's good to share it with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2745	I need to send a greeting to the representative Chaudhry, who was concerned with humility. It is therefore a fact that if the representative of Chaudhry had had the opportunity to come along instead, he would have heard that I did not have a single comment on the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party at all. What I pointed out was a discrepancy between the appropriations made here and the challenges facing society. And the representative Chaudhry went through the mouldings of the red-green government, as he usually does. Of course, he has the right to do so, but the fact is – whether the representative of Chaudhry likes it or not – that the problems are not gone. The problems are flourishing outside this house, in society. And it is possible that this is exactly what SV wants as a government party, so that you can always come up with alternative solutions to show the power of action. But it's in my opinion a little search for those who are used in such a game. In this way I think the representative Chaudhry might have a need to go in and redefine or rewrite the term 'humble' again, because I didn't realize he was particularly humble. On the contrary, I realized that it was the focus on self-presentation that was the most important thing. That's how, as I said before, the Storting is doing the job that's to be done and that's expected. But anyway, we don't manage to fill the gaps that we see outside here, we can't solve the social problems, we can't follow the intent of Section 1 and Section 2 of the Police Act. And that should worry us a lot more, because there's something about the demand made to the state when they've made resources available to police Norway, so that the population, good taxpayers who want to use a common good, as the Norwegian police are, actually get access to it. Then the question becomes natural: do you get it today? Unfortunately, it doesn't look like this. If it's the case that someone thinks the policy is over, I have to say that at least I don't know it again. I actually perceive that Norwegian police are among the best we have worldwide, relative to cleanliness and to delivery. But it's also per. Today, there is a rather sharp conflict between the Government and the Police Union, on the basis of a different starting point. Now that the Norwegian police want to protect their leisure time, it's quite natural, most of us do. Then their challenge is to focus positively on what it takes to solve it, and not stand here and play with numbers, because that's what we're doing. We're going to draw up lists of scaffoldings in relation to police arrests, in relation to the police high school, and in relation to civil servants. I also think, with respect to reporting, that there is never so little paradox, if I can say so, that when we dealt with the budget early in December, there was no need for the 460 civil positions that were brought in early in the New Year. It is possible that the world was so different on 1 January from it in early December, but it should not be so different, even for the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2756	I didn't quite understand the representative Octay Dahl's posts when it came to police officers who couldn't afford to accept the eartag civilian settings where it actually comes with money. That's not the opinion I have of the police officers I've met. To the representative Aspaker, we will have a full review of the resource situation at AGENDA. I also think it is very interesting that the representative of Aspaker believes that it is the government and she alone who is going to come up with a solution when it comes to the crew crisis. I agree that it is the main responsibility of the Government. At the same time, the same representative in previous posts said that it is indeed the Labour Party's fault that there was no increase in admission to the Police College during the Bondevik II government, because we did not actually propose it. At least we have to be at least involved in a debt-sharing -- okay, but there's a difference between life and learning here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2763	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2766	I don't know how pedagogical I must be to explain to the representatives of the Workers' Party that police officers say that they have to cancel people because they don't have payroll budgets to keep them employed. I expect that the representative Heggø will also receive the Police Forum. There she can with self-esteem on pages 10, 11 and 12 – and maybe 13 too, I don't remember, because I haven't read it in that detail – read more examples. Travel to Follo and talk to those elected to trust there, you might get a slightly different sense of reality from what you get when you sit in closed rooms in government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2787	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2796	For examination there is a Document No. 8-proposals tabled by the Progress Party, proposing that today's Police Uniform Regulations be maintained and that the use of hijab or other religious or political symbols as part of the Police Uniform should not be permitted. The background for this document no. The 8th proposal is the so-called hijab case, which is based on the fact that a woman who wanted to apply to the Police College in a letter to the Police Directorate asked for permission to wear hijab during her studies and in her possible role as an employee of the police. The Equality Ombudsman stated that questions could be asked whether there would be a breach of the Equality Act not to allow hijab, and the Police Directorate concluded that a positive attitude to the question was known. Among other things, Reference was made to positive experience in both the Swedish and British police in allowing the use of hijab, and it was also shown that both in the Defence and customs department, hijab is permitted as part of the uniform. The proposal, however, aroused considerable debate and concern, and the Minister of Justice, on this basis, chose to stop the further process in the Directorate of Police in designing a uniform regulation that opened up hair cover. This was presented by the Minister of Justice at a press conference on 20 February this year, one week after the Progress Party presented its Document No. Eight proposals. The Committee therefore writes in its observations on the matter that there is no longer a real need for the proposal of the Progress Party. In its comments, the Committee also refers to the reply of the Trond Giske State Council, which states: ‘Police uniform rules established by Kgl. Res. 5 August 1994, sets out in detail the various service suits, headgear, footwear, belts and distinctions of the police. It is further stated in Chapter 1 of the Uniform Regulation. 8 that ‘Sivile garments and effects shall not be applied visibly together with uniform effects. Exemptions from this are garments of a civil model which are accepted for both uniform and civil use’. This means that garments, effects, or objects must be laid down in the uniform regulations or positively approved in order to be used with the police uniform. All other garments, effects or objects will include: not be allowed. Once it has been decided not to go further with the question of changing the Police Uniform Rules, I can see no real need for the proposal. Similarly, such uniform rules today would not require positive prohibitions on the use of hijab or other religious or political symbols with the police uniform.’.» The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV therefore consider that, in the light of the replies of the Council of State, it is not necessary to support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right not to allow the use of hijab and other religious or political symbols as part of the Police Uniform. As I pointed out, today's uniform regulations are very clear at this point through the explicit wording: ‘Sivile garments and effects shall not be visibly applied together with uniform effects’.» It means, in practice, that the use of hijab or other political or religious symbols with the uniform is prohibited under today’s uniform regulations. The Minister of Justice has stated that today's uniform rules should not be amended, and that is why we believe that the intention of the Progress Party proposal is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2824	Let me start with the simplest, namely the conclusion – that we are well pleased with today’s uniform regulations of the Norwegian police. For sure, I'm going to deal with this proposal right away, so I won't forget it since. This has been a matter that has gained some proportions that is perhaps greater than the case has deserved, even though it is fundamentally important. It is probably also a fact that it has not been fully processed, since the Control and Constitutional Committee is still working on it in the light of the process that has taken place. In this way – and as the case rapporteur was in it – the government has in a way put the hijaben dead until further notice, we will see what happens. It must be allowed to say that ‘coverage of hair’ is a subtle design textual. What's that supposed to mean? So what can we do about it? I'm glad that the government, after a long and slightly variable process, predictedly ended up with the result you have today. Nevertheless, we feel that the government is now going to show that they actually mean it, so we invite them again to support our proposal. I realized that the case-rapporteur felt that this was unnecessary. But it'll be a clear confirmation that that's what you actually mean here. And if you actually agree with that, why not support it in the form of proposals? It can't be so hard to support it when you're really positive about it. But at the same time, I see that the committee chairman and the rapporteur believe that this is problematic, because you don't have to. After following the process from the Government in this matter, I absolutely think you need it! I do not know if there is any point in making the debate longer than what I have already done for my own part, but I would point out that it has been important for us that the uniform regulations should be clear. There shall be no religious or political symbols on the uniform. The Norwegian police are supposed to look the same, no matter what background you have. That's the most important thing, and that's how you gain confidence among the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2837	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2840	The question of hijab in the police has triggered a number of political curvatures. Hijab was a non-substantial until the Ministry of Justice announced that the Government would allow hijab. Then the hijaben became a matter, for then a few weeks later to be converted into a new non-case, from the time the Minister of Justice drew up the proposal. Meanwhile, the Stortinget had witnessed an open seminar in the government, where state councils in turn stood up and acknowledged their personal vision. Some were for, some were brave. The husband of chaos might be looking for a long time in Norwegian politics! I myself was in a debate with the chairman of the Justice Committee, who then wholeheartedly defended the Justice Department's yes to hijab. Today, the representative, the Bjørnface, walks quietly in the doors. The perhaps most daunting thing in this case was the absence of a principle approach at the expense of purely practical arguments. The fact that the police who enforce law and order should appear impartial and authoritative had been pushed completely into the background. In the name of integration, it was referred to England and Sweden. What nobody said was that Muslim Pakistan has never thought of changing its police uniforms to include the use of hijab for women. We have witnessed a most confusing process within and outside the government offices. Although it often refers to the recommendation of the Police Directorate, I am still left with a certain impression that here the Red-Green members of the Justice Committee and the Council of State had discussed the matter for a longer time and actually agreed: Hijab should be allowed to be used for the Norwegian police uniform. The case evolved as known to a pure farce, and two days after the Prime Minister here in Stortingen's spontaneous question-time promised the trial on the matter – here everyone should be heard – the Minister of Justice came home from the winter holiday and buried the matter at the depths of many fans. And there the matter lies well, in the opinion of the Right. The right takes absolutely seriously the need to recruit applicants with a cultural background different from that of Norwegian police. Today, the Norwegian police have employees with Muslim faith, without demands for the use of religious headgear in the job. In the hijab case, we could also see that the police officers had taken the action on the coin, which was clearly fragmented when it came to the conclusion. In Muslim environments other than the police and among Muslim girls, opinions were also very divided. So it wasn't a popular claim to use hijab in connection with the Norwegian police uniform. The right has also noticed that the search for young people with a migrant background to the Police College is going the right way, and that this has happened without enticing the use of religious and political symbols to the uniform in the service afterwards. This is positive and builds up under the opinion of the Right, that the audience should meet a uniform police force, free from the use of symbols, which in worst cases could be thought to be a conflict-making factor in the day-to-day work of the police and in problematic situations. Finally, the Right Party welcomes the fact that the Minister of Justice will return to the Stortinget on a case of the use of political and religious symbols in our courts. It is Right's view that society should base the same attitude on the use of symbols in the courts as in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2857	I'm one of those people who had appreciated that the police had become more inclusive. However, I note that opinion was not, and is not, ripe for the action. The Minister of Justice has decided that hijab will not be allowed in the police. I take note of that. I now look forward to the Minister of Justice coming up with other measures that help the police become more inclusive and reflect the composition of society. So very short to the mess of the government, etc. I believe to remember that immigration policy spokesman from the Right, Bent Höie, went high on the track in Stavanger Aftenblad and praised the proposal. I mean, I've seen that left rustled the proposal. In the course of the debate, we will see who is standing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2864	The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party – that is clear. If the matter itself, it can be said that the government parties have made it clear that it is not current policy to introduce the possibility of using hijab in the police. As such, the Minutes could also be attached to the proposal. But all the time when the Christian People's Party is not in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, nor in the form of a comment, can we explain why we would perhaps attach the proposal to the Minutes, we think it right to vote in favour of the proposal, in order to express our view positively. It is well – without taking too hard – allowed to say that this matter was neither worked through nor anchored as it appeared. That is what the case-rapporteur also indirectly says in his statement. That was a brief explanation of vote on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2873	This is a matter that has been debated a lot, and has found its solution in other forums than in this room. For my part, I believe that the conclusion finally reached by the Government was quite correct. A uniform should be value neutral. It should not express either cultural affiliation or the opening of religious symbols. That, in my opinion, is also a point of view that points forward, which the Government should, at my discretion, use when assessing other uniform regulations, or rules for other governmental bodies. Then I want to say that I do not consider this a question for or against integration or inclusion – that is, that this position excludes someone. Rather, on the contrary – it is my experience that a neutral uniform regulation is inclusive and takes care of all considerations. It is simply what a uniform should be – so simple and so difficult! So to our explanation of vote. I've learned in the period that I'm about to sit here, that the Storting is not going to be a resolution machine. This is a regulation that applies per. date. So there's not going to be any change, it's going to be adopting something that we're all for. I can't see that there's any reason to adopt the status quo. It usually does not use Stortinget to do – I have had it with me – so I think it is a very curative way to decide this matter. I am therefore a little surprised that the opposition chooses to drag this matter to voting, so that we get a voting where we get a result that does not at all reflect the position in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2884	The left-wing position in this case – which was issued before the Government clarified its position – was that we were open to consider a well-prepared case. We saw that there were arguments in both directions. We now only take note that the government has buried the process that was barely started. The most obvious and correct way in which I think I should express it, on behalf of the Left, is to vote in order to attach the proposal to the Minutes. Then I have to say that I began to wonder what kind of case this was, when I discovered for a while after the matter appeared, that it among other things. based on a letter from the Police Directorate which was not public and was written at the beginning of November. I must say, I don't quite understand. When that was the situation, it well expresses a procedure where the matter was poorly prepared, and not including in any way. If there's something life has taught me, it's that in vulnerable cases – no matter what position you have – you include people, and you do it so thoroughly and so seriously that you don't wonder about it afterwards. But the position of the left is quite clear. We note that the Government has buried the proposal. We see it as a reality. We do not need to go further in the matter then, and we vote to attach to the proposal submitted, the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2893	I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this pulpit. It is also stated in the letter that I sent to the Committee as a comment on Document No. The 8 proposal, that there is no need to adopt a positive ban on the use of hijab or other religious or political symbols with the police uniform, because, as it says, ‘the decision not to proceed with the question of amending the Uniform Rules of the Police’. I fully agree with what Mr Dørum said here, that it must be correct to attach the proposal to the Minutes when this is not a matter. It is possible that there is an incredible amount of time in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I believe that if we are to re-adopt all the things that have already been adopted in proposals in the Grand Chamber, it may be insurmountable. It may also be that you think this is the nicest place in the world to be at noon. 21.40 a Monday night. In that case, it's a good way of working, but otherwise I think that kind of decision is a little bit to yell out in the empty room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2906	In order not to hold the Council of State again unnecessarily long, I shall ask a simple question: Is the Council of State satisfied with the government's management of the Hijab process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2911	As a matter of principle, the undersigned is satisfied with the 100 pst Government. of time in 100 pst. of the cases. But I guess I've also publicly said that we could have handled this matter somewhat differently, and at least when the outcome was as it was, it might have been left out earlier. But now at least the conclusion has been reached, and I am well pleased with the conclusion that is now there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2916	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2926	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 14 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e2978	During the debate Kåre Fostervold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a big message during the spring of 2009 on how to reduce the administrative costs of business in compliance with information requirements in public legislation.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3003	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 3, from Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Right First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3035	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to arrange a pole at the store in municipalities without its own pole.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal of the Right Subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3060	During the debate, Torbjørn Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to put forward a strategy to strengthen private active ownership in Norwegian business, including a review and modernisation of current framework conditions and instruments.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3085	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3-5, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3124	The Committee's position and the proposals Nos shall then be replaced by an alternative vote. 1 and 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3158	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3181	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:28 [[2008-2009]] The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3206	During the debate, Leif Helge Kongshaug has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3232	During the debate Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate regulations in the field, including those relating to so-called non-interventional natural areas and time and concept, with a view to strengthening private rights and promoting a case for the Storting.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3341	In the course of the debate, ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 5-10, from Thore A. Nistad on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3367	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6-10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3408	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-4, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate possible recruitment measures that could promote growth in police posts in the districts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3459	During the debate, Jan Arild Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal. Jan Arild Ellingsen – for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3466	If possible, I would ask that the vote be put to the vote so that the minority's proposals are first put to the vote. If the distinguished proposal were to be defeated, we would like to support the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3471	If no one opposes it, the Storting will go forward that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3474	President! The left has made it clear that we will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3479	Then Left has made it clear that they want to vote in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23.ana.ud697e3600	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
