ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e27	The President will propose the election of three presidents of Odelstingen's meeting today and the remainder of June. - It's a note. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen, Per Rune Henriksen and Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not in line, and Svein Roald Hansen, Per Rune Henriksen and Marit Nybakk are jointly elected as seat presidents for the Odelstinget meeting today and out of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e43	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of five lines with answers from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e52	The case concerns proposals for a new law on the transfer of rights and obligations in the case of reclassification of roads under the third paragraph of Section 62 of the Road Act. The Government Parties support the Government's proposal. The Christian People's Party and the Left also support the Government's proposal. I have seen some concerns, but they support the proposal. The party of progress and the Right is against. The other parties themselves explain their views. I would also like to point out that there is a letter from the Ministry of Transport to Stortinget, dated 7 May this year, where you want to correct a few errors of a legal nature. It's described in the setting. I allow myself to take up the proposals of the Progress Party, what we have and what we have with the Right. The Progress Party is opposed to this amendment, this bill. We're not just going against, we're going strongly against the transfer of 17 150 km of other highways from the state to the states and a whole 78 out of 95 highways from the state to the states. The question we should and should ask ourselves is: does this reform provide better roads, and does this reform provide better national road transport services in Norway? We in the Progress Party are convinced that the answer is a clear and clear no. This bill provides the basis for such a transfer. A little about what illustrates at the same time the disclaimer which, according to the view of the Progress Party, lies in the matter: Section 7 of the Road Act provides for reclassification of the road, and demands that, in order to do so, the road must meet technical requirements according to detailed guidelines. In this proportion, the proposal is to be able to carry out a transfer without making such a claim. It is said as a background for this case: ‘The reason for this is the desire to facilitate the more holistic development of the road network in the counties. At the same time, it is important to ensure the cross-border ownership of the road network by road users and industry. The Ministry considers that the reform will both strengthen the regional level and contribute to the better development of the overall road network.’ The party of progress does not share this view. We believe that this so-called reform is an accident for Road Norway. We in the Progress Party believe that this reform leads to a breakdown of transport policy in Norway. Norway has a third road network today. The entire road network with all three categories of highway, county road and municipal roads is characterised by large and increasing maintenance kits – totaling more than DKK 45 billion. The Vegetate has opposed this so-called reform – perhaps not so surprising, but we perceive that they have both factual and good professional arguments against the changes. This 17 000 km road has a maintenance run of 12 billion kroner. In the NTP that we're dealing with, we're talking about an economic framework of approximately SEK 5.1 billion, which is going to follow the road, so to speak. In the municipal bill, it has been reduced to approximately NOK 4.5 billion and a share of NOK 1 billion in free money. The pot with an increase in free resources shall be used both to improve the quality of the 78 national road ferries being moved, without a single real increase in crowns and also to the existing county road network, which is 27 000 km, before being given these new 17 000 km, and which has a sadly large aftermath. In fact, a borrowing framework has been put in place with interest-rate compensation, but I finally want to point out that, in almost all the inputs made to the national transport plan, and in almost all the contributions made to the hearings of the Transport and Communications Committee on this so-called reform, there has been great resistance, great scepticism and clear demands on the conditions for taking over other national roads, and they are not met.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e81	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e84	The changes in the laws we are dealing with today are the year's, perhaps the decade's greatest discharge. That is what was left of the regional reform, and it is such a great discharge that I record that the country's largest party, the Workers' Party, has not intended to participate in the debate. I think it's quite eye-catching, and it shows that this is a matter that gives a lot of people a bad taste in their mouths. Here it is 17 000 km of highway to be transferred to the counties. The counties have said OK, we can accept them, but then we're going to have compensation, and we're going to have covered what it costs to maintain the maintenance run, the lack of bet that's been on these highways. So we feel that all the hearing bodies that are busy on the road, basically, make demands and say that things have to be in place here; things have to be clear here if you're going to agree to such a transfer. In the answers we get from the department, a lot of things are unclear. The representative of Sortevik went through the matter in a very good way. A lot of questions have been asked. There have been poor answers, and there are too many things that are unsolved, such as this with administration: why should we build a new road bureaucracy in county municipalities if the state road authorities still have all the employees? Why should we transfer 17 000 km of state roads when there is now a broad consensus in this room to bet on the coordination of transport policy through the National Transport Plan? When there's a desire to develop complete solutions, long distances and complete corridors, why should we split it up? The economic compensation will be dealt with in debates other than this, but I would like to say that the one billion that has entered the municipal bill, and for which some of the county rapporteurs are cheering, is very close enough to cover the delays and the shortcomings that exist today. Moreover, as I said earlier, we are losing the overall perspective of the national transport plan. We are now examining the national transport plan in the interview, while at the same time we know that 17 000 km of national road will be dealt with in another committee; they will now be county roads and actually a little unsolicited transport committee. What kind of transport policy are we getting out of it? There will be a completely fragmented transport policy, where large parts of the road network – 20,000 km of road from before, plus 17 000 km now – will be dealt with in the county municipalities of the country. Even though the Right wants to put down the county council, it is not the county council we're facing in this case, it's the state and the disclaimer the red-green government adds. I am disappointed that both the Left and the Christian People's Party choose to participate in this transfer, especially when the consequences are as little discussed as they are. With the decision that Stortinget is now proposing, there are also significant consequences for private owners of land. The boundaries for the blockage ban are now being changed, so that many private owners of land will have major problems with the 50-meter limit on which they are based. 50 metres shall now be the distance from the county road to the settlement. In urban areas, I hope there will be exceptions to this, but also in Building Norway, beyond the districts, this will create major problems. I don't think this is well thought out, like a lot more with this reform. The right will vote against the proposed legislative amendments. We do not see that this will improve Norwegian transport policy. On the contrary, we see it as an accident for that coordination, the coordination, the desire that has been in the United Kingdom to get a more comprehensive transport policy now. This is the exact opposite. This is a bad transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e97	When we had the matter of the administrative reform for treatment in Stortinget, the Christian People's Party was very offensive. We asked to have the case rapporteur, and we got that. There can be no surprise to either the Right Party or the Advance Party that the Christian People's Party was committed to a regional reform through which we were going to get some major regions, and we were going to move power out of the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party believes that reason is relatively equal among those who are on the Storting, and those who are now county representatives for us. So we all know how the reform went. The government parties stuck their tails between the legs, the Right and the Advance Party were against, and we ended up with what I would call a mini-reform. But in spite of that, the Christian People's Party stands by what we promised then, namely to move work tasks that do not necessarily have to be decided here in the Biggest, down and down to a lower level, closest to the users. I would like to remind the representative of Greece that the road network is, in principle, already fragmented. We have something called county roads, and we have something called municipal roads. What's happening now is that we're getting a lot more highway. From the Christian People's Party we should have seen that this had ended up in a larger region. In my opinion, we could have a whole North Norway or a North Norway divided into two. Everyone knows that it wasn't, but we're standing by the promises we then made, that we want to move power out anyway. We believe that with this reform we can achieve greater proximity around the individual states to the challenges they face. It is then quite clear that it is a task for the Storting to deal with the economic resources that the counties will legitimately have in relation to the distances they have and in relation to the budgets that the Storing will provide at all times. Then we're significantly critical of what came into the community proposition. The 2009 level, plus DKK 1 billion and plus an interest compensation fund of DKK 2 billion are, in the view of the Christian People's Party, not in the vicinity of being able to provide the county councils with the economic ballast they need in order to cope with the necessary maintenance on the new road network they have received, and not least in order to be able to re-enter. But there's another side to this matter that the Christian People's Party will come back to in connection with the treatment of the municipal proposition. There, we propose to increase the appropriations allocated to the county councils, so that, at the start-up stage, funds can be provided to carry out the major task now being given to the county councils. Then, of course, we will continue to make sure that the reform was not as we wanted it to be. In my opinion, it must be the responsibility of the government parties first and foremost. We are particularly disappointed by the Center Party, which went very high on the track, and which we thought should be able to participate in and direct this reform to something quite different from what it has now become. But the Christian People's Party is stunned by what we promised. That's why we're going in to transfer a significant part of the other national road network to the states, the 19 that we were sitting with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e108	The administrative reform is a major and important reform of the municipalities and the municipalities of Oslo, among others. is responsible for most of the roads that we now know as ‘other national roads’. Changes of laws are necessary in the road sector to implement this management reform. This case concerns transfers of rights and obligations in connection with reclassification of roads. The aim of transferring large parts of the road network to the municipalities is to facilitate the development of the road network in the counties. The county plays an important role as regional development actors, and transport policy is of the highest importance in creating good regional development. That's why we in the Center Party and the Government Party think that it's right that the county takes care of the roads that are most important in this context. At the same time, this reform will also be responsible for implementing a transport policy which, together with the State, will contribute to the achievement of national objectives. We in the red-green parties have expectations that the county councils will take this responsibility, and that they will do the job in a good way. At the same time, there is reason to point out that there is a state responsibility to transfer sufficient funds to the county councils, so that they can build, operate and maintain by just as safely and functionally. In the years to come, there must be a significant lag in the maintenance of the road network that will be followed from the new year. In addition, transfers need to be increased in order for some states to have a lot of suspension connections. The traffic of these connections increases, and as they increase, there will be a need for an extended ferry supply that is associated with traffic. It is gratifying to see that the Ministry of Transport suggests that both frequency and opening time during the planning period should be increased for most connections. I am glad that an interest compensation scheme of 2 billion kroner is in place every year from which the county authorities can apply for funds. They may receive full or partial funding for investments and major improvements, thereby releasing funds from the other frameworks for the maintenance and operation of the road network. In addition, I will also mention the significant increase in the breed protection pot that will help to take important action on the county road network. Overall, there is reason to expect that the standard on both national and county roads will be significantly better in the coming years. Otherwise, I refer you to the comments and recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e127	As from 1 January 2010, the Government aims to strengthen the county council’s role as regional development operator. As part of this, Stortinget has previously agreed that the county councils and the municipality of Oslo will take over the responsibility of the state for the most important of the national road network or any other national road link. The county councils take over the road network with its standards, with its rights and obligations, as they are at the time of takeover. Other national roads are transferred by walking and cycling roads, collective actions, etc. Rights and obligations relating to property and contracts entered into are the responsibility of the like to follow up complaints, disputes and other cases. The transfer of responsibility must take place without the road users, parties to different cases or society being adversely affected by transfers. Individual legal certainty must be respected. In this context, the proposal addresses proposals for the necessary legislative changes in the road sector in order to implement the management reform. A law on the transfer of rights and obligations and changes in road laws and traffic laws is proposed. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee have joined in the proposal. The new law on the transfer of rights and obligations regulates certain transitional issues which are intended to ensure an effective and equal transfer of the State's rights and obligations to the municipalities and to the Municipality of Oslo and, in addition, to ensure equal treatment of third parties. The King of the Council of State shall decide on a case of doubt. At the same time, the necessary changes are proposed in road laws and road traffic laws. The road laws mainly concern the following: Responsibility for faults was given to workers in the same road administration, allowing them to provide regulations on the operation and maintenance of the road network; the general building limit for county roads is increased from 15 to 50 metres – but let me stress: of course, with the possibility of dispensing by the current regulations. Furthermore, provision is made for the possibility of taking roads as a national road and deciding that national roads can be converted into county roads or municipal roads in the context of the reform without complying with the technical requirements guidelines, as in the case of ordinary reclassifications. Road traffic laws are proposed to provide for the development and implementation of various measures relating to road safety by county councils and the municipality of Oslo. Through questions from the Committee on Legal Proposition, I have highlighted the cost implications of road reform, among others. in the case of national guides. I understand that. There's something that the department is going to follow closely. We now mean that there is a good foundation. The national transport plan warned that the reclassification in connection with the administrative reform would lead the Stortinget to formal approval. It's done, in St. prp. No 72, which was made on 15 May. By the municipal proposal, St.prp. No 68 for 2008-2009, which was the same day, shows the financial framework of the municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo and the distribution of funds between the counties. I can report that the preparation is well under way until 1 January 2010. Under the direction of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, there is a conference for the start-up of the municipalities, where representatives from the different municipalities met and where the different departments had their own sequence. And so is the fact that the State Road Service is well-informed about what's going to happen now, and so, as already stressed, it's the county councils as well. But it is quite clear that even if you have experience of cooperation, it is important that all parties are now engaged in a constructive dialogue in order to achieve this as smoothly and as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e153	According to the applicable road law § 7 other sections it is such that, after the municipality has expressed its opinion, the county may decide that a county road should be closed or converted into a municipal road. Will this also apply to these 17 150 km highways, which are now downgraded from the national road to the county road?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e158	Let me show you to my post, where I say that a secret is proposed to take roads as national roads and decide that national roads can be converted into county roads or municipal roads in connection with the reform, and without the technical requirements being followed, as they become by ordinary reclassifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e164	This winter I registered in the Municipal Report – at least it said there – that there was a certain dispute between the Minister for Municipal Affairs and the Minister for Transport about the organisation of where the employees were going to work – whether they were still employed in Vegvesenet, or whether they were going to move into the County Municipality. I was about to say – now we have the two opponents in one and the same person here, and we record that the employees of Vegvesen should still be employed in Vegvesenet, and that the county municipalities should eventually build up a small or large administration to deal with this. But Section 10 of the new third paragraph states: «In the case of work on matters relating to county roads, it is the county that is responsible for the employer according to the provisions of Section 2-1 of the Compensation Act for those added to the Regional Road Office.» So, where Vegvesenet does you too bad work and something goes wrong, the county council is going to pay the bill. Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e176	Let me first comment on what might look like a battle in the Municipal Report. I don't know exactly how to express myself, but I think I'm going to say that the municipal minister said that something was drawn far in relation to what was said, and that it was actually the case that she had good faith in – that there was going to be a constructive dialogue with the Ministry of Transport, which it also did. It is clear from the legal changes that have been made, from the organisation that is currently in place, and from the funds that are now available. So to the question. As has now been set up, the King of the State Council shall decide on a case of doubt. I think that so far we have arranged well that there should be no doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e183	As a member of the County Council in Hordaland and the Committee on Transport in Hordaland, I have the following questions to the Council of State: Can we at county level transfer county roads to the municipalities under the same conditions as the state now transfers national roads to the counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e188	When a country road is transferred to the municipalities today, there are certain procedures. When new paths are classified as state roads, I'm going to assume that the procedures are the same. But let me say for the sake of order that I have not been directly inside here in front of the debates around the individual paragraph, and must be allowed to come back, so that I am absolutely sure that the answer is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e193	That answer nuanced the answer I received at my first post here, namely that there is an opening for the county afterwards to do something about the road network it becomes owner of. But my question now goes as much to the municipal minister as to the functioning Minister of Transport. I wonder whether the municipal minister on behalf of the county councils is pleased to be responsible for a sector that is now being allocated approximately. 17 000 km of road with a total lag of 12 billion kroner, and how the Council of State sees this delayed, after the reform has been implemented, should be able to be covered in a reasonably short time, as the drivers and road users probably want.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e200	Then I must first say that the Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Transport is a member of a common government, and that also means that in the matters put before the Storting, our view is clarified. So the answer is yes, here, too, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Local Affairs are some of the things that have been put forward. Now, the economy itself, the follow-up of these 17 150 km, is going to have the opportunity to come back to it in relation to the municipal bill, but let me just say, for the first time, it's going to be 6.9 billion dollars in relation to the length of the road. Then it is put at the disposal of free income, which is distributed by the department, NOK 1 billion. Then there's another half a billion dollars in growth for the county councils, where they can also use parts of this for transportation purposes, and then the two billion dollars will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e207	I fully understand that the Council of State cannot answer any specific questions, as the area is a little outside of hers. But I think the answers given to the representatives of Sortevik and Indrevik are interesting in relation to this with reclassification of roads. Now I understand it this way, and now I ask more that I may not have understood the content of the answers myself, that it is an opening so that the county councils can reclassify the new county roads, today's highways, to municipal roads, and I also understand that the county councils now, with the new 17 150 km of road they get, can reclassify roads to highways, i.e. the tribal road, but that it will then be decided in the council. Have I understood that correctly? Because it's interesting in that context that within these 17 150 kilometers of new roads that the county councils are getting now, there are roads that have the character of should have been upgraded to the tribal road a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e212	First, when it applies to tribal roads: what should be classified as it is in the future is presented by a separate case submitted to the Stortinget on 15 May. So what I referred to in relation to the King and what can be decided there is the transfer of the state's rights and obligations to the county councils and the municipality of Oslo, and in addition, the equal treatment of third parties. Then I register that the Government and the bulk of the population and the Progress Party have a totally different angle of incidence here. My particular impression now is that the county councils are satisfied with the holistic responsibility that they are now given too many new paths, the possibilities it gives in the role that the county should play as a regional development actor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e219	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e224	It may not be that much to add to the debate. I think it's just the future that will show whether our roads will get a lift, especially these about. 17000 km to be moved. It will take a long time, I think, to get answers to that. But I record that one of the main objectives of the majority, including the Left and Christian People's Party, is to give the regional level a boost. Then it's also very interesting to record what the representative Sahl from the Christian People's Party put in his post. I also record that the Christian People's Party, in its comments, almost refuses to – there is total doubt – that the solutions that we are putting on the table here today are for the best for the new paths. Yes, I go so far as to say that the Christian People's Party and the Left affirm in their remarks that the matter that is on the table here will not be at our best. But then they say they're going to come back in connection with the community proposition. Does the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that they will reverse the government parties in the treatment of the municipal proposition, that they will receive some additional appropriations in relation to what is there? It'll be interesting to see. If the Christian People's Party and the Left will succeed in this, it will be fantastic. If you wanted a boost for the regional level, I think you should have a lot more focus on the primary municipality, which is then the real local self-government, at least in the eyes of the Progress Party. Now you're going to continue a regional level, give them additional power by reviewing decisions in primary municipalities, etc., which I think is to lower the development of the regional level. The rapporteur has made it clear that the figures signaled both through Ot.prp. No 68 and the position that exists, and what is also signaled by the municipality proposition, are almost minus. It is hardly possible to continue what the state is using on these roads and bridges and tunnels — barely — and it is clear that it will then be interesting to see if there will be a lift on it. What is very important, as the representative of Greece was in the Chamber, is that, at least as far back as I can remember, coordination has been sought; intermodal nodes, coordination of transport modes, etc. Here I record that you're doing the opposite of what you've always done before. There's nothing more to add than that I think that the 5,800 bridges and countless tunnels and the number of kilometres of road unfortunately will have a further decay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e239	Finally, in a very short debate on a rather fateful reform: let me say that my impression from both the input made to the NTP, and from the hearings that the Transport Committee has now had on the national transport plan, which includes this reform, is that there is a great deal of concern from almost all the county councils – when they have both written their hearing notes and even come physically and given their best consideration. This is particularly related to the fact that the State and the Government grant themselves exemptions from Section 7 of the Road Code, i.e. the requirements for the way they are transferred. In particular, there is the concern of the vast majority of municipalities – a strong and clearly expressed concern that we should therefore be forced to receive roads from the state that is poorly maintained by the state. And one expects in a well-known state style at least as strong and perhaps even stronger demands from the state to the roadside after the road has changed owner. If there had been a fair level playing field from the Government between the different road categories in the context of the reform, I believe that the concern would be less. But the starting point is that in terms of road loads on the main road network, which remained with the state, and which are also part of the NTP, there is an increase of more than 50 pst. during the ten-year period in the national transport plan – above 50 pst. On the roads that the state is now forced to move to the counties, there is an increase of less than 10 pst. – 9.6 p.m., to quote the response from the department – a considerable variety of treatment. And of course, it sucks up under the fear of the states that there's no way here to bring the necessary funds, and not at all to take the penalty for a total of 12 billion kroner. In spite of this, it is unclear, at best, for the county councils how, in a few years, it will be possible to have this road network rusted up, which was transferred with such a huge backlog as what you see here. Taking into account the loan framework, it actually lacks 5.5 billion if the rest of the highways were to have the same upgrade and the same increase that the state is still responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e247	It is with amazement that I listen to the objections of the Party of Advancement, and especially to the Christian People's Party, in this matter. With the ambitions of the Progress Party on Transport, and with the amounts that the Progress Party will contribute to the National Transport Plan, I assume that the Progress Party politicians in the counties will rejoice over what they will be transferred and themselves can prioritise within their own framework – people who represent the county as a whole and who know where the shoe prints. To the representative, Sandberg, I would like to say: what we have asked critical questions about is the transfer that was made in connection with the municipal proposition, which we believe is too small. We have more ambitions than what is put there, for what kind of initial capital we should give the county councils when they're going to start this new task. And we want – as I said – to move power downwards. That's exactly what the Progress Party wants when they're going to have a referendum on important issues. Whether in municipalities or in counties, they constantly want to ask for a referendum – most people will be allowed to decide. Yes, so will the Christian People's Party. We want to shift power downwards in those areas where it's possible. And here the counties have competence per. Today, because they have the county roads, and they get something more. Then we're the one who still have to be responsible for the money and for the economy. That's our responsibility. It is at the Progress Party, it is at the Christian People's Party, at the presentation of the municipal propositions in the coming years. So the Christian People's Party does not experience this as any forced displacement. On the contrary, it's wild of us. It was wild from the first round when we dealt with the big new governance reform. I have said that we are disappointed that unfortunately it was not more than this, but what it was, it was, and we want to transfer, and give power and authority to the underlying bodies. For us, this is a happy day, and then it's our responsibility to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e256	Let me address two issues that are mentioned in the debate. It only applies to the limits, that is to say the general building limit. The ratio is here it's going to be 17,000 kilometers of highways that essentially get a new limit. The background for that is that we've now got one for us to stick to. The limit today for other highways is 50 m. But let me underline once again that there is a promised room for both exceptions and exemptions with regard to the current landlord. I have been asked here by the representative Arne Sortevik about Section 7. Let me then just underline the following: On the pages 26-27 of the proposal, it is listed on which area of the Road Law Government proposes change. It's in Sections 2, 10 and 16. It is in Sections 29 and 40, and it is in Sections 52 and 62. I said that in advance I had not been in all the details on the law here. I have actually had some exaggerated expectations as to how the Progress Party sees itself into a case like this, because it is the case that there is no change in Section 7. This means that, apart from the administration law, road laws are normally applicable, with the procedures and requirements that it imposes. Then it is that transfers in relation to the reform are determined by the Storting with the standard they have. That's also why the department now has to go to Stortinget. We do that in this case. Then I'll also highlight two relationships. The only thing is that here's a case for dealing with which road should be future national roads. The government has also been busy ensuring good opportunities when it comes to the economy ahead of this new road network. What we also mean is that we're going to get this right in the future, and then I'm going to refer to the work that's now going on with the community proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e269	The reason why the Left supports this governance reform is the thinking of democracy – quite simply, as Jan Sahl also said in his speech, to shift power from us here in the Storting and, as far as possible, the user and give the regions greater power. It shouldn't be any surprise that the Left believes it. Then we join a note, together with the Christian People's Party, in stressing that 'it must still be the responsibility of the State to ensure that county municipalities are able to maintain and operate the county road network'. The left is, as hopefully all the other parties in this room, concerned that we should have good and safe roads throughout the country, and we are going to follow closely what happens when the roads are moved over to the county municipalities. You can trust the left in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e276	Maps to the Council of State: Yes, we've read the proposition. Yes, we have read a new section 62, and we have read that there is an exception in the implementation of the administrative reform, an exception provision which therefore sets aside the provisions of sections 3 and 7 of the Road Act. Our problematisation is what happens after implementation, when the Road Act § 7 remains as it is, and is used and will apply after transfer. Does this mean, then, that the county councils can make a further declassification of roads after they have obtained 17 000 km of highway that is no longer national road? That's what we tried to get a little bit of clarity on, and we might have gotten that at last. The transfer thus has a derogation because the State will not take responsibility for the roads they lead, but then the county will have the full opportunity to actually further downgrade roads, if the county council finds out that it wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e286	I was just going to make a brief comment, an invitation to the committee that, as soon as we have finished this matter, all the members of the committee will present themselves in the Eidsvollsgallery for photography. But once I've taken the pulpit, I'll add some comments. It was not in any way my intention to provoke the Left or Christian People's Party, and I know that they have strong desire to strengthen local democracy and also the regional level. But then I point out – and it is possible that I read the comment from the Christian People's Party and the Left as a certain man reads the Bible – that I find it difficult to interpret what is stated in the comment of the Left and Christian People's Party differently than that if what we now decide is implemented, both the Government has broken a promise, as it says in the note, and the Christian People's Party and the Left are very disappointed, because they see that the resources for creating good roads are not in what we are dealing with now, etc. With the background of the comment I described here, the Left and Christian People's Party will today be involved in adopting something that will not strengthen the regional level. That's the interpretation I've been making. The case rapporteur has interpreted what the Council of State has said, and it is quite interesting if it results in correctness, because then the question is next round: how many kilometers of these 17 150 km will now reclassify or downgrade the county because it does not come with funds? That'll be interesting. Or maybe you don't have to do anything with large parts of these 17 150 km by road that is good enough today to be classified as municipal road, to get a certain upgrade? It's also going to be interesting. Then, of course, I register what is going to be the route or not. That's what we're going to do later. I have also noticed the proposal from the Government here. It is clear that if that list does not expand significantly, we will face major challenges, especially with regard to many of our export routes to which the county councils are now going to take over. There's the big discussion already. But my appeal was to the members of the committee to be a part of photography!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e299	Jan Sahl has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e302	I have to be very brief. It is clear that any text can be interpreted. We in the Christian People's Party too can interpret in the worst sense. I would say that this note from the Christian People's Party and the Left is linked to the economy. We're worried about the economy, and we'll get back to it in the context of the municipal proposition. That's really what the content of the comment is. Otherwise, what I said is a happy day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e309	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e317	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is now over, but the President has every reason to believe that Odelstinget wants to carry out the voting. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e324	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e491	The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e502	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e513	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02-lower.ana.ud1028e572	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
