ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e26	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Knut Arild Hareide, has taken the seat. From the Workers' Group there is a notice that the application for leave granted by the representative of Terje Aasland for the period from 3 February and until further notice is amended to extend until Thursday 5 February only. This notice shall be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e55	Responsibility to Protect, abbreviated as R2P, is a principle that seeks to ensure that the international community responds to genocide and other gross violations of human rights. R2P was adopted in 2005 by the UN General Assembly as part of the World Summit. Firstly, in its present form, it states that States have an obligation to protect their own citizens from mass abuse; secondly, that the international community must, if necessary, assist individual states in doing so; and thirdly, that when a State does not provide for the necessary measures, responsibility falls on the international community. Despite the wide-ranging accession of the United Nations Member States, it has proved difficult to put R2P into practice. In general, there is a lack of clarity about the consequences and how it can be operated. At the same time, we are constantly seeing new examples of individual countries not willing or able to protect large groups of their own population in different ways. In addition to the basic and provocative examples from Rwanda, Cambodia and Bosnia, we have, among others: Somalia, Congo, Darfur, Zimbabwe, Burma and, for that matter, Gaza. It is likely that the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon, has requested a report from Edward Luck, UN Special Adviser to R2P. It is also expected that the President of the General Assembly, Miguel D’Escoto, will put the report on the agenda during this spring. It gives an incentive to consider how to further develop R2P, and for our part how to contribute, and what will become Norwegian priorities. I'll go a little bit deeper into what R2P is supposed to be, and what issues are going on. The United Nations The 2005 World Summit final document explicitly limits R2P to four types of mass abuse. These are genocides, ethnic cleansing, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Ethnic cleansing is a relatively new concept and little anchored in international agreements. On the other hand, the other three categories are well documented, including: in the Statutes of the ICC – The International Criminal Court. Against this background, there are also many threats to human security that fall outside, such as: climate change, disease or various forms of national policy that lead to the cessation of civil rights, general corruption or coup d'état. Some of these will fall, for their part, under other MR obligations, international legal frameworks and conventions or other organisations. With reference to R2P, the international community may interfere in the internal affairs of a country at three different levels: At the simplest level, as well as the country is responsible for protecting its own citizens, externally, it has a responsibility to assist the country in it. It may be through diplomatic, humanitarian or other peaceful measures, which may involve strengthening the country’s own capacity through financial assistance, reform of law and justice, strengthening the country’s political institutions, or helping as a broker or mediator. Good examples of this are intense diplomacy following the elections in Kenya and the efforts of neighbours and the UN in support of the Government of Burundi. The next level may be triggered when the former does not result. This will include the Security Council assessing more stringent measures of the type of sanctions — there may be a arms embargo, or one may refer the matter to the international judiciary against the perpetrators. If, however, all peaceful instruments do not resolve the situation and the country obviously fails to take care of its own population, the Security Council can, as a final paragraph, consider military action. And then R2P is really going to be hard to deal with and quickly comes into conflict with the principle of state sovereignty. Now it's nothing new that states have accepted limits for their treatment of both their own and those of others. The UN ‘The Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ requires the protection of individual and social rights. The Geneva Conventions, as well as various other agreements prohibiting torture, trafficking in human beings or the spread of nuclear weapons, also set limits to the action spaces of individual countries. Equally important is a raising of awareness of human rights that gradually changes what we put in the concept of sovereignty. Sovereignty must increasingly be defined as a set of obligations to the inhabitants rather than a free access to control the people within their borders. Kofi Annan referred to this strikingly as the individual's sovereignty equivalent to the sovereignty of the state. Others refer to it as ‘Sovereignty as Responsibility’, or sovereignty defined as responsibility. The difficult question is, When shall, and may, be, a tying to military means? A military intervention could have stopped the genocide in Rwanda, and maybe also in Cambodia. However, in many cases it is difficult to determine which instruments will be most effective, also because it is unclear whether the interventions qualify for intervention. A report by the ICISS, the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, and the report ‘In Larger Freedom’ by the UN Secretary-General, proposed five criteria for such assessments: The acts of violence must include the loss of life or ethnic cleansing on a large scale, or fear of doing so. The purpose of the intervention must be to prevent or stop the suffering. The use of military means must be an absolute last resort. The active substances must be proportionate to what they will achieve. The intervention must have a reasonable prospect of success. However, Member States did not agree to include such precautions in the 2005 The World Summit Final Document. There is therefore no currently accepted and agreed guidelines to guide the Security Council in such difficult cases. How are we gonna move on? Is the UN Member State mature for a new round of R2P without one risking that it could be lost in 2005? During the UN annual parliamentary hearings in November 2008, this was one of the main issues. The environment around the Secretary-General points to three main challenges for leading R2P from theory to practice. The first one is conceptual. The meaning and constraints of what a premium in R2P has to be understood equally by everyone and in all parts of the world. It is important to avoid misunderstandings, such as the fact that R2P is only about military intervention, but also as a common basis to facilitate consensus on the choice of the necessary measures when new situations arise. The other is institutional. Governments and international organisations have at their disposal the necessary diplomatic, civil and, where appropriate, military resources to ensure effective early impact and measures to provide required assistance to those countries that need it or request it, and not least as important: to people who have a desperate need for protection. The third is political. One must ensure that the main decision-makers will feel co-responsibility and commitment when new situations arise. It requires the organisation of this kind of international work that can quickly mobilise governments as well as civil society. In a given crisis, attempts to achieve political consensus in the Security Council will also require a common understanding of what Member States really did in the Joint Communiqué when they adopted R2P in 2005. Government leaders will also be more likely to take the risks involved if they know that their citizens require it. Therefore, it is important to strengthen public opinion that requires their own political leaders to be active in issues of abuse of human rights both at home and outside. There are several difficult issues that need clarification. Is it possible to further develop R2P e.g. by better defining current crisis situations or through agreed criteria for the procedure? The proposals of the report ‘In Larger Freedom’ are an example of how this could be done. Is the world society mature for a changed view of the principle of sovereignty of states, inter alia: on the basis of R2P? How can a build-in mechanism to prevent R2P from being misused or used as a substitute to promote entirely different political agendas? What does it take for the UN to become a resource in making R2P operational? Norway, too, will be challenged on these issues in the further consideration of the UN. My question is therefore: Does the Government plan to contribute actively to this work, and what will be Norwegian views and priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e133	Let me first thank the interpellant for a good question, and his contributions now in the opening highlighted the whole complexity of this demanding and important topic in a way that I can very well join. ‘When and how to intervene’ is part of Mr Vallersnes’s question. Let me comment on this first. The United Nations Charter limits the right of States and the United Nations to intervene in the internal affairs of other countries. There are reasons why it's like this. Nevertheless, it has helped to ensure that the world community, as represented by the United Nations, has often been passive and powerless against genocide, ethnic cleansing and other gross abuses, to which Vallersnes has given good examples. The genocide in Rwanda was probably the single event — ‘event’ is probably a too cautious word — which greatly contributed to creating a new climate for the political treatment of the framework for the use of power in extreme cases. The very concept of ‘responsibility to protection’, which is responsible for protecting, came seriously into the work of the UN when we adopted certain frameworks for the main content at the 2005 UN Summit. It makes military intervention a last resort in a series of standards of action that essentially aim at preventing the causal links and actions that, when other measures do not work, can give the right to use power in accordance with the United Nations Charter. Even then, the use of power during the doctrine of ‘responsibility for protection’ is limited to cases of, as the representative Vallersnes says, war crimes, genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. So it's about preventing and preventing the most serious crimes the world knows – it's not every act of violence or other generally threatening situation we're talking about. Norway supported the UN Summit Final Declaration and the wording ‘Responsibility for Protection’. The problem or challenge is that although the declaration was an important step forward, it is up to us – Norway and other participating Member States – to establish commitments by developing international law and by following up the declaration’s intentions in political, practical action. Many countries, not least in Africa and Asia, have expressed scepticism. They have wanted to avoid some countries with superior military strength seeking to legitimize military intervention under the pretext of providing certain humanitarian ideals. It was perceived as threatening the sovereignty of the countries. The government’s view is that the principle that ‘responsibility for protection’ shifts focus from the traditional discussion of the right to intervene and the sovereignty of states to the need for those in need of protection and responsible sovereignty. It's positive. In particular, there are three issues that distinguish the concept of ‘responsibility for protection’ from the idea of a humanitarian intervention. Often they mix together. Firstly, the principle that the States themselves are responsible for safeguarding the rights of their own citizens is confirmed. It's important to remember. Secondly, the doctrine confirms that the international community has a responsibility to assist States to fulfil this responsibility themselves. Thirdly, it is established that only in cases where the State does not have or wishes to discharge its responsibility for protection can the international community intervene. Furthermore, strict requirements are attached to which instruments may be used. Preferably, diplomatic, humanitarian and other peaceful means shall be used. Only in exceptional cases, when less invasive alternatives have been tested, can the world community intervene through the use of power, and then through the Security Council, in line with Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Therefore, the doctrine of ‘responsibility for protection’ does not introduce a new norm for military humanitarian intervention, as some opponents of the doctrine claim. Because of this overall approach of ‘protection responsibility’, it was accepted globally and adopted by consensus at the 2005 UN Summit. It is essential that we manage to consolidate this new consensus and prevent a fragmentation of the consensus between countries, after all, in 2005. The Secretary-General's report, to which the representative Vallersnes refers, was published last Friday, 30 January. Here the UN Secretary-General stresses the overall aspect of the entire ‘responsibilities to protect’ approach. The report follows a main structure as highlighted by the Secretary-General in his speech on the theme in Berlin last July, namely, the obligation of the first State to protect its population against the most serious crimes, the second international assistance and capacity building to assist States in complying with the obligation, and, thirdly, the collective responsibility to act where States do not comply with their responsibilities. It is clear that Norway will take an active part in the follow-up to the Secretary-General’s report. The representative of Vallersnes asks whether the Government intends to contribute to this work, and what the Government's views and priorities are in this context. So the answer is yes, we plan to contribute. Norway is actively participating in the discussion, which I have already discussed, and in the operationalisation of ‘responsibility for protection’. The principle is prominent in Norwegian engagement policy. Much of our peace and reconciliation efforts – aid, human rights and humanitarian efforts – are aimed at protecting civilians affected by war, conflict and natural disasters, and, not least, at preventing this. We have e.g. has had its own reporting on the prevention of humanitarian disasters. As you know, Norway has also reached the target of 1 pst. of GNI in aid. It's an important contribution in itself. I would like to elaborate here five areas with concrete examples reflecting the Government's commitment to the principle of'responsibilities for protection' and which will be put into effect in this debate which we intend to contribute to in the UN. These are also in line with several of the proposals in the Secretary-General’s report on the implementation of the principle. First, the work of human rights. It is clear that responsibility here is primarily the State's own. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the central framework for the rise of the border between the responsibility of the State and the rights of individuals. Therefore, efforts to ensure the implementation of country human rights obligations are central to the prevention of abuses. The mandate of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Human Rights Council and the Special Rapporteurs is key tools in this context. Norway is a candidate for the UN Human Rights Council this year, and we are among the biggest donors to the High Commissioner. Secondly, peace building and prevention. Norway’s commitment to the principle of ‘protection responsibility’ is reflected in our work of the UN Peace Building Commission. When this Commission was established in 2005, it was because it was known that many peace agreements were broken and that peacekeeping forces are often drawn out of a conflict area before the foundations for long-term development have been laid. The work of the Peacebuilding Commission has led to a stronger emphasis on seeing peace-building and peace-building in the context, so that the rest of the UN, together with Member States, other international organisations and various voluntary actors, can carry out appropriate actions together with the countries in which the actions are to be carried out. Thirdly, peace operations. A concrete expression of the Government’s commitment to the operationalisation of ‘protection responsibility’ is our objective, set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, to increase participation in UN-led peace operations. That is why we offered the UN an engineering department for the operation in Darfur. That is why we are preparing to send a field hospital to Chad, where we have already contributed equipment and training to the country's police. That is why we are contributing with the civil police in the UN operations both in Darfur, South Sudan and Liberia. There is also a contributing reason why we will consider possible future contributions to the UN operation in Congo. It is important that civil protection be given great importance in all parts of the UN's work on peace and security, not least in the design and implementation of peace operations. Therefore, the Government also contributes to the training of African civilians for participation in peace operations. This is a training which has so far covered more than 8600 people from a number of African countries. Fourthly, humanitarian work. Humanitarian law rules on the protection of civilians in armed conflict and access to humanitarian aid are indispensable. Norway is working to maintain the neutrality of humanitarian actors. Today, we are active diplomacy in the Middle East, in the parties in Sri Lanka, in the United Nations system and in humanitarian organisations to promote respect for international humanitarian law, civil protection and access to humanitarian action. Norway took the initiative to put international humanitarian law high on the agenda. On 29 January this year the French Presidency, on a Norwegian proposal, called a thematic meeting of the Security Council to discuss the position of humanitarian law. After the Burma cyclone last year, we contributed to the Burmese regime opening up humanitarian efforts to the hundreds of thousands who had been hit – we are now following this up, at the latest, under Councillor Erik Solheim's visit to the country two weeks ago. Furthermore, Norway is heavily involved in humanitarian aid through partners such as the United Nations, the Red Cross and non-governmental organisations in countries such as Sudan, Somalia, Congo and Colombia. Fifthly, finally, peace and reconciliation. The peace agreement between North and South Sudan is one example, although a number of major challenges remain. Norway helped to put the agreement in place, and with peace came better security, simpler transport and increased trade, i.e. conditions for development. Another example is Nepal, where Norway helped to create meeting places between the parties to the conflict, so that the Maoists, the political parties and the monarchy had a peace process that could facilitate long-term development. In these conflicts Norway was also actively involved in ensuring the participation of women, meeting places and enhanced involvement in the peace processes in line with UNSC Resolution 1325. With this, I look forward to an interesting debate on the'responsibility for protection' principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e202	I thank the Minister for the full answer. I am pleased with the assurance that Norway will take an active part in the further work on R2P in the UN context. I have listened with great attention to the presentation of the five areas of action and can agree that they are central. In the context of peace-building and prevention – perhaps peace and reconciliation as well – I would like to remind you that, on the Norwegian side, we have done groundbreaking work in the development policy context of our kind of transitional assistance, which I would like to see perhaps in the budgets ahead of what we see in 2009. I think there is a broad consensus that there is something that can be further developed and valuable. I think it is very important that Norway engages strongly, and that just a small, western country like Norway does. Over eight years in the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have had the opportunity to visit very many countries in different parts of the world. Many of us have well recorded with some frustration that some of the countries we have visited, which have correctly signed both the UN Declarations and various conventions, do not always practise as strongly human rights, legal certainty, the rule of law, the free position of the courts, etc. In part, we feel that some countries have a completely different agenda than us in these areas. What I often find difficult is when an attempt to raise this debate in those parts of the world is that one is accused of the fact that human rights, as they are formulated, are often based on Western-defined values. The polarization for/against Western influence is immediately applied. On the other hand, I feel quite convinced that the majority of the population in these countries, not least in the countries where there is an abuse, is fully in line with us in highlighting the value of the individual human being. Norway can have a clear voice here because to a lesser extent than part of our close neighbours in the West, we have a colonial past, at least when we are in different assignments around. I therefore think it is very valuable that we are an active party to this work, which is ultimately about caring for the individual person in critical situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e215	Transition Assistance Card: That’s a good point. I believe that we basically have a great deal of flexibility in the tools we have in the aid budget and other budget lines to contribute to the transition that the representative is engaged in. I think a lot of what's pointed out here is that this case triggers other types of conflicts that we're familiar with, which go into the broader debate on civilizations, cultures, religions and groups and are very anchored in the original starting point of these groups. Norway has participated in the United Nations Group on Responsibility to Protect, attempting to mitigate the contradictions, in particular the fear in the G77 countries of legitimising military intervention by military-supervised states. I think this illustrates another point, which we might be able to discuss more widely in the foreign debate of the week. It's about how we have to train ourselves to practice and work across these dividing lines. In a lot of the human rights work, in the process around Durban 2 and around questions about human rights defenders, freedom of expression, etc., we see that the starting point for a joint discussion of these issues in the UN is often that the groups go heavily into the trenches before the debates begin. Often it is e.g. so that countries that agree fully develop detailed positions that they place on the table as a starting point for moving forward. It'll be more demanding. I think it reflects that we are living in a time of changes in the world order and changes in power conditions. If we are to create a framework for ‘responsibilities to protect’ to be something more than just words, we need to get to the very edge of all the issues that build contradictions. Because otherwise, this principle and how it has been thought to create almost more counter-conceptions than positive forces that can live up to what was the intention of the principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e224	First, let me thank the interpellant for including ‘Responsibility to Protect’ for the debate. I can join virtually everything Vallersnes said. Unfortunately, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs started off, we have many examples of regimes that have been brutally assaulting their own people in recent times, while the world community – which unfortunately includes the UN – has been passive as spectators. Let me give you some examples. On 11 July 1995, the UN forces stood helpless and saw that 7 000 Bosnians were liquidated – perhaps the most cruel massacre in the civil wars in the Balkans. The forces had no mandate to intervene, and for many years afterwards, UN operations were in discredit because of this. NATO intervened, and NATO also assumed responsibility for the stabilisation forces in Bosnia and Kosovo. American democratic politician Richard Holbrooke negotiated the Dayton Agreement. Perhaps the greatest accident on the part of the world society occurred during the genocide in Rwanda. Here, the so-called sovereignty argument was mainly used as an excuse to avoid taking the risk that an intervention would entail. If we go back further, we have other problematic examples. Perhaps the largest and most cruel genocide in recent times stood for the Pol Pot regime in Cambodia. World society was passive spectators to kill half the country's population. Finally, Vietnam intervened and liberated Cambodia from the sufferings of the people, with disastrous consequences for Vietnam that was frozen for violating the sovereignty principle and invaded a neighbouring country. Today there is a humanitarian disaster in Sri Lanka. The government is violating international law by not admitting relief organisations and supplies. Only afterwards will show us if it was a genocide we witnessed. So a little bit of problematization: even harder is actually the slow down of your own people that Robert Mugabe is doing in Zimbabwe. What have we done to prevent the disaster in Zimbabwe? According to ‘Responsibility to Protect’, prevention is very important. I belong to a generation that in its time went on demonstration trains for both Zanu and Patriotic Front. Have we sufficiently tried to prevent the destruction of a country and a people that Mugabe is doing? And does ‘Responsibility to Protect’ apply in a case like Zimbabwe? What are actually crimes against humanity? It was a milestone for the UN when the Summit in September 2005 adopted ‘Responsibility to Protect’. As mentioned earlier, there were four crimes that were recognised as the basis: genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. But as far as I know, there were a number of the original criteria the then Secretary-General Kofi Annan had founded, which were not adopted at the summit. The current Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon, has pointed out the importance of correctly applying the concept to relevant processes. It means a narrow understanding of when the term is to be used. In my view, it is important to stress the importance of the 2005 Summit compromise when the UN is going to consider further ‘Responsibility to Protect’. It's important to focus on people's right to protection. It also includes active prevention – conflict prevention, humanitarian aid, long-term assistance and a systematic build-up after a conflict or civil war. Finally. A review of ‘Responsibility to Protect’ must also take into account Security Council Resolution 1325 of 2000 on women, peace and security. Resolution 1325 sets out, inter alia: demands for women's participation in peace processes, in negotiations and in conflict prevention, but also for an increased proportion of women in peacekeeping forces and in humanitarian missions. Women are particularly affected by violent conflicts. Their efforts for peace and development are often marginalised. That is why it is important to keep this with you in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e252	I would first of all like to commend the interpellant for having focused the search light on a challenging and complicated issue. ‘Responsibility to Protect’ — R2P — is a new concept of international policy dealing with the obligations of a State towards its own citizens and the responsibilities of the international community in cases where a State is unable, or unwillingly, to live up to its obligations towards its own. One of the objectives is to provide a legal and ethical basis for humanitarian intervention. Humanitarian intervention will be relevant to stop genocide, mass killing and other serious violations of human rights. Peace in the Westphalia laid down the principle of non-intervention and sovereignty as the key elements of international policy. R2P adjusts this principle by proposing that the non-intervention principle be invalidated under certain conditions. R2P considers sovereignty not as an authority of the State to control its citizens but as a set of established obligations that the State has towards its inhabitants. During the 1990s, the pressure on international society to protect civilians in other countries grew. Central to this was the inability of international society to prevent genocide in Rwanda and Bosnia. The principles surrounding R2P were first developed by the ICISS in the December 2001 report ‘Responsibility to Protect’. At a historic New York high-level meeting held in the UN General Assembly in 2005, the leaders of the world agreed on the concept of R2P to protect people from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. These obligations were followed up in Security Council Resolution 1674, adopted on 28 April 2006. The High Level Meeting concluded that R2P should be based on diplomatic, humanitarian and other peaceful instruments. Only where these instruments fail should the Security Council be able to implement more comprehensive instruments. If peaceful attempts to find a solution fail, the Security Council will ultimately be able to initiate military operations. Supporters of the concept see it as a way of establishing a normative basis for humanitarian intervention. Opponents argue that the concept will legitimize violations of state sovereignty and aggression directed by foreign powers. Some criticise the concept of being a form of disguised imperialism. In particular, countries that have recently gained their independence are sceptical about R2P. The African Unit Organisation — OAU — the forerunner of the African Union adopted a resolution in 1964 stating that the borders of African countries have been established once for all and cannot be changed. Many developing countries fear that the concept will be abused to serve the interests of the large, powerful countries. Other countries will not allow their troops to participate in operations whose situation does not constitute an immediate national security threat and others will not allow their troops to be commanded by an integrated, foreign command structure. Another criticism is that R2P places too much emphasis on violent conflicts and does not address similar serious events to famine and poverty. This clearly shows that there is a need for both clarifications and clarifications that also take into account to some extent the signals of those who are critical and want changes. It is difficult to assess when and how to intervene. I have listened with interest to the foreign minister's approaches to these very demanding issues and record that he has not found solutions to all these challenges either, but that he is planning to make an active contribution to the future process. The need for further development of the concept is evident, and it is also important that the representative of Vallersnes addresses: clarifying the resources to be deployed by the UN. However, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the complicated debates this year in the UN Member States to be invited to participate in, precisely to further develop the concept and make it more relevant in the light of the new experience we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e296	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who has once again raised a very important debate, and the Foreign Minister for very complementary and good answers. The debate shows that we are very much in agreement here. I would like to stress that the 2005 consensus on the international community's responsibility for protecting the civilian population is a frightful innovation. Responsibility to Protect, or responsibility for protection, does not, as many have said, constitute a blank mandate for military intervention. More important are prevention, reconstruction, diplomacy and dialogue. Military intervention is the last resort, and then – in line with the UN Charter – when there is a clear UN mandate. Let me stress, as the Foreign Minister also did, that it is a clear goal for us, if military presence is needed, to put capacities at the disposal of the United Nations, especially in Africa. In particular, it is currently in Congo. There, as in many other conflicts, there are women and children who pay the most cruel price of war. That's why it's so important that we work actively against rape as weapons of war and alleviate the suffering of the gross sexualized violence that international society cannot close its eyes to. Let me mention another measure, which we can call a prevention measure. When the Raffopris winner Bulambo visited us, it was his wish that initiatives be taken in the UN to identify international companies that are financing the war in the Congo, in order to drain the country for resources. ‘Responsibility for protection’ is based on the important principle that all people have the right to safety and security. It must be followed up by a consistent and non-abuse political will. It is possible to understand some developing countries' scepticism in this area, for the principle was used to explain the active support of former Prime Minister Blair for Bush's disastrous warfare in Iraq. On the other hand, there was no requirement for sanctions when Israel used phosphorus against the civilian population in Gaza. My point is that the innovation ‘responsibility for protection’ can be destroyed if there is a means to and an excuse to justify intervention when it suits NATO or the West, but silently in situations where the West’s friends are perpetrating. The most important thing is to prevent war and assault, and this must, as Marit Nybakk said so clearly, be done with the women's glasses on, in good 1325 spirit. Women are victims of war and conflict, but women also have the resources to be active participants in reconstruction and prevention and in ensuring peace. In fact, they show it every day. On the day that, hopefully, peace is negotiated in the Congo, women must be secured right around the negotiating table. This work is working hard for Norway to strengthen in the United Nations as well. The arms industry is an important driving force behind disarmament, arms trafficking and the use of war as a solution to conflict. It is therefore important that we participate actively – and I know that we do – in the work of an international arms trade convention. Furthermore, there is a huge need for a United Nations-based independent surveillance in view of all forms of war hazard, whether it concerns violations of human rights, ethnic cleansing or upgrading in violation of international treaties. All weapons production and export should in principle be monitored as closely as the IAEA is currently monitoring the production and trade of nuclear material. Here, too, the fight against tax havens comes in, because transparency is needed to prevent transfers of money that terrorist networks and illegal arms dealers need. In particular, there is a need for research on all that we can call peace technology – so developing the dialogue, asking ourselves the question: what actually helps when a conflict is developing? Today, huge resources are being spent on war, weapons and conflict. Then the money is loose. When resources currently used on weapons and war are turned into peacekeeping, disarmament, peace information and development aid that can help fragile states to function, support a civil society – yes, all forms of prevention – the'responsibility to protect' principle can have content that can prevent the enormous suffering that we, for example, are experiencing. see the Tamil civilian population in Sri Lanka today, or among women and children in Congo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e322	Let me first thank the inter-pellant, the representative of Vallersnes, for the initiative for this debate. I think the representative of Vallersnes on several occasions has given the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss important international issues that arise in the international arena, thus helping to strengthen the role of the Stortinge in these kinds of issues. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out in his main post, we are facing a relatively new doctrine with a focus on human security. The principle that we have a ‘protection responsibility’ was formally adopted at the 2005 UN Summit. An important objective is to provide a legal and ethical basis for so-called humanitarian intervention to prevent or stop mass killing and other serious human rights violations. Both as an individual country and as a world society, we have a responsibility to protect people from gross abuse. This new concept does not cover all threats to human security; as mentioned by several, it is limited to four main categories: genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. Let me also stress that the concept involves a responsibility both for preventing such abuses, for responding to them and for restoring them. I would also like to stress that action does not involve the use of power – or military power. A number of instruments have to be used. Both economic, political, diplomatic and legal measures can help protect people from mass abuse. The fundamental responsibility for protecting their own populations against genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity lies, of course, on the states themselves. The international community has a responsibility to assist countries so that they can provide the protection that the population requires. We must also help to build up poor and vulnerable countries after abuse has taken place. It is part of Norway's aid policy. Only in the end, when a state obviously fails to protect its own population and peaceful instruments are insufficient, is a responsibility of the international community to take on stronger instruments, including the use of power, as adopted by the UN Security Council under Chapter VII. In practice, it may be difficult to determine when the outside world should intervene, and often the result is excessive inactivity. The representative of Marit Nybakk mentioned some eloquent examples of this. It has costs on many levels. Here there is a danger of shadowing away. At the same time, some may wish to use the responsibility for protecting the population as a pretext for an intervention that also has other intentions purely political. As today’s debate shows, there are a number of other challenges related to the principle of ‘responsibilities for protection’. Let me mention a current but sad example – the mass violence and the murders of women that have occurred in the civil war in Congo. The use of gender-based and sexual violence as weapons in war is reprehensible. We have a moral responsibility to prevent such mass abuses, we should strengthen the criminal prosecution of the perpetrators and assist in the reconstruction of the affected societies. It is obviously important to develop the criteria for the use of the doctrine of ‘responsibility for protection’. This could be done, for example, by: Consider the extent to which Norway and other countries have applied this new concept in our approach to the situation in Congo and the acute situation in Sri Lanka. Another aspect is the issue of punishment and impunity. R2P covers the same crimes as the International Criminal Court – ICC. We need to be able to follow up on the work to be done in order to overcome the impunity of such serious abuses in Norway's support to the International Criminal Court. I think it's important to focus strongly on the prevention of mass abuse. I have noticed that both the Church's Emergency Aid and other organisations place great emphasis on the need for'responsibilities to protect' to take early action to prevent abuse. A necessary instrument is the development of effective early warning mechanisms that can capture land and populations at risk of this happening before it happens. Here we need both a Norwegian and an international ‘toolbox’ with action options we can take if mass abuse is about to take place. I think it is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that Norway is actively working internationally, and actively also on its own, will contribute to the development of such action options, such criteria and such tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e345	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an interesting, difficult and important issue of human rights, and for the profound and clear opinions of the Foreign Minister. I get into a difficult dilemma very quickly when it comes to «Responsibility to protection» – or «responsibility to protect». The left is based on a long humanitarian tradition and sees that, in some cases, intervention by the world community may be justified or required to prevent a humanitarian disaster, ethnic cleansing or genocide. Burma, after the devastating cyclone, is a striking example. The UN wanted to rescue the Burmese, but was effectively held out of the military junta. Another nearby example, which has also been mentioned by several, is Sudan. Here, cynical rulers have been able to prevent the UN peacekeeping forces from escaping into Darfur. Travel-ready Norwegian forces thus had to pack their equipment – and stay here at home. A third example that I would like to draw up is the genocide in Rwanda in the 1990s. Here the UN had to support what happened without being able to do anything. Today, Zimbabwe, Congo and Sri Lanka are very worrying countries when we discuss this issue. I think it is most frustrating to witness this. It is deplorable to have to sit passive and see that the UN does not seem to be active when the organisation is needed as much as possible. However, intervention without a clear mandate from local leaders is not unproblematic either. The left is for a world governed by laws and rules that apply to everyone – small and large, poor and rich. The question is whether this should also apply to a military regime such as: of the kind we have in Burma. It shows great contempt for international laws and regulations, and it should not necessarily be allowed to hide behind them in order to operate in peace. We are talking here about gross abuse of our own people. But here it's hard to draw clear boundaries. What regimes are legitimate to intervene on a humanitarian basis, and which are not? Here we come quickly into almost impossible balances. In addition, an intervention in a country such as Burma could create a precedent that can easily be abused by actors who do not necessarily have noble intentions. Creating a new world order with a floating limit as to where and when one can intervene, even on a humanitarian basis, is not necessarily something we will be served with. As social liberals, I am therefore opposed to the choice of breaking international driving rules to intervene ashore on a humanitarian basis and to comply with these rules, but watch a humanitarian disaster unfold. I am therefore very pleased that the UN has addressed this issue and will now continue to work on it, and that the organisation will be able to debate again later this year ‘responsibility for protection’. I agree with those who believe that there is a need for further development, both conceptually and politically. That being said, I would like to add that part of the problem is probably also the United Nations system itself. I am among the best friends and supporters of the United Nations in Norway, but nevertheless I believe that the World Organisation needs a comprehensive reform. The target should include, inter alia: be able to deal with humanitarian crises that seem to be powerless today. I'm going to be the first to admit that this is not easy, given the resistance to the changes found in the United Nations system. In the meantime, it may seem that the distance between the UN and reality down on the ground, of which the World Organisation is intended to be part, is increasing. I really hope that the UN finds even clearer balances to be able to prevent violations and save individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e365	I thank all the participants in the debate. This is not an easy topic, it's a difficult one. I think it has been good posts. I am very pleased that no one has raised the question of the role of the Security Council, because I know there is a debate going on out there that says that one should transfer some of the responsibility for taking these decisions to the main assembly. I think that's a dangerous way to go. We do not have time to address a debate on the further development of the Security Council now, it is one of the difficult challenges of the UN reform, but we have probably pointed out that perhaps one could help by developing criteria, guidelines, for when and how to apply R2P in the light of the Security Council's decisions. Then I hope that in the foreign minister's involvement in the matter there is also a willingness to enter into the very difficult topic of developing the concept of sovereignty. It is an essential part of this, and perhaps the most ‘touchy’. I noticed the Foreign Minister's observation that working across group interests in the international community is a challenge in this context. We know that we are in a time when there are many lines of conflict that define the interests of groups. It's going on energy, natural resources, trade and economics, and, as the theme today also shows, it's to the most extent a struggle for values. What values should we build on in international law and society? It's hard, and there I think we should engage strongly. I would like to end by saying that I think it is important to have fundamental debates of this kind in Stortinget, although they are about very heavy and difficult issues. It's a challenge for us in the Biggest, because our government councils, of course, as part of the task they're going to do, participate in conferences on different themes and on our behalf like joining final documents and declarations – whether it's from Monterrey, Paris, Accra, Doha, the food meeting in Roma, Durban, or where it is now. And when you do that, it adds some long-term leads to how we orientate the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy and development policy. We have the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee to discuss some of the issues, but I think it's a challenge for the Storting itself to take the goal of being engaged at an early enough time in such matters, and to interfere a little bit in the debate on what will be the Norwegian leaders. This is how I thank all those who have taken part in the debate for it, although I realize that this is not the easiest topic to invite to debate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e376	The representative, Mr Vallersnes, thanked everyone who took part in the debate. I think everyone who took part in the debate thanks the interpellant for setting the agenda. I would like to stress that the last thing the representative says is an important topic – let me not call it a problem issue. It's actually important – and believe me – that we've had an hour's debate on this in the hall, where for natural reasons it's not strong contradictions. On the contrary, we build up under a long Norwegian tradition to discuss these value themes, and it is important for us when we take it out. I'm in the interview with my foreign policy statement, and it's very demanding to have room for all the fundamental questions we should be discussing. So you get to carry over with that speaking time again is going to be a little bit stretched. Debates in the Chamber on these issues are important to us further. In some contexts, such as: in the case of Afghanistan policy, it is of direct importance for those outbound, that there is a clear anchoring and that is expressed from there. But even when we are representatives of Norway in many contexts, including among parliamentarians, it is important that we are involved in this. The concept of sovereignty is, of course, very central and demanding. The Norwegian UN Ambassador said in the 1970s, after Vietnam's intervention: Despite my clear condemnation of the Khmer Rouge regime, I cannot accept the invasion. And that was in many ways the world community's attitude. The consequences were described here. The dilemma is obvious. I would also like to commend the representative Nybakk and the representative, Mr Valle, who are pointing out the situation right now in Sri Lanka. It's hard to stand in the middle of a situation where you have the deepest suspicions of what could happen, and draw the conclusion of what it was supposed to say. It also reveals some of the impotence of the international community in such a situation. Finally, I would like to point out what the representative, Højbråten, says, which I believe is the essence of this, namely prevention. It is true, as in so many other parts of society, to prevent us from getting into a situation where these questions, which are almost impossible, are put to the fore – intervention is the last of a wide range of other measures. And I like the approach, a broader toolbox to deal with what could be disastrous situations for civilians. The war on terror, the concept, has, in my opinion, been a serious siding in the fight for better conditions for vulnerable groups. History will show whether that concept has been harmful or beneficial. But we now notice that there is a much broader debate internationally, and bigger, we should say, consensus – because of the shift in the United States – about the importance of a very wide toolbox that tries out all these prevention areas with emphasis on governance, democracy, human rights and politics, before coming to the seemingly simple but extremely complicated theme of power use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e393	Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-05.ana.ud981e406	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
