ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e22	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e25	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Gjermund Hagesetter, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative of NOK 22 000 for a car that is 20 years old or older.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e30	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e49	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tora Aasland State Council Trond Gian State Council Sylvia Brustad The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e68	My question goes to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The impact of the financial crisis on the real economy is now an obvious reality. The unemployment rate is increasing so fast that the government is barely able to pay the daily allowance to those who lose the job, and business is now in the midst of a wave of bankruptcy. According to the NRK, 142 companies went bankrupt only last week – an increase of 50 pst. in relation to last year. According to the Bankruptcy Register, it is now personalised by entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises that are affected. This is very serious. 99.5 pst. by enterprises in Norway have 100 or fewer employees. The government has presented a series of so-called crisis packages. There are measures to make the banking sector work. There are measures to reduce interest rates. There are public investment and some small steps to put the tax on enterprises that have deficits in 2008 at risk for enterprises that have machinery investment or research activity. The right has supported most, but we have been very critical of two relationships. The measures are unnecessarily late, and the government is still using only half of the toolbox in the management of the financial crisis. And that's a fact: the government has doubts about tax increases for small and medium-sized enterprises. While the country is hit by financial crisis, bankruptcy and mass unemployment, red-green people choose to increase the tax on working capital in businesses and to increase the tax on generational shifts in family businesses. Since the Government took over in 2005, corporate taxes and taxes have increased by nearly DKK 11 billion compared to the last draft budget of the Bondevik II government. For many, tax increases are the only direct effect of the 2009 budget, and there is no doubt that these tax increases are weakening jobs in Norway. Yesterday, the Danish government announced a tax cut of NOK 26 billion to speed up business. When will the Norwegian Government use the entire toolbox to strengthen businesses and secure jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e83	There is no doubt that many companies also in Norway are in a difficult situation as a result of some of the most serious economic setback we have seen in many, many years in Norway, which is a result of the financial crisis that started in the United States, which is also a result of market forces being ruled as freely as they would – something I have seen that the Right is in favour. This also leads to challenges for many jobs in Norway. It takes the government the most seriously. I'm recording that the right again has the same record, that it's too late and too little, but there's an enormous amount of money that's now been deposited. I'm glad that the Right also supported most of the proposals to save the jobs that can be saved. And I want to say, what is now the biggest challenge is to take care of the individual people that are being hit here. That's why we're now doing important actions related to Nav, so people are going to get daily money and other things when they need it. But we also have to make sure that we get an even more competitive business once we get through this crisis. That's why we've used all of the tools we now have. This also applies to changes that are positive in relation to taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises. We are now doing what we can to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis and to preserve and create new jobs in Norway. But there is no doubt that unfortunately, some people will lose their jobs because the financial crisis strikes as hard as it does with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e92	I thank you for your answer. But the answer unfortunately confirms what everyone sees, that you only use half of the toolbox. The government is stuck in an ideological hegemony, probably as a result of the Soria Moria declaration stating that the taxes should be increased during this hegemony period. Now the situation has changed altogether, and new measures are needed. Let me do an example. An industry that has noticed the red-green food policy is the maritime sector. They received 14 billion kroner in tax increases in 2007 – 1.4 billion of these are due now in April. There is no doubt that the payment of DKK 1.4 billion will weaken the ability to give assignments to the yard industry, to give assignments to the coastal supply industry. It is possible that it was perhaps an interesting political matter to take rich shipowners in 2007, at a time when companies were running high profits, but now this is a tax increase that is going to hit jobs along the coast. I think the government sees that too. I don't ask the government if it will now reverse the entire tax case in relation to the maritime cluster, but don't you see that it's a point now to postpone these tax payments, so you don't hit jobs along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e99	Firstly, we have very close contact with representatives of this industry, and many of them are pleased with the changes we have now made. It's about, for example, that we gave the opportunity that export finance could lend about 50 billion dollars over two years. It was an important requirement from parts of that industry, including the supplier industry. The fact that we made changes so that we got more money for the Guarantee-Institute for Export Credit means about 100 billion kroner, which can not least be used for export-oriented industries. It is also the case that the important measures now proposed — and some of them have already been adopted in the UK — which are aimed at restoring the functioning of the banks, will also have a very positive impact on this industry. In addition, we have also taken action to ensure that more can be carried out as equity – with which the representative is well-known – with which the industry is also very satisfied. So we're taking this challenge very seriously, and that's not what the representative here is saying, that we're using half the toolbox. We spend more money than ever in this serious, demanding situation to save jobs and to create new ones. It also applies within the maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e106	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e109	There are many employees and managers in small and medium-sized enterprises now fighting every day to secure their jobs, and the only thing they've got from the red-green government is a bag of increased taxes. I hear the Minister of Industry says that she is committed to ensuring that the companies become more competitive. That is a word, because there is no action here. For what is it that small and medium-sized enterprises have received from the red-green government? Well, there's increased taxes on ownership. And when you increase the tax on ownership, that means that companies have to drain the company for equity. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs explain to me how to secure jobs and ensure the competitiveness of businesses when the Government contributes to companies losing the company for equity in order to pay the tax to Kristin Halvorsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e116	There is no doubt that many small and medium-sized enterprises also face challenges due to the financial crisis. I think we all agree on that. But the picture that the representative and the right are trying to draw from that doesn't do anything here, doesn't match reality, and it doesn't match the feedback we get from a lot of companies. I had a late meeting yesterday with representatives of the entire construction and property industry. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises. They had many important messages. One of the important messages was that they were very pleased with what is inside the state budget, in different action packages and in banking packages, which will now give more small and medium-sized enterprises jobs, allowing more people to keep their jobs around the whole country. So that reality is not right. I also think that the representative, Sanner, is not following the Stortinget Sea Decision, and on what the Government proposes, there are a wide range of instruments here: Innovation Norway, the Guarantee Institute of Export Credit and Enova. So one can do a lot more to the environment and industry, [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e125	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e129	Of the answers given by the Council of State here, I understand that she has not correctly understood how serious the situation we are in, and it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that are first affected by this crisis. It's just to keep an eye on what's going on internationally. It's serious, and it's going to reproduce quite vigorously here to Norway during the spring. It is quite clear that tax relief would provide a rapid flow of liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also obvious that the government did not use important weeks and months now in the autumn to come up with measures that could have worked much earlier than the package that the government has brought with it. I'm glad the council said she wanted a more competitive business. What concrete measures will the Council of State now take in the field of regulatory simplification, with regard to tax relief, etc., so that small and medium-sized enterprises get the best framework conditions for the world in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e136	I just have to repeat that I totally disagree with the reality description that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr here is also trying to give. What we fully agree on is that there is a challenging situation for many businesses and many individuals. It takes the government the most seriously. But from that to trying to present it as if this government were doing nothing, it is certainly completely wrong. What do we do to make more companies more adaptable now? Well, we've been using the whole tool. And it's interesting now that the Progress Party comes here and criticises this government because we're spending too little on an instrument that the Progress Party has cut in many laps in this big business. We have filled Innovation Norway, which means a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises. We are now filling in a new scheme that has also been adopted here in Stortinget, Investinor, which now has 2.2 billion kroner to go into new businesses with. Argentum has got NOK 2 billion more in equity, and we have filled in all of the arrangements we have, also to that part of the industry that is most export oriented. Then, unfortunately, it will be that someone loses the job, and we're doing everything we can to take care of these people and to create new jobs. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e143	The President must ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e146	99 pst. by enterprises in Norway are small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a company that is characterized by active owners who take an active part in the company and by a life that is not characterized by bonuses and high wages, as it may be in other parts of the business. This is a very important company, not least for District Norway. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed to remove the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family businesses. The Christian People's Party wants to do this gradually, so that we can ensure good generation change. The European Commission has also stated that for every successful generation change we receive, we can secure five jobs. Then, unfortunately, the government has instead increased the inheritance fees for these companies. Will the Council look at the possibility of removing the inheritance fee for family businesses in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e153	Now, the fact is that with regard to the changes proposed by the Government and endorsed by the Stortinget – not from the Christian People's Party, but from other parties – there are many who will now benefit from making it easier for us to inherit houses and huts for ordinary people. I assume that the Christian People's Party is also concerned about that. I also agree that small and medium-sized enterprises are the whole backbone of Norwegian business. They make up 95 pst. It is clear that the measures we have now taken will also have the greatest impact on them. One example of that is the proposal we've had to be able to recover deficits, so you can get cash out of it now pretty quickly. In particular, it will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. So it's wrong when it's claimed that we're not also using the tax resource to help a lot of companies in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e160	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e163	Crisis times or not — in any case, it is important that the public sector can answer questions and be available when companies need help and quick answers. There are examples that local departments of government and public services do not provide local telephone numbers, only e-mail addresses and faxes; you should contact a national 800 number. Then you are told to make a digit selection, which is followed by that you, for example. stands as number 245 in a row - please wait. Then you wait 15 minutes, you'll be notified that you're the number. 229 in the queue. The result, of course, is that you give up, you put on. Business managers cannot use the day to wait. The question that the trader wants to ask remains unanswered. Does the Council of State think that this is an example of an accessible and good public apparatus, and what will the Council of State do to improve this, especially at these times, when questions need to be answered?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e172	No, this isn't good enough at all. I would like to know a little more about what agency we are talking about here, because – and I fully agree with the representative in – it has to be so that everyone now treats things quickly, that people get answers quickly, that businesses get answers quickly, that it is a quick handling of applications – thorough, clear, but fast. That's why last week I had a meeting with my whole tool, that's what's under the Ministry of Food and Trade. They're set to deal with things quickly and take extraordinary meetings to get away from matters. I want to know what this is about, because this is not the way it should be, and then we're going to make sure it changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e179	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e182	I have a question for the Minister of Research and Higher Education. After Siv Jensen's national rule hall this weekend, a debate on Islamisation has flared up in Norwegian society. The progress party has warned against this because we have seen many danger signals. We've seen parallels in our neighbouring countries that have led to unwanted situations, and we've had a desire to stop this negative development. I had almost said as usual, the Progress Party is attacked and accused of both one and the other of our political opponents, and it does not seem as if it is political will to address the basic danger signals we see, but it is about doing what is so politically correct. Yesterday on the TV2 news, we got an entry from the lecture hall at the University of Oslo, where the Norwegian imam Zulqarnain Sakandar Madni dosed in front of a meeting. In his speech he went quite far in claiming that it was the American authorities that were behind the terrorist attacks on 11 September, and he suggests that 4,000 Jews knew about the coming attack, so that they stayed home from work at the World Trade Center that day. In my opinion, it was frightening to hear the rhetoric that the imam spoke. We have also heard of this imam that he has claimed that Al Qaida and bin Laden were fictional. The Progress Party, like Voltaire, will protect and fight for freedom of expression as long as we are able to stand on our feet. Therefore, we believe that a good way to respond to such statements is to turn our backs on the one who is presenting the message, to demonstrate our disagreement. In this case, the Oslo College has invited him into the heat, and he is given his message in line with other teaching staff. My question will then be: Does the Council of State believe that it is a sound practice to hire such a lecturer at an institution to disseminate knowledge? Is this an example of follow-up for other colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e195	Now the Council of State is not running and is looking for individual lectures at our universities and colleges. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Gåsvatn, that freedom of expression must apply, whether it is for the Progress Party and their national government meetings or it is for imams and others who are invited to speak, for example. at colleges. That is exactly what I think we should agree on. Freedom of expression is important no matter what the reaction is, and no matter what one might think of it being expressed. I think it is important to maintain freedom of expression as a very high value, also in our higher education institutions. I have full confidence that what may be of the necessary critical debate on such statements is expressed both in colleges and universities and in society. It is a positive aspect of our society, which I believe should be diverse and based on freedom of expression, that there is the possibility of having a debate on such difficult issues as integration issues, which are different values and different views on cultures and religions. There are many speculative theories about many of the relationships that the representative has. I have also heard and read about this. But it must be entirely possible to be allowed to talk about such things and invite to a debate in society on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e207	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say I'm a little disappointed. What's the next thing we can expect? Is it an extreme Muslim who believes that Israel and the Israeli people should be removed from the map? Or is it a nynazist who tells us that Holocaust has never taken place, but that it has been invented by Jews to gain sympathy? Does the Council of State really mean – I hear she says that, but does she really mean – that all the students have developed a sufficiently source-critical sense, so that they are able to review such extreme claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e214	I want to defend the right to speak for the longest and all the time, even if what you say is completely unfounded in everything there is logic and science. Having such opinions and inviting such persons mentioned here to a university or university has always been an inspiration for important debate and inspiration for important social criticism. I trust that the management of our educational sites has the necessary ballast in relation to critical comments, critical views and very important follow-up of the type of statements, whether it is about statements from Gåsvatn's own party president, to which many responded, or about statements that are described here from a university in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e221	There will be follow-up questions – Åse M. Schmidt.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e224	Integration is one of the main challenges we face in the debate on immigration. Labour Party politician Abdelmajid Jerad earlier this month called for Norway to have its own imam education. The head of the Islamic Federation, Basim Ghozlan, has also demanded it. Is that what the Council of State shares? And if so, does the Council of State feel that this will also promote integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e229	This government is concerned that we have a public and good education offer, and I have to say that personally I have no particular desire to have such education in Norway. But what is important in relation to all educational services and all our universities and universities, which are autonomous institutions, is that we get any applications for what may be educational provision, and evaluate it in the usual way. I think it's important, as I said in my previous answer, that we have a diverse and lively debate in Norway, but I reserve the right to say yes or no in consultation with my professional authorities about what education should be at the individual educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e234	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e237	Freedom of expression and freedom to exercise one's religion are two fundamental values in Norwegian society, which one has to fight for every single day. It has shown us not least the debate of the last few weeks. The fact that different positions are expressed in public space and can be met with serious counter-argument is an essential part of freedom of expression. Thus, there must also be platforms to externalise these positions, even if they are special. In the case of conspiracy theories, they have always lived in the best of all societies at all times. The conspiracy theory of 9/11 lives as a separate industry in the United States. In Norway, we also have conspiracy theories, e.g. the theory of conspiracy on the Islamisation of Norway. All these opinions should be able to be transmitted and should be met with good counter-arguments. Does the Council of State feel that it is also important that Norwegian universities and higher education institutions facilitate the emergence of opinions so that an open and free debate can be held?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e244	The clear and brief answer to that is: Yes, of course. At all times, our educational institutions — and not just in Norway but around the world — have had an important role to play in enabling us, with knowledge and with good science, to take on the important debates where we are challenged either on culture, on religion or on various forms of conspiracy theories. If we suppressed this, we'd get a society that I don't think Bent Höie or I would appreciate it very much. We are concerned that it should be possible to express ourselves, but we are also concerned that the important project, let us call it the educational project, which is at our higher education institutions, should enable students, teachers and professors to meet this debate in a good and constructive way. We're not supposed to push it under the carpet, we're supposed to take it as an open debate with good arguments and with good knowledge at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e249	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e252	I very much agree with what Bent Höie said, that it is not an objective to limit the opinion, but that one must meet the opinion with debate. What worries me about what has happened and the event that was the intent of this, is that we see that there will be no debate. Academia meets it with silence. And I'm worried if it turns out that we have such a level of education in the Norwegian community that you don't use the academy for debate, that you don't use the opportunity to also meet ideas with motives and thoughts of counterthinking. Today, we see that Abid Raja manages to have debates at the House of Literature, which are proper debates, where people are actually in a process where you meet and where you can break up with ideas, when you see that the Academy becomes silent when you get thoughts that you may not share – you don't dare to meet them. Is not the Minister of Research and Higher Education concerned that the Academy does not meet such ideas when they are presented in the academic space?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e257	All credit to Abid Raja and all the others who start important debates at the House of Literature and elsewhere, but I actually don't agree with Trine Skei Grande's description of the academic environment. I mean there's a debate there, although, of course, I think there might have been better debates before. I guess everyone who has been a student and was involved in the debates a generation ago will. Nevertheless, it is absolutely now, I think, very exciting approaches to – and not just approaches, but it is also arranged for – debates, for example. a debate that the representative Skei Grande knows very well, which is about the education project of universities and colleges. That education project is also about facilitating free speech to meet the integration challenges, to meet the cultural and religious challenges of just universities and higher education. So we just get to encourage, in common maybe, students and professors at our colleges to take even more part in this kind of debate, because we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e263	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e266	Most debates become pleasant when they go on a general level, for freedom of expression, for education. What is alarming from the debate is that, according to the media reviews in the videos, there are no critical comments either from the chairman, from the room or from other counter-debateants. I could go further and recommend Professor Bernt Hagtvet's genocide lecture at the university. There's pressure on the debates. Here comes the claims about antisemitism, and what it might be, on the table. The comment is qualified. The Council of State and the undersigned, and the Left, are for formation, we are for generalisation, and we are for free expression. But I just want to stress and repeat Trine Skei Grande's question: Isn't it a matter of concern when it says that neither the chairman of the vocabulary, from the hall, nor from other counter-debateants came up against the opinion on 11 September?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e271	There are many arenas that should be better organized for debates and for critical counter- performances. And I must say to the Greatness that these spontaneous questions are a good example of that. But I've also learned that that's not all the media writes about debates that are 100 pst. That's right. I have actually been present in some debates where it is a bit difficult to recognize in the minutes. So I reserve the right to believe that this might have been some critical voices to what's referred to in the media. And then Dørum and I and others together are encouraged to dare to take the debates, dare to be critical, and hope that the generation that is growing up now, as students and as teachers, may be equally concerned with getting the critical perspective of a debate that was held in the 1960s and 1970s.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e276	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e279	I want to address my question to the Minister of Industry. In 2007, the country bought over 33 million axles in Aker Solutions. The purchase price was over SEK 4.8 billion, and the opposition was already very critical of the government's use of money and that one went into the company as a shareholder. Today, the loss is NOK 3.7 billion, yes, close to NOK 4 billion. We can also record that €2.5 billion of these have gone into Kjell Inge Smoke's pocket. Professor Thore Johnsen was also very skeptical, and he believed that the state paid an overprice. From Aker's side, this agreement was described as 'a very first-class agreement for Aker'. That's what Leif Arne Langøy said in 2007. There are several things the Christian People's Party asks questions about. There were no financial advisors used in this matter. It was found in the Storting setting. The second was that the state got far worse terms than other shareholders. I show you, among other things: to the Wallenberg Foundation, which was in and made the same purchase, but made sure that they did not take any risks. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this should not repeat itself. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will it work to ensure that we have new guidelines that ensure 1) that professionals join when transactions of this size are involved – then I am thinking of financial expertise – and 2) that the state does not get much worse terms than other actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e292	First of all, let me say that I note that there is disagreement in opinions between the alternate Hareide and the Hareide who is now involved, namely Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn, who stated in connection with exactly what was happening in Aker Solutions, that one of the agreements ensures that: ‘closeness between the central owners and the enterprise’s operations and a guarantee that the enterprise is still leased from Norway. This is positive for both Aker Kværner and Norwegian supplier industry. It is also positive that the State forms an alliance with companies that have demonstrated peak competence before industrial development over many years.» Ingreigt S. Sørfonn said this to NyhetsBlikket.no on 22 June 2007. I agree with the statements made by Mr Sørfonn. So when it comes to the question of whether the representative Hareide here says is loss, it is that the values of the state's portfolio at Oslo Børs – as a result of the financial crisis we are now in, which has largely also hit Norway – have fallen by over NOK 360 billion. For Aker Solutions, we're talking about $4 billion. When we look at DNB NOR, we're talking about 25 billion kroner, Norwegian Hydro 34 billion dollars less than when they were at the highest -- to take a few examples. This is about being a long-term owner. As a long-term owner, you have to be on downhills – now we are inside an extreme downhill – but we also have to be on foot, and they are guaranteed to come back. I know it's not allowed to ask counter questions, but it's at least allowed to reflect on the following: Is it so that the representative Hareide believes that we should also do something about our ownership in Hydro, StatoilHydro, DnB NOR and other companies where it has become less valuable as a result of the financial crisis, much more than what we're talking about in Aker Solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e308	What's important here is that we use professional advisors when we enter into transactions of this size. I note that the Council of State does not respond if she thinks we should use expertise in questions about transactions up to NOK 5 billion. That does not respond to the Council of States. So the Council of State also knows very well that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right went against this acquisition when this matter was being dealt with in the United Kingdom in 2007. I noticed that the State Secretary of State Sylvia Brustad said this had been a good purchase. Then I wonder, what is a bad purchase for the state, when it is a good purchase that we have lost NOK 3.7 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e315	I record that the representative Hareide does not respond to the challenge related to the question that the values have fallen significantly more in other companies where the state is a major owner. Yes, we believe that this was right, because this is part of ensuring long-term and stable ownership. This helps to ensure that we can keep our head office in Norway for at least 10 years. This contributes to the continued leadership of Aker Solutions in some areas of international, but also national, energy, oil and gas supply. It's important. It is important for Norwegian jobs. Then I don't have any problem answering the questions about advisers. Legal advisors were used to buy Aker Solutions. When it was considered that there was no financial necessity two years ago, it was because the value of the company, that is, Aker Kværner, was well known in the market. It was so that this was known as a listed company, and it was a thoroughly analyzed company. This is the case, and the practice has also been under previous governments, that on a case-by-case basis, the number of external consultants a user and the external consultants a user.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e324	There will be follow-up questions – Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e327	Of course, it is tempting for a government council to make individual quotes based on what the government provided from information when the purchase was made. Then we know that when you had the opportunity to look a little bit closer to the conditions on which the state went into the company, there was every reason to call for warning. But I record that the Council of State doesn't think there's any reason to start with some blank papers in this kind of case, and I actually have to ask: When you look at the rearview mirror, this purchase, in the opinion of the Council of State, is an example of follow-up, or is it, as she herself has said, an excellent contribution to what is the Government's active industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e332	We are not ashamed of this purchase at all. This is to ban active ownership policies. This is about having Norwegian control over an important company that is important for Norwegian jobs. On the question of whether to have guidelines that apply in all types of companies, I believe it will be wrong. Firstly, we have an investigation manual, which the representative is certainly well aware of, and it is clear that we need to go through different consequences before we present it. It can be done in different ways, and it'll also depend on which companies we're talking about here. Are there companies that are listed, well known, analyzed, or are there companies where you don't know well enough about those things? Then you have to use different types of advisors, as we see it. So I mean that guidelines that are going to be exactly the same in all companies, won't be appropriate or practical. But, of course, it is that in decisions as big as, for example, in the case of Aker Solutions, it is assessed in a thorough manner before proposing it. It was done then. It is kept up-to-date in future cases as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e340	Kåre Fostervold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e343	I have still not fully understood, through the answers provided by the Council of State, whether she will consider new guidelines. It would have been very good to get an answer to that. It's hard to be on the owner's side when it comes to companies at Oslo Stock Exchange, especially in these times. And state participation can be positive for maintaining jobs, we recognize that. At the same time, I would just like to remind the House that the Progress Party took as a premise the time we dealt with the Aker case, that we had to sell ourselves into other companies, so that the state ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange was not too extensive. But there's another way to use state capital, and that's to make risk capital available to Norwegian businesses. Especially in these days, we can read about the extensive bankruptcies taking place in Norway. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether it will make even more capital available to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not given any special help through the crisis package presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e352	We're concerned with a long-term ownership. That means we also have to have ice in our stomachs when there are demanding times that are now. Right now, the values have gone down in quite a few companies – it's known to the representative. For example, StatoilHydro, Hydro and DnB NOR have decreased significantly more than Aker Solutions. It's about thinking in the long term, and the fact that the state is such a big owner, has also been stabilising in the situation we're in, and in relation to the stock exchange in general. For that reason, too, it is important that the state owns a part, from our point of view. So that's how we're concerned about being able to deal with small and medium-sized enterprises, which I thought was the second part of the question. That is why we have now significantly increased those arrangements, for example: in Innovation Norway, which is a high-risk issue. This means that they can go into more enterprises, and they can go into higher amounts, and they can also take a little more risk in some contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e359	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e362	There is no doubt that the purchase in Aker Holding was surprising. It was very risky, it was complicated and undoubtedly amateur executed by the Government. It is unacceptable to spend DKK 5 billion on the purchase of shares in a non-listed holding company without having the economic impact determined, when there are in addition difficult, complex shareholder agreements affecting the values of the State. It was a red-green fault cut. But I want to ask the Council of State a fundamental question. In today's situation, there are many companies that can imagine state ownership. There is a lack of capital in the business community, many enterprises belonging to the so-called key industries, which have important employees and which have important competences in Norway. What are the principles of the Government’s possible future acquisitions in Norwegian business? Will the oil fund be opened up to new businesses in this kind of situation, or was this a one-off event that will not be repeated?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e369	I completely disagree with Mr Hansen's claim that this was «amatrically». This was done in a proper, proper way. I respect that the Right and Government with the then State Council disagreed whether this was right or not. It's a real debate. However, this government believes that having state ownership on a very large scale — and this is stated in the ownership message — is important for many reasons. Not least, it is about being able to maintain more jobs in Norway, have control by the Norwegian side and have head offices in Norway. I want to add, as I said before: it has also helped stabilise the situation now, in the demanding situation that we are in. In the future, something is reflected in the ownership message, and the representative Hansen is very well aware that this does not comment on me until situations arise where it should be relevant. But we think it's still important with great state ownership, and this is an example of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e376	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e379	In Chapter 7.5 of the Ownership Message, the Government writes the following: «The objective of ownership of the commercial companies is to ensure that the invested capital of the State reaches the highest rate of return over time.» In addition, it says: «Unclear objectives may also lead to a belief by capital markets that the State has objectives other than those of the State, which may adversely affect the value of the State's shares.» In the news today, we could hear that the State Secretary of the Council of State Øyvind Slage expressed a startling arrogance over what the Government itself says in the announcement of ownership, and almost defecating the value of the investments – it is irrelevant as long as the jobs remain in Norway, i.e. a highly unclear target of the invested capital. The question then arises: with regard to the country's ownership and return objectives, is it established as formulated in the ownership notification, or are these principles set aside as soon as there are establishments that threaten to move out?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e394	My State Secretary is not arrogant, I will demand that. And that's absolutely right, what he also said on the radio this morning, that we have different goals for the different companies, as explained and explained in the ownership message. The financial crisis we're now in, which is extremely demanding for many companies and many individuals, also affects the value of the stock exchange. I won't call it loss, because it goes up, and it goes down. Right now, the values have gone down quite extremely – NOK 360 billion. We're thinking in the long term. This means that for us, it is important that we manage to control jobs in Norway, for example. as we did with Aker Solutions, that we maintain headquarters in Norway, and that we ensure that, for example. the company may continue to be a leading supplier within, for example: oil, gas and energy. I think it is unusually important to have ice cream in your stomach in the demanding time we are now in. We're also going to be there when the uphill comes back.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e405	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e408	I have a question for the minister of the church, so he won't be able to sit down completely. We have dealt with many things in Stortinget – many big things – that go on church policy and our relationship with Kirka. It's State Church Announcement, Church Democracy – which is now there – it's the Information Service Fund. It's all about our relationship with Kirka. We've done a lot of work to loosen the ties between the state and the church. Sick if the Council of State has the Church Minister as its title in its Governmental portfolio, however, I believe it may be right today to raise the question that we have very little debate and politics associated with other religious communities. We discuss little in this room where the boundaries between religion and community, the place of religion in public space, the relationship between individual and religion, what we should tolerate in public space, and what we should tolerate by interference with individuals. We have a party leader who has seats in this hall who believes we are exposed to a blizzard. Actually, the whole area of religion should be the responsibility of the Council of State. Should it not now perhaps be time to give an opportunity to lift up in this Chamber – in the Grand Duchy – a debate on religious policy and on what values and norms we as a state should base, what we should tolerate, what we should not tolerate, and what consequences it has for religious policy? My question is whether the Council of State wants to give Stortinget an opportunity for such a debate, which might have been tricked into the culture of debate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e420	I think the question asked by the representative of Skei Grande is a good and relevant question. This is one of the most important debates of our time. We're going from being a very homogeneous society to becoming a very diverse society. How this challenges us – challenges our usual attitudes, challenges our tolerance, but also our ability to put down some cornerstones of what is acceptable – are important debates. I believe that precisely the church settlement that this great gathering held in our company serves to honor us, because it shows that in such issues, which create deep conflicts – yes, even violent conflicts – in many other parts of the world, we in the Grand Duchy are actually able to find the broadest solutions. One of the things we do is about other religious and life-view societies. We propose that we establish for the first time that all religious and life views have the same right to equal treatment from the state. We're changing Section 2, which today says that the country's religion is the evangelical Lutheran, and gets a broader value base for the whole society. At the same time, we state that we still have a relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church. We meet this area of conflict in many, many different contexts. Perhaps the latest weeks' hijab discussion is a current example. I think it has to be handled in all these different areas, individually, in their contexts. But that it is also put in a larger context and is discussed in full, I fully agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that we need to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e431	I conclude that the Council of State agrees with me, but will not help us get such a debate into the Stortinget. But he also raised another question, and it was the handling of the hijacking debate. We have now had several debates that touch the relationship between individual and religion and community/state and religions. The government has handled it a little differently. I'm not going to say now what I think about that handling, but does the Council of State, from the point of view of a minister of the church, mean that the government's handling has been ideal for the unions for the debate on the place of religion in public space?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e438	I believe at least that the conclusions are very good, seen from both the position of the Minister of the Church and the Minister of Freedom of Speech. The government is now proposing something that the previous government did not propose, namely to cancel the blow-up paragraph. I think that's the right step. It hasn't been used in many decades, and it gives the freedom of expression even greater space at least formally, although the real space has already been there. At the same time, opinions and freedom of expression shall be used responsibly. Although we have a right of freedom of expression, we also have a responsibility not to dwell on the main integrity of other people, for example. their faith. Even if we have a right to that, it makes sense to approach other people with a sense of responsibility. At the same time, society has the right to say what we do not accept in the name of religion. For example, we accept. not besieged, even if it should happen in the name of a religion. We don't accept coercion. We don't accept a number of other things, even if it happens in the name of religion. There we have a right as a society to put down certain rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e447	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e450	This is the country's most important pulpit. Here we discuss most of the things. The reason why the Left, through Trine Skei Grande's contributions, has now raised the question of whether we should not promise and discuss religious policy, has affected the Council of State. It must be urgent to be able to do so, when we experience that, in everyone's opinion, dialogue is vital, real and proper in the House of Literature, first after the Gaza demonstrations and then about blasphemy. Then, in a big deal, where, as the Council of State has said, we have managed to gather on a value paragraph in the Constitution, it must be possible to address the demanding debate that Trine Skei Grande raised. To ask the question to the Council of State: does he not see the point of discussing how freedom of faith can be protected in a society with many religions without violating other human rights? That's what's at the heart of what we need to be able to discuss. It'll be a little bit special when you put similarity signs between, for example, the wearing of a hijab and genital mutilation. Then, with respect to reporting, the level of information is not high in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e457	If the Storting are to have the ambition to ensure that the level of knowledge and the level of information is high enough in all debates, I think we will get a lot of big messages in the future, but that this speaker should also be used to discuss the issues that the representatives of Skei Grande and now of Dørum are raising, I fully agree. I'd like to contribute to that. Either the right way is to present a broad report on religious policy as a whole, or to facilitate that we have these debates in other contexts, I would like to be a minister of the Church as well as a Council of State responsible for the various religious communities – and the Minister of Freedom of Speech, I would like to stress – to contribute to it. It's one of our most important debates. Last year we had a year of diversity, which was also very much about this. How do we go from being a homogeneous to becoming a multicultural and multi-religious society, how do we exploit the good things about it, and how do we deal with the problems that are also created by it? This is a very important debate, which, of course, also belongs in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e462	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e465	Let me first make a comment to the representative Skei Grande and Left, because I think it is very interesting that the Left now wants a wide-ranging debate on religion, tradition and what must be attached to it. But at the same time they have a party leader who will exclude Norway's second largest party from participating in this debate. I think that's a little bit parochial, to put it right. But my question to the Council of State is: if you were to give such a message, what challenges do the Council of State see for example. in relation to a consultation process, and what challenges does the Council of State see in relation to the adoption of concepts and content of different religions in this context and what are the distinctions between traditions and religious practices? It could have been interesting with such a debate, of course, but I'm not so sure that it would create some harmony or some better dialogue if the Norwegian Storing were to define the different concepts and the content of the different religions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e472	The main focus of the debates in the United Kingdom is to lay the foundations for the laws, budgetary decisions, actions and strategies of the public sector. To reduce the size of a clean discussion club, I think there are few who are interested in it, so it must be linked to that kind of action. But we see how tolerance, respect and also our ability to set some common standards in a society are constantly being challenged by the fact that we have become a more multicultural and multi-religious society. We meet this in the field after field. Now we have had some topical issues in the last month, which are partly quite specific things – if you are not to use hijab in the police, you are not to have a blasphemy paragraph, etc. – but, of course, based on a basic understanding of how to deal with a multicultural and multi-religious society. That debate should also be taken in the Stortinget, I agree with Skei Grande in, and I also believe that her party leader believes that Per Sandberg's party leader should be allowed to participate in that debate, but perhaps in a way that builds a bridge, instead of creating new conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e477	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e480	The demand for a clearer religious policy has been raised from several teams, at the latest yesterday by Erling Rimehaug in a commentary article in Our Country. It happens at a time when many feel that religious practices and religious freedom are more urgent. We experience debates about whether or not the Salvation Army should receive state aid or not based on its political opinions, and we experience a discussion about the Blasphemy paragraph, which the Government did not handle in a particularly elegant way, a rather hiabb-debt. The point is that many are of the opinion that it is now more difficult to have and exercise religious freedom, because it is a strong desire for the state to govern the content of religions. The councils themselves come from a party where there has been tradition. Does the Council of State agree that there must be respect for religious communities as such, and that religious policy is not about religious governance but about religious freedom policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e488	I think it is very difficult to find some sort of empirical basis to claim that freedom of religion in Norway is being restricted. On the contrary, Norway is one of the countries with absolute freedom of religion. What we're doing in the big church deal, like the representative Eriksen Soreide and I worked with him last year, is, of course, acting. on looser ties between the State and the Norwegian Church and greater opportunities for the Norwegian Church to, for example: to appoint their own religious leaders. We have a unique funding system in Norway, where not only the Norwegian Church, but all other religious and life views are paid by the Norwegian State for its activities. There are not very many countries where you find a similar system. The religious communities are also covered by Norwegian laws and regulations. You cannot break the Accounting Act, for example: even if you belong to a religious community. However, where Norwegian laws and rules break faith, or principles within religious communities, we need to find practical solutions. Freedom of faith is very, very important, but some other laws are also important in Norwegian society, and some common rules are to be adopted. I am absolutely sure that Eriksen Soreide also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e493	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e496	In that comment to Erling Rimehaug, it says that the government has been driven ‘on a case-by-case basis, and from loss to loss, it serves only those who want to fish in the murky water that occurs after such a stir as we have now had.’ [[...]] And we see that the largest opposition party in Stortinget is clear both with fishing rods and bait to pick up the catch. The government has stumbled. But I think the general question here is whether the solution should be that religion should remain in the private and enclosed space, or whether we must dare to participate in the debates and recognise the place religion actually has for us as a society and not least for the actions and expressions of individuals. Is it so that the Government agrees that we need more space for religion in public space, or do you agree with the Danish Prime Minister, who believes that religion should not have room in public space?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e508	Me and the Government are strong followers of freedom of worship and religion. We are strong supporters of getting organized and having their ceremonies and meeting freely, and we are also supporters of communicating their message into the public space. But this is not something that the state can rule. We can organise, for example: Yesterday we adopted the NRK poster, which says that the NRK will communicate Norway’s religious and cultural heritage and also the diversity of religions that exist in Norway, but otherwise it is up to the different religious communities to market their activities and engage in munitions activities – which I am sure the representative Dagrun Eriksen fully agrees with me. We cannot take over from the state, but we can facilitate, primarily through good funding and by providing a high level of freedom of expression and the ability to reach out with their message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e513	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e518	There are no changes to the configured question list. We then go to the first question, which is from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport. - The council has not yet arrived, so we'll wait a minute. – Then the Council of State is present, and we start the ordinary Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e530	I must first be allowed to say that now it's a draw! Last time I was late. The question is as follows: ‘The planning and external quality assurance of large transport projects has evolved into a very time consuming process in which normal time use is estimated to be around. Nine years. And then the actual construction time comes. When the plan preparation, by which I mean a ‘reserve’ of planned projects, is small in addition, time use will have an extra great delay effect when the level of funding is increased. What will the Council of State do to reduce the time spent planning large-scale transport projects and increase planning?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e546	I'm sorry that I was a little late. As the representative of Sortevik points out, the planning processes for the transport project are often time-consuming and complicated, as they often have considerable consequences for people both locally and regionally. The planning processes of major road and rail projects must follow the planning and building laws of their various facilities for managing the municipal plan and the regulatory plan. The Code of Planning shall ensure that all recordings and objections and all misstatements are properly handled, the Code of Conduct shall ensure the rights of all persons who have to dispose of land and rights, and the procurement legislation shall ensure fair competition. However, there is a potential for streamlining in terms of reduced time use without compromising quality. I attach great importance to this potential being taken out, and I refer to their efforts to contribute to this. The state road system is focused on improving the efficiency of planning. I'll show you. for the work of the department, to provide better clarifications on where and when detailed planning for the implementation of concrete projects is being carried out. Examples of this are the department’s work on concept-valuation services for rural and urban road sections, the work on route plans for the main road network and the work on national transport plans, where corridor arrangements and dedicated urban transport services have been carried out. Proper overarching clarifications provide a better basis for prioritising its efforts in the detailed planning of implementation measures. In practice, it is not easy to build a ‘planning reserve’ for the current case, with a large increase in activity and funding scope. Regulatory plans, which provide the legal basis for implementation, become obsolete. This is related to changing the plans over time through new requirements in society and new legislation. Examples of this in recent years are new road standards with stricter safety requirements. The state road system is also focused on processes for the development of existing roads. This will focus on developing strategies for action on longer distances along existing roads with different levels of effort. These may be measures that do not require plan clearance or where there are sufficient simple regulatory planning processes that take between 1 and 1 and 1/2 years. Otherwise, I will refer you to the work of the State Road Administration to involve users, landowners, interest groups and other governance powers in both summary planning and detailed planning. There are many examples of good-performing planning processes, and the department carries out extensive development and training work to improve communication in planning. These are measures that will make planning more effective both in terms of time use and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e561	I thank you for your answer. It may seem like we're over planning in Norway, that we're not just building roads as if we were a poor post-war country, but that we actually have a plan that reminds us of an old-fashioned Soviet state. We have three heavy phase plans before it's all about putting a machine to work. If there is political disagreement about the choice of trajectory related to environmental considerations, it may come to the fore. There may be several times more than normal time use over the nine years indicated. In the worst case, it can go significantly further. Yesterday we got a final clarification about E6 along Mjösa. It's a pleasure, but at the same time it's an example of how delaying such a long planning process can be when there's political disagreement. Will the Council of State facilitate the use of state regulatory plans as one of several measures to speed up planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e570	When it is to be built e.g. a new road, it is important that those who are landowners along the road are taken seriously. It is important that the environmental disadvantages that the road can cause to the community are taken seriously, and it is important that local authorities take part in and make their decisions without being pressured by a centralised state where, as they sit in the state apparatus, they may occasionally have insufficient knowledge of local conditions. Therefore, it is important to keep track of the planning procedures that we have. But it has also been, in my time as Minister of Transport, a government plan as a tool where there is no intention of reaching agreement locally. There must be a limit to how long things can go on due to local inconsistency, before one happens, when there are important societal interests that need to be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e575	Thank you again. If the average time use now is nine years – and it is too long – what is the aim of the Council of State? As far as the plan reserve is concerned, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport said last October that we are going to build a railway and repair a road to an extent that the nation has never seen. However, in the context of the package of measures presented by the Government, we have heard reactions such as ‘more money and few projects’, ‘having money and missing plans’. After more than three years of red-green government, there is a lack of plans to implement road projects when there is fresh money, almost flat. It testifies to a government that may not entirely believe in its own will, ability and capacity to obtain the necessary extra funds. What will the Council of State do to increase planning so that increased financial frameworks can also speed up projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e586	First, when it comes to the package of measures: they are about completed planning smaller projects that can give a lot of work to many. It was never about one starting the big projects. We have advanced some major projects, but it was a package that focused primarily on employment. It was the government's focus, and there's the government's focus in that package. And then it is clear that many good road and rail projects – not least on the maintenance side, which have been a neglected area for a long time – are important. This government has made a shift in its trade policy. This is not how we came in after the Bondevik II government – which the Progress Party supports wholeheartedly – that there was a lot of planned projects, nor is it so that when we add a lot of money, including for planning, we can only turn on a switch and the projects are ready. It takes some time to digest such a change of pace, but when we present a national transport plan, we shall see that the rate should be increased and so should the planning capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e596	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the Glåmdalen newspaper of 19 February 2009, we can read: ‘Rv 2 war over’ The Council of State can now confirm that she will do everything in her power to ensure that we finally get ahead of work on Rv. The 2-trace in Hedmark?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e603	The question about the choice of new rvs. 2 through the municipality of South Odal has been conflicted throughout the planning of the project. The conflict ends, among other things differing views on the extent to which soil protection is to be taken into account for the choice of trasé. I am aware that there is a finally approved regulatory plan for this section. As I also briefed the Stortinget on in the 2009 state budget, I will present my own proposal on the development and financing of RV. 2 on the route Kongswinger–Slomarka when there are sufficient clarifications. In particular, external quality assurance (KS2) shall be carried out from the estimate of costs. The project will be referred to in the forthcoming National Transport Plan Map Communication for 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e612	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which maybe didn't give me that much answer. It is clear that the time is running out, and in the previous question it was also a matter of such processes taking a long time. People are now starting to become very impatient after getting a clarification on this important road. This is about both housing and industrial policy, it's about a lot of different things. This road is also a major transit tower for, among other things. goods coming from abroad. So there is a great need and a strong desire – I stress a strong desire – for this to be clarified as soon as possible. That is why I want the Council of State at least to clarify something more than she did, when, how and at what cost this road is now finally to be completed – because it has to be completed soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e619	I've done the right thing for the process as he goes. External quality assurance shall be carried out. There is a system that the previous government has set up, and that is now fully operational. It is a good instrument to ensure high-quality road projects. But it takes more time, because it is for external consultants to go through the entire project again. However, I hope that we will get a case for Stortinget as soon as possible and, as I said, we will come back to this matter in the Storing Message of the National Transport Plan, which we will be submitting in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e626	I thank the Council of State for the answer – which was an answer. You might want to think a little bit more about what you're going to think about developing tribal pathways. When it's a national task to build a tribal road, the state should also have the authority to decide where to go. The reason why I'm saying this is that things take a very long time. We must take care of our democracy, we must hear those who need to be heard. But then, things take a very long time. It costs money, it can cost human life, and it doesn't create any living lust when you live in such a great uncertainty as the choice of vitrace, in this case rv. 2, for those who live along it, for those who walk along it, for those who live off the road, and for those who live on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e633	Yes, democracy takes time. Democratic processes take time, democratic processes cost money. But I haven't seen an alternative to the good democracy that we have in Norway, which I could love, and I hope the representative doesn't want another regime either. It may not cause bulging that things take time, but it also does not cause bulging to become centralized and to feel discouraged by the fact that decisions are taken without that decision being taken, making it possible to try and say something. That's what's happened in this case. Basic owners have tried their case for the judicial system and have not reached it, but have at least had the possibility of what is a good legal state worthy of trial: trying it out. I don't want to criticize it. On the contrary, it is an important part of both the judicial system and our democracy that everyone should be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e643	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The planning of the development of Fornebu has provided that a path should be the support of the collective offer. Former Minister of Transport, Terje Moe Gustavsen, promised to allocate 600 million. kr for such a solution. Different path solutions have been explored, including an automatic path. The Ministry of the Environment put an end to the automatic path by setting its foot down for a connection to Lysaker station. Will the Council of State now work actively to establish a path solution for Fornebu?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e652	The development and operation of the collective system at Fornebu is a municipal responsibility. It is Akershus County Municipality in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo to finance, build and operate the system. The town council is planning power. It was Akershus County Council which decided on 10 May 2007 that Fornebubana should be established as a regional urban railway solution. The decision no longer constitutes a collective solution for Fornebu. On that basis, the Ministry of the Environment has converted the municipality of Bærum’s plan decision to facilitate the provision of an automatic train at Lysaker station. During the whole process with Fornebubana, I have kept to the promise of a government contribution to the Ministry of Transport of 600 million. kr. According to St. prp. No 1 for 2001–02, these State resources for collective treatment of Fornebu can be used through the alternative use of national pesticides. The scheme is part of the budget frame for the whole national road network. In the light of the management reform, it will assume the economic obligations of the national road network from 1 January 2010. The responsibility to comply with the promise of State resources for collective treatment of Fornebu is thus transferred to the district of Akershus, in line with other commitments and state obligations that have been prioritised within the state framework of national highways. Work is well under way on the urban trajectory between Skøyen and Fornebu. This work is carried out in collaboration between Akershu County Municipality, the State Road Administration, the Swedish Railway Agency, the Municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Bærum. There is an agreement between Akershus County Municipality and the Municipality of Oslo that Ruter AS should be responsible for the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e663	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that the state has a responsibility for the development of Fornebu. The State has pushed up the rate of utilization of housing and jobs at Fornebu in Bærum and has made demands for public transport. In response to me on 11 October 2006, the Council of State said: ‘I realize that one in this case needs some time locally to do a distribution work, which is supposed to be completed in January 2007.’ It's now over two years ago. What does the Council of State think about this, and what dialogue does the Council of State have with the Government Party locally, which has definitely delayed this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e675	It is true that the country has focused on the high use of the Fornebu area. The main argument has been our coordination of land and transport planning, sustainable development and environmental conditions, as stated. the national policy guidelines on co-ordination of land and transport planning in 1993. It has been important for us to follow this up with the municipality and county council, but the responsibility for this path is clear to me. I have never felt that one from Akershus County has neglected the responsibility they have with Oslo Municipality to build the track. The decision I referred to on 10 May 2007 was made by the county on a free basis where one saw that an urban railway solution would be more likely. Of course, the State must follow up what it has promised in this matter. We took an active part in the planning work through the State Roads and the Railway Agency, which also means a considerable use of resources by the state – and that should be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e682	I thank you again for the answer. There are several reasons why a path solution for Fornebu is becoming more important than ever. An example is the AC/DC concert at Telenor Arena which clearly revealed that E18 is not at all dimensioned for bus solutions for Fornebu. In addition, StatoilHydro is now to be established on Fornebu. That is why I ask again whether the Council of State can be an active driver, because there is no doubt that it is the government's own parties who have trained this matter in the county council. My question was therefore whether the Council of State could be an active driver in order to get a track solution as quickly as possible. For the state has a responsibility, and then you can't constantly push it over to local authorities, when government parties also train it locally. Finally, the Council of State can confirm that the 600 million. kr, which was promised in 2001, is price adjusted to today's dollar value?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e691	When it comes to a quick and good solution, both the municipality of Akershus and the municipality of Oslo have had a constructive and positive attitude to it. There is no doubt that the responsibility for creating a plan for this work lies there. I record that the representative Tenden repeats that the state has a responsibility. Yes, the state has taken that responsibility both by making funds available – what I have said we should continue, even if one has changed the solution when it comes to the urban route, to another system – and not least by making competence available through our budgets. But again, the state's responsibility is limited there. It is Akershus and Oslo who must take the responsibility that lies, also through the local processes. Local inconsistency is known to occur from time to time, cf. the previous question. But then we also have to take local responsibility for resolving this inconsistency and come to a positive solution locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e703	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The debate on one Agder tribe has been going on for several decades in the South without results. The issue of county concentration has encountered considerable resistance among the inhabitants of East Agder. The matter is now facing final political clarification in the two states. Sees the Council of State more beneficial than the disadvantages of such an association, and the Council of State is in favour of the two states retaining the same number of large-scale representatives as they are today from both countries also at a possible association, i.e. 10 additional mandates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e712	I'm not sure what Andersen thinks with results. If one with zero results means that the Agder states have not merged, that is true. The county councils have asked me to attend a meeting to discuss various aspects of the association issue, and I have invited both counties to a discussion on this at the beginning of March. I look forward to this meeting with interest. Where the role of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs in mergers of county councils is involved, the department is responsible for the merger process, according to the law of division, after a positive decision has been taken by the county councils. Then it is that Stortinget has agreed that county and municipal associations should be on a voluntary basis. This means that it is up to the county itself to assess — and, if necessary, to decide — whether they see more advantages than disadvantages in a merger. I just want to say that a merged Agder won't be a very large group. The total population is today about 275,000, not so different from the national average. The area will be about 16 500 square kilometers. When the number of large-scale representatives in the Agder counties is involved if the county councils go in order to prepare an association, one in the fall’s decision will have the same electoral division and the same number of anti-aliasing mandates as today. In any case, the Agder County will have the same number of large-scale representatives for the forthcoming parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e721	Thank you for that – I just get to take that answer to notice. I'll take a closer look at that. But I'd like to follow up, because this is a very topical question in the South. If there is political support in the respective counties in order to move forward in this process of union, which is expected to be clarified during April, does the Council support the view that a referendum should also be held on the question of the association of these two states, in line with what her own party in East-Agder has voted for? And shouldn't a result of such a referendum then be respected both by – of course – the county councils and also by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e728	Let me tell you about genocide: such practices are in Norway in that area, they are advisory. It is also the case that in the big news of a strong local democracy, which is now being treated in the Stortinget, we formally facilitate the legalisation of local populations. We propose it – and in addition, the production of statistics. But if there's going to be a referendum in Agder County or not, it's up to the county to decide. Then I can add that I have also registered, as the representative Andersen, that here there is a debate in different parties, and here there is also different views – as far as I understand – in the various parties, both in East-Agder and in West-Agder, and also internally among local voices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e735	I notice the Council's response with a certain interest. But I also want to challenge the Council of States: let's imagine that there will be a no from East-Agder County about going further in the process of association during this spring. Does not the Council of State feel that the matter of County Association in Agder in that case has been put to death? It is well – at least as I judge it – unmistakable that the state and the Storting should go in and use coercion to merge the two states if there is no political majority in the East-Agder district for such an association.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e740	I think in my first answer, I did both clean and clear things for the process, i.e. the initiative is taken locally, the decision is made locally, before the department comes in at all. But I can tell you from my side that I think it's taking an interesting initiative. I'm looking forward to the information I'm about to get at the meeting that's been set up. So I can also use the opportunity to say to this with electoral districts that it is laid down in the Constitution that we should have 19 electoral districts, and it requires constitutional changes to change that number. There's something that takes time. So if there were any changes to the Constitution, this could be put into effect first at the 2017 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e751	‘The most concrete result of the so-called regional reform, the transfer of responsibility for the majority of the national roads to the states, is now also in the process of slipping into the sand. The task is transferred without financial compensation, employees and with continued strong government governance. In what areas does the Council of State consider that the reform has transferred decisions of major importance to local democracy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e758	The processes of administrative reform have been demanding. I've never hidden that on. I am content with what is now in the reform. I believe that the reform will bring growth-driven regions based on regional advantage. The reform provides opportunities for good regional development under regional governance. The county councils are given an enhanced development role in their state. They have new tools and tasks linked to the design and implementation of regional and national industrial policies, including: through 49 pst. ownership of Innovation Norway. The establishment of regional research funds with DKK 6 billion in capital is a major investment by the Government. It is an innovation designed to ensure regional knowledge development and better interaction with right educational institutions. The county councils are also responsible for vocational training, the national road network or the associated ferries, regional water management, parts of the aquaculture and marine resources management, cultural tasks – and, besides, tasks that currently lie with the county in the environmental and agricultural fields. The counties are strengthened. This allows them to see several different sectors as a whole within each region. Regional interaction between the individual county council and other public and private actors — and with other county councils — will of course be necessary to achieve good results. So for the transportation tasks: it's not right for the county to take over the main part of the road network without compensation. When the State assigns tasks to municipalities or county municipalities, the State shall follow up in budgetary context so as to cover the additional expenditure incurred by the sector as a result of new tasks. The government has put the principle that resources should follow tasks, underpinning the administrative reform. Proposals for a comprehensive financial framework for the reform will be included in the municipal proposal in May. From my point of view, it is important that this is a scheme that enables the county councils to discharge their responsibilities after 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e775	With that answer, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs must feel that the county councils and their own state politicians have misunderstood the Government's proposal on how and under what conditions this should be done in total. Their description of the Government’s proposal for transfers of national roads is as follows: ‘Missile, unacceptable, disclaimer, unlawful’. Local authorities' own organisation, KS, writes: «The proposals of the Ministry of Transport express clear distrust of the county councils as a transport authority.» [[...]] If the Council of State has the right to fully compensate for this — including the enormous delays in maintaining and rehabilitating national roads — it will be completely unnecessary to do what the Minister of Transport has proposed, namely to put Section 7 of the Road Code aside from these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e785	I understand that these are headlines that Bent Höie really appreciated. We know the position of the Right on the new governance reform. But let me underline: the headlines have now come in response to a hearing note that was due on February 12. I stand by what I have said before and as I have underlined here today: it will come, as a warning in the hearing note, a closer clarification, first in the national transport plan when it is presented, and then a final financial arrangement in the municipal bill for 2010. Now the representative Bent Höie used the expression ‘full out’. I can't use that at this point. That's because we know that there's a lot of lag here. It's going to be something to count it in and compensate for it in one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e792	The sport in which this government has excelled is, of course, political magic. The biggest gastric plaque is the regional reform. It also shows the management of the tasks transferred to the counties. The whole reform shows a total lack of confidence in local democracy and in local decisions and assessments. A good example is the Ministry of Administration's letter to the counties concerning transfers of game species and inland fish to the counties. Let me quote: ‘Canada goose and stripe goose are transferred. Grey goose and shortbow are not transferred’. Further: «Shrimps: FK is transferred from hares, herrings, beavers, beavers and bismam. Wild rabbit is a foreign species and the result of illegal releases. It requires specific follow-up and is not transferred.» The boundaries of this government's trust in county municipalities are in the management of wild rabbits. The county authorities do not have sufficient confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e809	I have to say, there was an interesting prose Bent Höie referred to. What matters to his main question, if the management reform means a strengthened local democracy, I still think of something far more than the characteristics of a sports section. For Right's alternative here – whether we go to Rogaland, to Northland or to Hedmark – is a development where the respective Stavanger, Bodø or Hamar are to be the regional developer. And then my claim, which I think I have good evidence of, is that it means a completely differently strengthened local democracy to let the populace from a whole state take responsibility for both regional development and many other tasks pertaining to this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e817	‘In the debate on the Climate Change Act, it is claimed that a tight quota allocation to Norwegian industry is important to cut CO2 emissions. Similarly, it is claimed that several free allowances for industry provide less CO2 cut. At the same time, the Government chooses to sell all allowances that are not allocated to Norwegian operators, thereby maintaining the number of emission rights in the CO2 allowances system. How does the Government’s ‘tighter’ approach result in greater CO2 cut than the option, where is the Norwegian industry allocated more CO2 quotas and thus at EU level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e839	I am concerned that the quota system should give businesses a clear signal that releasing greenhouse gases means a cost and a disadvantage for all of us. A good allowance system does so in two ways: first, by setting a total cap that is so low that it results in companies having to reduce their emissions; and secondly, by the fact that the individual company that pollutes is itself paying for the allowances it needs to respond to its emissions. The total quantity of allowances in an allowance system determines the amount of emissions within that system. For an allowance system to reduce emissions, i.e.: be tight, the total quantity of allowances in the system must be lower than that which the companies would have released if they were not regulated by the quota obligation. The total emissions within the system are reduced to a level corresponding to the total quantity of allowances. Norway has a tighter quota system than the other European countries measured against emissions in 2005. We are thus contributing to the reduction of emissions from the enterprises included in the European ETS by the Government's decision to set a significantly lower quota quantity than the Norwegian enterprise is expected to need in the period 2008-2012. The sale or allocation of allowances free of charge will in the short term not affect the emissions of existing activities. However, the allocation of free allowances may affect investment decisions relating to extensions or the establishment of new activities. The greater the proportion of free allowances allocated to the enterprise as a result of the investment will be in employment. There can then be a tendency to invest in polluting activities at the expense of other activities. In the long term, an industrial structure with higher emissions than would otherwise be achieved, which is more emission-intensive than what is socio-economically sensible. This is some of the reasons why the Government did not wish to establish a general allowance reserve for the allocation of free allowances to new and extended establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e848	I think this answer is evidence that the government is looking at areas in a sector rather than looking at total emissions. When the Government in the allowance proposition, which was dealt with in the Storting a few weeks ago, justifies having a tighter allocation, it was with the argument that it would give more cut than anyone else would get. But when one still sells the profit quotas, one keeps the total amount of emissions. So the council obviously believes that having a tight allocation gives an incentive for the industry to cut emissions faster than it would otherwise do. But then the Council of State must respond to how industry can afford to cut emissions, when, at the same time as obtaining the minimum possible allocation of free allowances, the capital needed to invest in new technology is also deducted, and the Government's climate allowance law states that those already established – that is, the old industry – receive a greater share of free allowances than new industry, which does not have CO2-free technology today, but which can still invest in technology with lower emissions than established industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e858	I feel that the answer to the question that Solvik-Olsen is now repeating, was also given in the previous answer, namely that it is the total quantity of allowances that determines the amount of emissions. Therefore, it contributes to Norway’s tight quota regime, i.e. a small quantity of allowances compared to emissions to reduce emissions. However, the question of whether to distribute free allowances or to buy allowances is a question of contributing to the incentive for long-term investment decisions in enterprises to invest in smaller emissions. We've had a lot of polemics about this in Stortinget – and I'm kind of repeating the challenge back to the Progress Party: why should it be that most people and the non-emission industries have to pay for the emissions to the part of the industry that has it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e863	First of all, the Council of State is turning this on its head. For the state, it has not paid one krona for the allowances initially allocated to you by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Ergo: By allocating more CO2 allowances free of charge to industry, that country does not initially cost one krona. But of course, the lost income is that one can't do what the Government wants today, that is, sell the profits on the free market and make money on it. But the point here is the same as the NHO and the Nature Conservation Association have said – that is, a broad movement of different approaches, but which are all critical of the Government’s approach, where one claims that a tight allocation is good for the environment. But as long as one sells the allowances you have left over, one thus maintains the total emission framework in the world. It is only the difference that Norwegian industry is allowed to reduce its competitiveness and its ability to finance actions as well, while the Government is increasing its revenues. So there's an equal amount of CO2 emissions under both types of systems. But the difference is that the government has chosen to fill the treasury rather than enable the industry to have competitiveness. [[The President cut off]] That's what the Council of State has to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e874	Of course, whether you should delete allowances or sell them is an open question for debate and we can continue the debate around. The crucial factor for total emissions is, as I have repeated many times, the total quantity of allowances – otherwise it is also repeated by the queryer. It is the total quantity of allowances that determines the level of emissions. But we want to give incentives towards the conversion of industry to the less polluting industry. It is also the case that the polluter pays principle is something that is normally hailed by the whole Storting – I am not aware that the Progress Party also shares it, but I almost assume so. And on the basis of a polluter pays principle, it is not unreasonable for the companies that have the emissions to pay for them. However, it is clear that the large, long-term debate on this issue will come when Norway is to adapt to the EU's quota system, which will apply from after 2012. Of course, we have to do this in good time before that. Then we will probably have to look at the sector by sector – where it is natural with free quotas and where payments for allowances are natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e886	‘The municipalities send claims to relatives for payment in connection with the disappearance of persons who have been in hospital/housing. The additional requirement is due to changes in income that have not been included in current payments. The deadline for the change of residence after someone has gone away is six months. Many people react strongly when as much as two years after the person has disappeared, they get a claim from the municipalities. Will the Council of State set time limits for the municipality to wait no longer than until the residence is settled, with extra requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e893	According to the 1995 remuneration regulation, compensation for residence in an institution, including nursing homes, is to be calculated on the basis of the income of the resident. Income for the year is the income on the basis of pensions, other current social security benefits, labour income, entrepreneurial income, rental income, interest and other income on wealth — net of taxes and debt interest. This means that final remuneration cannot be determined before the tax settlement is available, in practice not earlier than June of the following year. It follows from the provision that if the tax settlement of the previous year shows that it has not been properly calculated, a recalculation shall be made. This is central — not least for the sake of those who have paid an excessive remuneration. As regards the six-month period for settlement of the stay and the rules relating to tax settlement, this falls outside my remit. On the basis of today's income-based remuneration calculation, it will not be possible for municipalities to make such a redeployment within six months of any loss. The municipality must wait for the final tax settlement before the settlement can take place. As I explained in the Questionnaire on 21 January of this year, the Department has started work to simplify today's remuneration regulations. In this context, we will also look into the system of post-settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e902	Unfortunately, there is not so much new news from the Council of State either. I am aware that the question I asked the Council of State in the past was one of the same. Nevertheless, I would like to challenge the Council of State further when he says that you have to wait until June of the following year. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate for the municipality to wait another six months after the tax settlement has been completed before sending the claim to the deceased? Because that's what you're seeing right now. In addition to waiting for the tax settlement to come in June of the following year, it is also a long time to wait before sending claims to relatives and survivors. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable for municipalities to be able to claim this remuneration for as long as all normal time limits should have expired?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e909	Now I am a little uncertain about what the questioner is looking for. He seems to agree that it may actually be justified not to be able to finally calculate this within the six-month period associated with the settlement of the dwelling. It seems that he now recognises, as a result of the lack of time for some of these. Then there's a new discussion, whether the municipality should have a new deadline after the tax settlement is available. I'm definitely willing to assess that when we're working on the remuneration code. But I also think there are other types of simplification that will be important. For example, there is no doubt that the concept of income as set out in the remuneration regulation is quite complicated. As the world is now, I have no opportunity to see anything but that it could take longer than six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e918	Firstly, I do not agree with the Council of State that it is okay to wait until the final tax settlement comes, because here there are actually opportunities. If you want to look at a simplification and want to do something about bureaucracy, you have the full opportunity to make sure you get it settled. It's often done as well. Calculations are also made for tax purposes. The problem here is that municipalities spend a long time dealing with these claims, in addition to the fact that some municipalities do not even state on what basis they have come up with the requirements they send. I think it's totally unacceptable. It should be a prerequisite for not being able to wait for almost two years – the municipality actually has the opportunity to wait for almost two years before sending claims to the deceased and relatives. For many it is a strong feeling to get this type of requirement afterwards. When everything is done and you start moving on, you get a new claim from the municipality, which takes a long time to process and to implement this. I hope that the Council of State will take initiatives towards the Minister of Finance, if necessary, so that this can be done within the time limit set for settling the dispute. It is possible – if you want to look at it – to have regulations that ensure that you follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e927	The President will ask the representatives to stick to the speaking time set.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e930	I have previously invited the representative of Hoksrud to make a proposal for this simplified regulation to alleviate all these problems. I did so on 21 January, and at least so far such a proposal shines with its absence. So I want to repeat that if this is so simple – and we're working on the regulation – it's just for the Progress Party to make a proposal, we're going to look very carefully at it. We think it's some complicated factors, but I agree with Hoksrud that it's a goal to make this work better. That's why we're working on the regulation and simplification, and as I said, we're willing to look at all the good suggestions. But it obviously can't be that simple, because, at least, we haven't got any suggestions from the Progress Party for simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e940	‘The resources of the regional health establishments resulting from the package of measures shall also go to non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health establishments and which are integrated into the ‘provide’ responsibility. Despite this, not all this will involve, such funds will be allocated, including Modum Bad, Oslo Hospital and the City Council Clinic. Will the Council of State ensure that regional health establishments allocate funds to the non-profit institutions which have agreements with regional health establishments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e947	Government employment package, i.e. St. pp. No 37 for 2008-2009, on changes in the 2009 government budget with measures for work, was adopted in the Stortinget earlier this month. The decision provides for a one-off grant of DKK 1 billion to regional health enterprises. The objective of the allocation is increased employment and the means are to be used to upgrade and maintain existing building mass. Furthermore, it has been considered that the boards of regional health establishments are the ones to give priority to measures based on the criteria of high employment, geographical distribution and rapid start-up. At business meetings in January, regional health boards were entrusted with the task of drawing up priority lists — on the basis of the above criteria. The list of measures shall be approved by my department before the funds are disbursed. In the case of private non-profit hospitals, I would like to point out that in the memorandum of understanding, the appropriations for maintenance and upgrading are to be used for state-owned buildings, including hospitals and university and higher education buildings. Nevertheless, I have given signals that this can be extended to measures in private non-profit hospitals. By private non-profit hospitals, I mean institutions that are fully integrated into the public specialist health service and that have operational agreements with regional health companies. Tomorrow, Health South-East has the RHF Governing Board meeting where the regional action list is to be discussed. I am aware that the region has assessed and prioritised measures in private non-profit hospitals with which they have operating agreements. This concerns the Diakon home Hospital, the Lovisenberg Hospital, Martina Hansen Hospital, the Bethany Hospital and the Revmatism Hospital at Lillehammer. Health South-East has not assessed measures taken by the institutions with which they have purchase agreements, such as Modum Bad, Oslo Hospital and the Borgestadklinikken. I would like to remind you that the objective of the funds from the action package is increased employment. Nor is it the case that all public hospital buildings will receive funds for maintenance and upgrading. Regional health businesses have been given a clear responsibility to identify measures that can provide jobs for people. As I understand it, Health South-East has estimated that the measures they have prioritised in their 540 million package of measures. kr, will give an employment effect of about 670 years, including the Norwegian part of material supplies. In my opinion, this seems to be in line with the objectives of St.prp. No Thirty-seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e965	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I feel that the Council of State believes that these institutions, which I am asking for, do not actually come under this scheme. Then I would like to ask about similar institutions in Health West. This applies, inter alia, to: The Bergensklinikken Foundation. I know that the Council of State has also received an enquiry from these, because they are thus a private non-profit institution within the drug field. All of their clinical activities are based on agreements with the regional health company, so they are fully integrated into Health West’s care for responsibilities. Then it happens that Health West calls seven parties to the agreement to make proposals, but they don't come along, so it's kind of not equivalent – by inviting someone and not everyone. Does the Council of State consider this to be a proper procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e974	I think it would be wrong for me to go in and express myself like this on the stand about the assessments that Health West has made, and that I have no idea at all. So I just have to get back to that. But the guiding principle, which has also been notified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, has been that the institutions that are fully integrated and with which we have operational arrangements should be included. That's because it would have been wrong, for example. here in Oslo, if not two important hospitals such as the Diakon home Hospital and the Lovisenberg Hospital were to come under this scheme, because they are part of the hospital service in Oslo and are fully integrated. But I've set the limit on purchase agreements. Should we have opened up to it, it is clear that then there would be a lot of institutions that had come along. Then the pace had been inhibited, and the most important thing here is the rapid effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e981	At any rate, I would like the Council of State to look into whether the Bergensklinik Foundation, which is fully integrated, with agreements, will be able to enter into the scheme. I know, as I said, that the Council of State has got a question about it. I also know that the Council of State is concerned about the situation of our private, non-profit institutions. Many of them have come into disrepute, because they have received fewer places after tenders, some have also been closed, both within the drug field and within the psychiatry. I know that the Council of State is very concerned and concerned about some of our ideal institutions around the country. This applies to several places. What is very positive, however, is that the Council of State in December suggested that he would continue to look at the possibilities for, among other things. to find a solution to these pension costs for 2007. As I don't get any further on the questions about the crisis package, it might be nice to hear if the Council of State has found a solution to this, and if he can say anything about where that matter is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e990	That's where it stood in December – so we're working on it. It is a budgetary matter, and I believe that the representative Mr Davøy knows just as well as I do that the questioning right might not be the right area for budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e998	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The undersigned indicates that the issue of Corridor Asians in Norwegian hospitals seems to persist and reinforce despite repeated promises by the Council of State. As I see it, the interaction reform is not responding well enough for the acute situation. What concrete immediate action will the Council of State take to address this unworthy situation in Norwegian hospitals and will the Council of State take an initiative towards regional health companies to ensure adequate medical bed beds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1007	This is a big and important question. Being sick and being placed in the corridor is often poor patient treatment, and there is poor use of resources. Although I believe the representative Nesvik and I can agree that for the patient, the option can often be even worse: not to get treatment at all, however, Corridor Asians are an expression that the service is not well organized, and that the interaction between hospital and community health services and indoor hospital fails. This is a complex issue that requires long-term efforts in many areas. Let me use some examples. In Health South-East they have been systematically working. They've tried to figure out why patients stay in the corridor, and they've looked at possible solutions by studying good practice. Now they can show good results at Sørlanden Hospital, at the Inland Hospital and at the Asker Hospital and Bærum Hospital. I want to mention two important reasons why we have corridor Asiatic Asia in the Intrinsic Departments. First, there are many patients admitted to hospitals that could have been treated in the municipality. Secondly, many patients remain in hospital even after they have completed treatment. They are too sick to come home, but there is no suitable offer for them in the municipality. If we are to get good and lasting solutions, we must ensure that patients receive proper treatment at the right level. Today, elderly people are often hospitalized when they become acutely ill. However, many of them could have received an equally good – often better – offer in the municipality, if it had been facilitated. Some places in the country have observation beds at district medical centres and hospitals for patients who need an offer before, instead of or after a hospital stay, so that they can manage at home. The examples here I think Nesvik knows well: Fozen, Søbstad, Ål, Stjørdal etc. But there is a great lack of such offers. Therefore, beds and corridors are filled by patients who could have received a much better offer in the home municipality. Another measure that may address the problem of Corridor Asians is to make better use of the total hospital bed capacity than we do today. Many hospitals have a spare capacity that can be exploited by redistribution of bed places as needed, and by the cooperation and flexibility of departments in pressurised situations. There is also much to be gained by establishing good patient flow systems, e.g. patients may attend the hospital on the day of the intervention. At the Hospital Asker and Bærum, long - term systematic work has resulted in fewer corridors. They have developed a good patient flow by offering day care, they have medical short-term records, patients are admitted on the same day they are to be operated, there are several outpatient teams, the departments are flexible, and the hospital has good cooperation with the municipality. Ullevål University Hospitals have focused on putting good skills into reception, working closely with the districts, and the hospital staff can call the hospital and get advice before the residents are admitted. That way, you avoid a lot of posts. When the number of ready-to-print patients is low, they do not have corridor Asians, says the management of Ullevål University Hospital. Unfortunately, there is no rapid response that will provide lasting solutions to the problem of Corridor Asians. Studies show that there is no direct link between the proportion of Corridor Asians and the number of inner medical beds — relative to the population base. There is therefore no reason to believe that the further development of in-house medical departments alone will solve the problem of corridor Asiates. The work on the interaction reform has just started in order to create a good flow of healthcare and to pay for municipalities and hospitals to treat patients in the right place. This means that several patients should be offered outside the hospital, i.e. in the community health service, who should be equipped to prevent disease and follow-up and treat patients who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1026	At the end of the Council of State interventions, I would like to say that we are aware of the intention of the cooperation reform and its importance. When the final measures are in place, we'll see if we agree. We'll see when the matter comes. What worries me is that despite the fact that the problems associated with Corridor Asians have repeatedly been mentioned here in the Chamber, it shows, among other things, that. studies that the number is actually quite stable. ==References== 270 people are at all times in the corridors in Norwegian hospitals, and that doesn't seem to change. My question to the Council of State is that the hospitals have had a difficult situation, it is getting shorter and shorter lay time. Then the question is, can there be a context here as well, that the municipalities have not been able to convert that piece? And we also know that you have to learn from each other. My question to the Council of State is: Despite all the fine examples of the Council of State here mentioned, why can't we be a learning organisation and make sure that others take note?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1037	The last is a very important question, and I wish I had a very simple and clear answer to that. But I think we just have to realize that we have a long way to go in the healthcare system to make hospitals act like learning organisations that are actively looking for ‘best practice’ and that have good systems to implement it when it is established by institutions other than the one in question. But there is no alternative but to continue working on it. And I think what's happening now in Health South-East, which is half of Health-Norway and well, in hospital terms, is a good example of regional health companies taking it seriously. And in the business meetings that I've been at now, I've been driving hard on it with Corridor Asians. We don't have to give up; we just have to keep making demands in this area. And then it actually goes in the right direction, but very slowly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1044	Yeah, I hope that eventually will go in the right direction. The problem is that North Europe’s most modern and last hospital on the tribe, Aarhus – the new University Hospital in Akershus – had Corridor Asians already shortly after the opening. Even it went so far that you had to screen patients with the sheet inside the double rooms, where there should not be any more people. It's also in Health South-East. Here's the question of how we can get the message out and plan better. Of course, it does a lot of good, we know that. Last week I was just visiting Fosen DMS, which is a very special and good action – you should have. My question is: will the Council of State ensure that a strategy is put in place to focus even more on hospitals as learning organisations – not only internally in its own region, but also across the regions to bring Health Norway together into one kingdom and not in four health republics?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1051	I just want to comment on Ahus very briefly first. I feel quite sure that the representative Nesvik is aware that what is a major challenge at Aarhus is that the expansion is not finished. When the whole of Ahus is complete, I'm very optimistic that we're getting a better solution to the corridor patient challenge there. Yes, we are constantly working on the challenge of creating a learning organisation of the entire Hospital-Norway. Of course, it also has to be that regional health companies learn from each other, so we get a whole out of it. There's certainly things to do that can improve it. And then I think the most important thing we can do now in relation to the corridor patient challenge is to stand in it and work on the interaction reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1061	‘The number of newly created drug cases in Oslo police district was halved in the last four months of 2008 compared to the previous year. It seems strange, not least because in many living environments, for example: Along Akerselva, there is great concern that drug trafficking is increasing and with more uncertainty in the living environment as a direct consequence. Oslo's chief of police thinks there's a campaign in the Oslo police force that's the cause. What does the Council of State think is the reason why the number of open drug cases is halved in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1068	The case has been referred to the Police Directorate, who answers us in the department: ‘It is true that the number of self-produced drug cases in Oslo has been substantially reduced in the last months of 2008. The main reason for this is that officials/women in the Oslo police district, as other policemen in the country, have increasingly chosen to protect their leisure time. This has been a major challenge for Oslo police districts. This does not mean, however, that there was no effort to detect drugs, but it was done to a lesser extent than the police district could wish.’ In its Soria Moria Declaration, the government has stressed the need to pursue a restrictive and comprehensive drug policy. Combating drug crime is part of this policy and must be a priority task for the police. Oslo plays a central role in the use and further distribution of illicit drugs, unfortunately. Open collection and marketing sites present a particular challenge because they are sought by young people from other parts of the country to buy drugs for their own use or to continue their sale. Police therefore need to give priority to street presence and, in particular, to targeting minors. A reduction in the number of self-produced drugs, as we have now seen in the Oslo police district, is unfortunate and shows the importance of normalising the police situation. The police directorate reports that Oslo Police District has decided to give priority to the open drug markets in Oslo in 2009, and such increased efforts are now under planning. In 2009, the district will work to combat drug crime in several of the main places of use and trafficking in Oslo, and will do so in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and other partners in order to demonstrate that drug use and trafficking are not acceptable. There it is important to look at the measures that have now been put in place throughout Police Norway, and which I also know have the support of the questioner. Oslo Police District has been allocated 100 out of the 460 civil acts the police received in the action package, which was recently adopted. It is a significant investment, of which I expect significant results. Today, the district is using police officers to produce and watch the courts because they have too few detainees. By, for example, adding more detainees, something Oslo is about to do, police officers can quickly be released for operational work, also to combat drug crime and to alleviate the situation that many police officers and women feel, that there will be too much overtime. I think it's one important political answer to this question, and it's that you actually now do what you can, besides training as many policemen as possible, by getting more civilians to replace.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1088	The action package went largely through the Storting, and that means that it can be operational quite quickly, I expect. Whether we're facing an action or a campaign, as Mr. Oslo's chief of police says, or whether it's the director's claim to protect one's most comprehensive leisure time is not really that interesting for the undersigned. What's more alarming is the descriptions we've seen in the World Gang the last three or four days of how the obvious drug turnover is happening in Oslo's centre. I also record that the wise police officer says that efforts need to be stepped up and cleaned up in these drug centres one by one during the spring and summer. My question is, does the Council of State feel confident that this is now a priority area in the Oslo Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1097	I feel confident that this is a priority. I really appreciate the fact that the question is raised here, too, in Stortinget, because it's very important that we get this kind of street crime, while I am eager to say that it's not a simple crime to grips with, because many of those who move in these environments are, of course, heavily addicted, so that we have to at least be able to think nuanced considering how we tackle it. But I have had a conversation with Vice-President Andresen this morning and received good assurances about the work that is being done. It will be closely followed up from the Department, especially given that so many new posts are now going into Oslo, and especially because both mobile and stationary police posts are now to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1104	In the same reply from Vice-President Andresen, it is also shown that there are some asylum seekers recruited and perhaps coming to Norway with a view to engaging in criminal activity in the drug traffic to which we are witnessing. On previous occasions, it has been pointed out that there needs to be closer cooperation between the police and the foreign authority. Foreigners who do not have a right of residence, who have obviously unfounded applications, must, when they are taken, be sent out as quickly as possible, not least in order to appear more preventative than has been the case so far. My question is: is this cooperation now in progress? Or do you, as Andresen says, now take hold of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1111	Cooperation between the foreign authorities and the police has improved in the last year. It is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to achieve what is perhaps the most effective sanction against foreign citizens who come here to commit crime, namely that they get passports back. I will not stand here and claim that everything has been done in terms of the cooperation between the police's foreign unit and the foreign agencies for the rest, but it's close cooperation. It is now working to get a more effective broadcast, not only by those who come to commit crime, but also by those who have served their punishment here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1121	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In an interview with police officer Arnstein Nilssonen in Tidens Krår 17 February, he says that 2009 appears to be a crisis year. The police in North Moravia and Romesdal don't have enough money to keep a budget. Positions must be cut. He further states that they need to adapt their operations to the budget they have, and the increase they have received in their budgets covers very close to price increases and wage increases. Is this a case-by-case, or is this situation also in other police districts, and what will the Council of State do in this respect?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1130	Initially, I will be allowed to note that the appropriations for the police and prosecution authorities have increased by NOK 2.3 billion in the period 2006-2009. If compensation for wage and price increases is deducted, the increase is approx. $1.1 billion. In my opinion, this is a significant strengthening. Only in 2009 have the appropriations increased by more than DKK 1 billion. If compensation for wage and price increases is deducted, the increase is approx. 460 million. kr. In addition, the additional appropriations adopted in December 2008 increased the budgets of the police districts by 52 million. kr. The Directorate of Police shall be responsible for allocating these appropriations to the Police and Liaison Committee. Police districts receive a framework appropriation to cover all expenses, salaries, operations, investments, etc. It is up to the individual police districts to decide how the appropriations are to be allocated internally in the district. In general, I would like to point out that police districts should not set up more annual works than they have a financial framework. It should be a natural thing. The allocation of this year’s appropriations has been the main objective of maintaining the level of operation in police districts at the same level as in 2008. Police districts have been reinforced by compensation for price and wage increases and for volume changes related, among other things. the management of non-residents, the winding-up of the auxiliaries scheme, new posts, the rights of beneficiaries and senior policy measures. In addition, districts will now be able to use released funds, with DNA analyses now to be centrally funded — a reform that is about to be six months old. In the case of North-Møre and Romesdal police districts in particular, they have increased their appropriations from 2008 to 2009 at around EUR 15 billion. $8.7 million. kr – an increase of 146 million. SEK in 2008 to SEK 154.7 million. kr in 2009. In addition, they have received six posts out of the 460 posts allocated to the action package presented on 26 January this year. And then the increase is going to be almost $12 million. kr. Nordmøre and Romesdal police districts have a satisfactory budgetary situation, in relation to the current distribution model. In the package of measures that I mentioned earlier, which was presented in January, there is, as I said, a significant number of posts for the police – 460 in total in the country. It's almost twice as much as the Police Joint Association suggested, so it should be taking good care of. By adding more civilians, police officers can quickly be released from tasks that do not require police training. In practice, this means — and here it is on a national basis — that about 280 police officers can be released for operational work. Civil positions shall also cover an increasing number of cases in respect of much of the civil portfolio. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Directorate of Police has carried out the investigation ‘Police against 2020 — The needs of police personnel and competences’. The 2009 draft budget follows the recommendations of the report, in particular with regard to the increase in admission to the Police College to 552 students, so that during this four-year period we take up 600 more students than in the previous four-year period — a significant number. With the 460 new civilian positions that came to pass, we are well on track for the goal of having 1000 new civilian positions by 2020 – in fact, halfway. In my opinion, therefore, efforts towards the Norwegian police have been significantly strengthened, which benefits all districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1145	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What worries me the most is the absence of interconnection – I don't know what to call it. In view of the reality that the Council of State gives when it comes to what the police chief here calls for a warning, there is a considerable room for improvement. The Commissioner for Police in North Moravia and Romesdal, who is a contemplative and calm man, says that it is possible that more than 15 posts in that police district will have to be removed in order to give priority, among other things. the cities of the district. This actually makes it harder for those who live in the more pig-grown strips to get help when they need it. It does not help to increase the number of civilian posts, if the police after the closing hours – i.e. after 5 p.m. 16 — do not have resources for the so-called variable unit costs, i.e. to move out of opening time. Does the Council of State see this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1152	I am very pleased with many of the positive signals that have come from the police officers regarding this initiative. The considerable investment in staffing — in 460 posts for the Norwegian police — was well received. I don't think anyone can hide that. This helps to free up police force both in the daytime and in the evening. The police officers who today have civilian tasks in the daytime, for example: in Oslo warehouses, will be able to end it and put all his efforts into doing police work in the field when it really applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1159	It's quite obvious that getting more civil positions will have a positive effect. However, what civilians can do in relation to police officers is limited, so that we are also aware of it – all the answers must not be to have more civil positions in the future. That's why it's positive that you've increased your admission to the Police College. But then my question is to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do exactly, so that we do not get into the situation of actually resigning police officers in the police districts, while we have almost doubled the admission to the Police College? What's the point of doubling the admission to the Police College if these people don't get a job? Can the Council of State guarantee that these persons will receive a job? Will the Council of State ensure that any redundancies in the individual police districts are now stopped? Whether you have a job or not will cause uncertainty in itself if you see that the individual police districts go to redundancies instead of new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1166	Now I have explained that the police and prosecution authorities in Norway have had a significant budget increase. I find it hard to believe that the main challenges in police Norway are to cancel the police. What has been the point of appeal to politics has been that we have trained for a few policemen. When you do three things – you increase the budgets, you grant civil posts, and at the same time you have a historic admission to the Police College – I have to say that there must be a good response to what the police districts are asking for. Of course, with regard to the future large coals coming out of the Police College in 2010, 2011 and 2012, the future budgets will clarify whether they will get a job. It's not up to me to decide now, but I'd find it very strange if we were to set up the police budgets so that these forces don't get a job in the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1176	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The question of opening up the use of hijab to the police is a matter for the Ministry of Justice. In the daily newspaper of February 18th, it appears that the court administration has started an investigation to clarify the use of religious and other symbols in court. Does the Council of State see that these are issues that should be addressed by the Ministry of Justice, and does the Council of State agree that there should be common rules for the use of religious headgear and police and judicial symbols?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1185	The Courts of Justice are independent and the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice is an independent body governed by its own Governing Board. The administration of the Court of Justice cannot be instructed by the Ministry of Justice. This division of responsibilities is laid down by Stortinget in the Law of the Court of Justice. Guidelines for the activities of the Court of Justice are normally provided by the Storting through the processing of budgetary proposals, which the applicant is fully aware of. In addition, the King may take decisions on the activities of the State Council, provided that the administration of the Court of Justice is given the opportunity to give its opinion in advance before the decision is taken. It is clear from the legal process that this provision must be seen as a safety valve which is used only in exceptional cases. There are currently no rules on the use of religious and other symbols in court. To date, there have also been no situations that have made it necessary to regulate this. Nor has it come so far to the desire of professionals to use such symbols, as far as we have experience. According to Section 142 of the Law of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice may provide detailed rules on the ‘use of jackets and other suits’ at judicial meetings for, inter alia, judges and other staff of the court. I am aware that the Court of Justice on its own initiative has initiated an investigation to assess whether rules on the use of religious and other symbols in court should be laid down. The issue of access to religious and other symbols can be regulated by law by the Stortinget, regardless of what the Court of Justice comes to. I believe that there is a compelling reason that as much as possible equal guidelines are used in terms of the use of religious headgear and symbols in the police and courts. Out of respect for the special status of the courts, I will await the Court of Justice's assessment of this. When this is available, I will present the matter to Storting in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1198	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I actually think is reassuring – in the sense that I think it is important that we have common driving rules in the justice sector. I am satisfied with the answer that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with this matter in an appropriate way. But I'm just wondering if the Council of State can say if he has an idea of how long this process can take, given the discussion that has been, and the fact that it could also be good to get a clarification on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1210	The questioner knows we're not directing the court administration. This initiative has come from the Maritime Court Administration, so I want to wait for the work done there. I would also like to leave it to the Court of Justice to assess the time perspective. I am very pleased that the representative Aspaker believes that there is a good process around this. I have to say that precisely these questions, and the experiences we've had over the last few days, also speak for at least agreeing on what kind of process you're going to have in relation to this. I want to do what I can to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way as soon as the clarifications are available from the court administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1217	I am aware that the court administration has noticed that this case has now actually been brought up in the Questionnaire in Stortinget, so I think it might also affect the progress of the process that you put up there. I am also aware that there are different distinctions that can be made between professionals, laymen, jury, etc., and that there are a number of issues here that are relevant. I accept that the Council of State should not override the administration of the Court of Justice – of course you should not. They have an independent position, and I take note that we get a case about it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1222	Let me just repeat that I think this is a sensible approach from the representative of Aspacer. This is a matter that it is important to clarify. At the same time, I also believe that the representative of Aspaker should have the honour of respecting the independence and independence of the Court administration. I believe that both the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and those behind that reform seem to be a wise choice. In this way, we can get a good process around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1230	‘In its oral Question Time on 11 February, the Council of State weighted cost-effectiveness as a central criterion in the focus on renewable energy. The lack of wind power was due to the fact that you get more by betting on an ac. With such logic, hydropower would be at the heart of Enova's renewable initiative, but the Council of State concentrated instead on offshore wind power and biopower, with high subsidy needs. What does the Council of State actually mean when talking about cost-efficiency and renewable energy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1237	To meet the challenges of climate and energy, we need to invest widely in environmentally friendly energy solutions. We both need to focus on achieving more environmentally friendly energy production, and we need to use energy more efficiently. The broad bet is reflected by the fact that we have set targets both at the overall level and in specific areas. We implement the measures required to achieve the objectives in the most cost-effective way possible. I am concerned that work on energy conversion will develop an efficient market for environmentally friendly energy solutions, which will be viable in the long term without support schemes. Our commitment to renewable energy is two-fold. We support projects that will not be implemented without our support, and we provide sufficient concessional capacity. During 2009, the concessional capacity of the NVE will have doubled compared to 2005. A stronger priority has also been put in place between cases to ensure that NVE’s concessional treatment apparatus is used as efficiently as possible. I have also made sure to strengthen the capacity for the complaint handling of hydropower and wind power in my department. In the case of hydropower, its profitability is evenly above good. We have had a significant increase in production capacity in recent years. From 2006 to 2008, the annual production capacity increased by 2,1 TWh. Hydropower projects with a production capacity of about 1,2 TWh per. years are now under development. We have arranged for even more hydropower to be rapidly developed by improving the efficiency and strengthening of this concession treatment. With regard to the development of the market for bioenergy, wind power and some other renewable energy sources, we will not have any development now without state aid schemes. We have focused on designing support so that we get as much wind and bioenergy as possible again for each support crown. At the same time, research and development are important for finding solutions that can be competitive in the long term in the market. In the case of energy efficiency improvement, the instrument is composed in order to achieve the most cost-effective solution possible. The potential exists in industry and in the building mass, and parts of it are isolated economically without support. Good information, good examples and standards of energy efficiency are a way of strengthening this work further. Aid schemes are also involved in the realisation of projects that are particularly ambitious and point to future standards. Research and development are important for the development of increasingly better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1252	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the part of the answer that I understood to be a message that one should minimise the use of support money in relation to the objectives that you should have. It's no use throwing away money that you can get better use from elsewhere. But when I bring up the topic, it's because I'm looking for the logical reasoning in relation to a renewable energy investment, because it's important for the industry to understand how you think. In that Question Time, then, one of the government councils was told that wind power did not reach, because it was not cost-effective in relation to a rook, while one spoke very positively about offshore wind power, which is thus much more expensive. Without one having to go further in that debate, I wonder: How will the Council of State achieve the objective of 3 TWh wind power, when he says that the projects that have been submitted so far have not come out well in competition? There's a lot left before you have 3 TWh. If it has not been cost-effective so far, does he believe that the projects coming forward will be more profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1263	In the case of offshore wind power, I'm just going to comment very briefly, because as the questioner himself said, it's not a main theme. My entrance to that and my enthusiasm for it, is there, while I see that it's the next step. I don't compare offshore wind power per. today with the expansion of thermal solutions by bioenergy or wind power on land. I am absolutely sure that we now need a framework to make sure that we can go offshore when the technology is more accessible than it is today. When it comes to achieving the objective of wind power, I have no problem admitting that it is a demanding job, because we have seen such a strong cost increase in wind power development in recent years. The figures for it are really extreme in terms of what is the cost picture now compared to what it was a few years ago. What was also Enova's assessment last autumn was that the projects had to be reviewed once more to look at the possibilities to improve the profitability of individual projects. I expect that we will see the kind of processes and the kind of conclusions associated with individual projects in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1270	Thanks for the answer. Then I perceive the council so that he assumes that the wind power projects will come out better financially when he has seen them in another round. So I'm not going to follow it up, I'm just looking forward to it actually happening. As the Council of State went a little way into offshore wind power, I would like to raise a very topical issue – it is also about cost efficiency. At the MET centre on Karmøy, where StatoilHydro will build infrastructure to test out its Hywind project, one with a limited State contribution could have built an infrastructure that also allowed one to test out other technologies. Ergo could hit one more flies in a taste. Not only could the Government then boast that they had laid the groundwork for how offshore offshore wind power at sea could function, be regulated and granted concession, but one could also show that one actually, in addition to a research centre, also had a practical area for testing this. Will the Council of State look again at the situation there, and see if he will come up with a limited number of millions of dollars to realize the MET centre as a slightly larger test area for offshore wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1279	Now I know from experience that the representative Solvik-Olsen is not very satisfied when I refer to Enova in my answers. But I probably have to go a little round about it, because it's not like I'm sitting at a budget line in my department that goes up to deal with single applications. I also believe it is important that Enova has the opportunity to go into and assess the individual projects, based on the fact that they have an economic framework for their business given by me and the Government. This year, Enova will spend almost 3 billion dollars on different types of renewable projects, and I expect many good projects to be realised through it. But that does not mean, of course, that there is automatic support for a project, regardless of the assessment made by the individual project from Enova. In addition to that, I will not go into and mention specific individual projects that have been treated in Enova – other than to say that I trust that there are good professional judgements on the basis of which projects are supported or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1289	‘The lack of electricity prevents the fishing business of Modolv Sea Pelagic from using its production capacity. Power shortages also prevent Trainers from expanding residential areas. Fishing is a corner stone farm, and the lack of electricity threatens the existence of the island community. Training depends entirely on increased capacity on power supplies to survive as a viable society. Will the Council of State follow up the promise made by Sps leader that the power cable will be in place before the autumn elections in 2009?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1296	It is initially the responsibility of the network companies to ensure sufficient supply quality on electricity to customers in their areas. This is imposed on them by the general regulatory framework for the regulation of network activities and the requirements for the universal service of electricity set there. The transmission network shall be developed in a socio-economic rational manner. Now it's like that, for example. The distance to land can make the establishment of new or strengthening existing transfer connections very expensive — as is the case with Training, Værøy and Røst. I have a great understanding of how difficult the situation is for these island communities when power becomes a scarce asset. Electricity is a prerequisite for coastal and industrial development, which in turn forms the basis for regional development and settlement. It was in order to address the type of regional differences in the costs of the transmission system companies that the Government doubled the grant for balancing the network rental in 2009. It is therefore granted 60 million. kr over the State budget for this purpose this year. The balancing mechanism contributes to a direct reduction of network rental for end-users in the distribution system in those areas of the country with the highest transmission costs. Red-Lurøy Power Plant, Trainer, is supported by the system today, while Lofotkraft, Værøy and Røst, are not among those who currently have the highest network rental. The government continues to work for a transmission system with sufficient capacity across the country. The transmission network is part of the critical infrastructure. The government therefore assesses possible solutions – without me being able to go into the details of this now. But I am optimistic that we will find a good solution to this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1309	I thank you for the answer, although it wasn't much to thank for. I am afraid that understanding the problem far from enough. Here it has to be a practical solution. After all, the corner stone company at Traina has already announced that they consider moving from Traina. It means a direct depopulation of the Training Society, and of course it will hit the whole community very, very hard. So there are many people who have promised something. I understand that the State Council will not follow up what the Central Party leader, Navarsete, said at the annual meeting in the Nordland Senterparti, that the cable should be in place before the 2009 elections. The training society needs a decision, that a choice is made, they need to work towards a goal, so that they can maintain society out there, the production of fish and the foreign capital they move into Norway. Will the Council not make a promise that they will find a solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1318	What I said – and what I think is an important message – is that we and I are working on concrete, possible solutions to this problem. As I also said in my first answer, the starting point here is that this is a responsibility of the network companies. But I see – and I share the reality description as it is made by the questioner here – that one here has an extraordinary case that this way also requires one not only to stick to the formal in relation to the fact that it is a local responsibility. That means that the matter is being worked on, and I am, as I also said, optimistic about the fact that it should be possible to find a release on it. In this respect, I do believe that this is an answer that the representative Svendsen does not necessarily regard as a negative answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1325	That is not necessarily a negative answer, and the fact that it is working on the matter is good. The problem is that it has been working on the matter for seven years, during Odd Roger Enoxen both in his first and second periods as Minister of Oil and Energy, under Åslaug Haga and now under Terje Riis-Johansen. They've been well informed about the matter, so it's been working for seven years. It is not beneficial for a society to cut the electricity consumption of the population in order for production at the farm to go too far, or for production at the farm to be cut down in order to allow the population to heat up their houses. It is not a future, and therefore the solution must come quickly. When the head of the Central Party has so clearly stated that it will come before the elections, my appeal and my question are again: Will the Government promise that what the head of the Central Party has said will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1330	Once again, I share the description given here by the seriousness of the situation, and that one in these island communities has a special situation. That's one of the reasons I've had meetings with representatives of these areas. Then I can't answer for what happened in the six and a half years of the seven that the representative here refers to. But what I can say is that I've been working on this matter for the months I've been the Council of State, and I have an ambition to continue working on this to look at the possibilities of finding their solution. When I say I'm optimistic about it, it's because I think the matter should find its solution. We can't live on for long with the situation that's now. I also believe in general that securing energy access in small, vulnerable peripheral communities is an important political issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-25.ana.ud2362e1337	That's the last question in today's Question Time. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
