ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e70	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, has taken the seat. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e78	On behalf of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and myself, I would like to suggest that the teachers have the right to expel students in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e83	The representative, Mr Sahl, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e86	I am pleased to make a proposal from the representatives of the local authorities Line Henriette Holten Hämdal, Dagfinn Høybräten, Dagrun Eriksen and I signed on the introduction of an environmental car premium for car buyers who buy an environmentally friendly car in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e91	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e105	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e114	It is an important cultural policy today. It is rare that we have the opportunity to have a wide-ranging debate on language policy in Stortinget. It has actually been quite fun and a little honorable to be the case rapporteur for this matter. Now I hope my voice holds, but I realize that today I am being interpreted in sign language, so at least those who are watching have a better chance of seeing me than many of those who are listening. The language message we received from the Government is based on the Norwegian language board's study in a hundred! which came in 2005. It is important to look at how, with a more conscious language policy and a language debate in the United Kingdom, you can try to raise the important issues related to language. The language is important to us, not just as pure communication; in our time it is also important to look at the language as a forceholder and identity creator. Language and identity are closely related, and it is through the approach to languages that you can create tolerances related to the different forms of language, dialects and writing. It is important to see this big message in the context of the message on language training addressed by the Church, Education and Research Committee. I would like to refer to the different views of the parties in this matter as well. I believe that the message is a good basis for a comprehensive and cross-sectoral language policy. There is a relatively broad consensus on most of the points in this message. First, some of the overall grips. The first is a desire to have a language law. To that the committee is positive, but pending. We clearly see a need to merge the three legislations that today constitute language legislation in Norway, and the Committee sees a need for a clearer legal framework for our languages. Another important step is to extend the area of competence and tasks of the Language Council. There is also a broad consensus in the committee about whether some of us are concerned with counteracting a concentration of power and perhaps wanting more power spread associated with this field. I refer you to proposals in this area. We believe that here we can look at our Nordic sister country that has chosen to create both a language council structure and a division of tasks within the academy in the same area. We are very positive about establishing a permanent language policy follow-up regime – most parties agree on this – so that we get a systematic approach in the decision-making framework of the elected people in this area. There are also some measures here that I and the Committee feel it is important to bring forward. One is to develop Norwegian terminology and professional languages in the various fields. I am very pleased that the entire committee states that it is important for Norway to have a terminology in Norwegian in the various disciplines. That is, both in nynosic and book goals. It's a task for a nation. Therefore, the use of languages in research and higher education is very important. Norwegian shall be the principal language of academia. If we are to achieve this in a good way, it is important that the appropriations for higher education and research continue to be kept up, and that the production of textbooks in Norwegian continues to be maintained. We have also been involved in the use of languages in the workplace. I refer to our proposal that at least a Norwegian limited liability company should be required to be able to submit the annual report in Norwegian – that it should be expected. We're positive about the construction of a language bank, about whether we're a little skeptical about everything going to happen in the public sector, and think that maybe it's best in working with the private sector. We have also highlighted language use in the media and the cultural sector in general — there are several proposals — and believe it is an important area to focus on in order to help the Norwegian language to live on. I want to come back to the individual suggestions in a three-minute post. There's one thing I want to put the search light on, which I'm very happy that we're getting to today, and that's sign language, which has to be given complete status as a maritime language. I think that is very important, and it is a very important step that is being taken here today. It's important for the identity of many who view sign language as their main language. With that, I'll take up the suggestions left behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e135	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e138	In many ways, this is a historic day. The size has not had an overall language debate based on its own message since 1970 – that is, 40 years ago. It is quite alarming, not only when looking back on language conflict and how it has shaped conflict lines in Norwegian policy, but also in the light of recent discussions and research, research on power and language, on language groups that are disappearing worldwide, on Norwegian languages that are losing in relation to English-speaking dominance, but also in relation to Norway's becoming multicultural, and that schools and communities in many large cities are characterised by a variety of mother tongues spoken alongside Norwegian. Also, it's a backtrace to approach a new language policy. These broad issues form the basis for proposals for a new and more comprehensive language policy. It is precisely this overall thinking that makes this language message new and groundbreaking, and a more timely response to the language policy challenges we have today. The Communication calls for a new and general language law in which the authorities will have overall responsibility for the development of languages in society. The reason for this responsibility lies in recognising that language and language development are essential for the identity and cultural affiliation of individuals, and recognising that language and power are interrelated, and that it is therefore important to have a language policy that contributes to democratic power over language and a strategy for redistribution of linguistic power. The language law must establish the status of the Norwegian language as the main language, and that neo-Norwegian must be genuinely equated with bookkeeping. However, the law should also provide a framework for languages other than Norwegian. In this context, emphasis is placed on the need to take care of linguistic diversity, to strengthen Sami and the languages of national minorities. Norwegian Sign Language must be recognised as a full language with a anchor in the Language Act. The recognition of sign language in line with other minority languages is based on a groundbreaking paradigm shift. This gives sign-languages a cultural policy understanding framework rather than an understanding framework based on anomalies and social policies. This is precisely the basis for a completely different identity experience for the sign-languagers. Furthermore, emphasis is placed on responsibility for the development of the Nordic community and the development of foreign-language competence. Achieving the objectives laid down in this Communication requires a systematic follow-up to the objectives. It is absolutely essential that in this context we have structures that ensure this. Proposals for the reorganisation of the Language Council, with an extension of competence, are one of the measures. In addition, a permanent linguistic follow-up regime is proposed through the development of language policy consultations and consultation mechanisms, through more documentation and analysis of language status and use in different fields, through the preparation of an annual language policy state report, and through the legalisation of a language policy notification to the Stortinget every four years. With such a strategy, we will be able to ensure that language policy is put high on the political agenda and that we have a continuous debate on language. We want to ensure that it will not be 40 years until the next time the Stortinge treats a similar message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e155	The Progress Party believes the language is a bearer in our common cultural heritage. The party considers that the individual must choose his or her own language form. We in the Progress Party are convinced that the best strategy for a strong and vibrant Norwegian language is to invest in the daily, voluntary use of the language. Real linguistic and linguistic skills cannot be created by quota and public order. Someone senses this to that point that we're opposed to neuron. This is completely wrong. We have to make it clear that we are hot followers of new Norwegian, but we believe that today's policy is doing a new Norwegian service. Novelty can survive only with daily, voluntary use — no language and no target form can survive only on quota and public orders. Also in previous language policy issues dealt with by the Storting, the Progress Party has called for a policy based on freedom of choice for individuals, the absence of quotas and the absence of impositions. The Progress Party also notes with great pleasure that the Communication states that convergence policy, i.e. bookkeeping and new Norwegian must be standardised in such a way as to bring them closer to each other over time is no longer relevant. I would like to take up some of the key points in the comments and proposals of the Progress Party: We want a liquidation of the distribution of one target form at the expense of another. We believe that civil servants in state or municipal bodies should be able to use the target form that falls naturally. Requests for a branch office can be answered in a new Norwegian language if the official’s target form and vice versa. We believe that state-owned companies that have changed their form of operation, preferably to limited liability companies, but also to other companies such as health companies, should be exempt from regulations and regulations that include government bodies in the target law. Like other opposition parties, we believe that measures need to be taken to ensure that language screening is established as soon as possible at the four-year check-up at the health centre of the country, and the provision of follow-up and measures to detect diverging language developments. In the case of Sami, female, romance, other minority languages and foreign languages, we believe that it is a sunlight right for everyone to be able to use their own language in the context where it is natural to use it. At the same time, it is important, in the view of the Progress Party, to clarify that languages other than the official Norwegian language cannot expect specific framework conditions, public drag or public subsidies. With regard to the position of new Norwegian and a number of minority languages, the Communication outlines a number of public support measures. For many years, a deliberate pre-allocation policy has been pursued on behalf of new Norwegians, among others. with quotas and grants to the Target and to the New Norwegian dictionary. The distribution of new Norwegian has gone beyond book measures, which is unreasonable. Therefore, the grants to the two target forms should be distributed more fairly, either through an equal grant or through grants based on the number of persons with the target form as their primary objective. As part of this, funding for the work of the great Norwegian Academy Dictionary should be given higher priority than today. We see some bad trends in the comments that you want to override the press and the editors. The Progress Party believes that it is a natural consequence of the principle of full freedom of expression that the editors in each medium define the linguistic profile of the media. We therefore believe that the requirements for the target form cannot be linked to the support system for the newspapers. The Government proposes to impose the availability of software to be used by the public on both target forms. The Progress Party considers this to be a poor requirement. So a little bit about the side measure in relation to the school: this has been bothering me since I was a student myself, and all the time until today. At the time I was in the Education Committee of the Storting, I made several suggestions in this area. Norwegian youth is increasingly characterised by reduced Norwegian skills. There's talk of one out of five not learning our language well enough. I am convinced that forced lateral training helps to reduce students' motivation in the Norwegian field and disrupt students' language development. The way out of this mess is obvious. It is to remove the written secondary education and instead to offer the subject as an electoral subject. The oral side objective should be included as a natural part of normal Norwegian education — but without examination or examination press. With this, I present the comments of the Progress Party and take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e199	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e202	The language is the skill that most clearly defines our cultural position and our cultural affiliation. Language is the way to communicate with others. It's a plank for our professional life and for our participation in all the communities we participate in through life. Not least, this is an important recognition in our thinking about caring for minority languages in our country. Therefore, the right is concerned that everyone should have the best possible linguistic starting point in life. We therefore want to pick up those children who, for various reasons, may have a difficult start in Norwegian, with a view to stimulating language development and knowledge before they begin school. Historically speaking, language is protected through school education in the fields of writing, reading and literature. In this sense, the performance of the language is one of the central tasks of the State that Right wants to strengthen. Globalisation and technological development present new major challenges that today’s language policy must also address, which this Communication draws up in a good way. The most important topic here is how to contribute to language development in a form and at a pace that clearly defines Norwegian as a cultural home for us. Language development cannot be controlled. The use of loan words, dialects and snakes will always be there, but at a time when cultural products are dramatically increased in volume, and the content of other cultures on the web, film or ether media is a key pressure away, it is important that we have a large enough production in Norwegian that we do not marginalize on our own track half. This, of course, is not to be understood in a narrow-minded nationalist sense. Competition with external pressure cannot meet with protective mechanisms. It has to meet through the contributions we actually make. The language message here spells out a number of policy areas to which the Right can join. In addition to the concrete actions to be taken gradually, it is also considered important that strong civil society actors contribute to keeping the language debate and the interest in languages alive. Up through the years, the main focus of the Norwegian language debate has been how we can ensure that new Norse people continue on a viable level. The recognition that the smallest language needs the most support has led to a substantial increase in financial contributions to businesses and organisations working in the field of innovation and, among other things, to the recognition that the smallest language needs the most support. This has built up a stronger community of interests than what we see for the public — or the book target. In a new phase, which we are now in, in which the focus of the language debate should equally be on the relationship between Norwegian and English, it is in everyone's interest that the organisations and the business that originate from the majority language should also be strengthened. Here is a work to be done in connection with the future budgets. Another perspective that could have been further reinforced in the notification is the opportunities offered by the Scandinavian community. It must be an objective to contribute to an increased understanding of Scandinavian languages. In this context, it is important to stimulate the channels in which we Scandinavians meet as an audience – hence the proposal of the Right to contribute to a common Nordic television channel based on the model of the German-French Arte, which is strong in the field of culture. Film and television collaboration is also important here to strengthen the Nordic community, not least we have seen fine examples of this in film. I would also like to underline the importance of strengthening cooperation in the field of standardisation through the common Nordic channels within which we work on a more general basis. I think we can see that there is a broad consensus on language policy. I sign up to the rapporteur's presentation of the work in a large way. I would also like to pay particular attention to the importance of our conscious approach to these issues in higher education and research, and I refer here to the observations made by the Right in the Research and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e221	I join those who have said that this was time – it was 40 years ago that we dealt with a language message in Norway. Norway is a small language area and the Norwegian language is under constant pressure. There is therefore a need for offensive language policy. The language is the cornerstone of Norwegian social and cultural life. Controlling language and text, written and oral, is becoming increasingly important in the workplace and in democracy. SV will point to the valuable diversity of two Norwegian font cultures. Nynorsk and Bokmål are formally equal, but in reality, new Norwegian still has more difficult conditions. It is therefore particularly important to ensure good development opportunities for new Norwegian citizens. Language policy should also promote linguistic diversity. This means that neo-Norwegian is more effectively equated with book goals, the Sami languages are strengthened, the languages of national minorities are protected and Norwegian sign languages are given a different and higher status. In the message, the value of the new language wealth we have been given thanks to immigration over the last decades is underlined. Taking care of the Nordic community and strengthening the foreign-language competence of the Nordics most are also important elements of language policy. Language policy is therefore a comprehensive and cross-sectoral policy area with cultural policy anchoring. This means that the Ministry of Culture and the Church will have an overall professional responsibility for language policy, while at the same time this is a responsibility that goes far beyond the responsibilities of this department. The Committee stresses the importance of early and good language stimulation for all children and that children have good language skills when they start school. Kindergartens are particularly important in this context. The Committee further points out that municipalities have an important responsibility for the prevention of language abuse for children and young people, including those who do not go to kindergarten. The language message provides for a general language law. The law shall determine the official status of the Norwegian language as the main language in Norway and shall also provide a framework for languages other than Norwegian. The notification recognises Norwegian sign language as a full language and the overall responsibility for the sign language is enshrined in the Language Act. This is something SV has worked for many years, and we are therefore very pleased that it is finally in place. Drawing language is a language that is necessary for many, it is a language with many shades. It is therefore correct and necessary that the language should be dealt with in official language policy. In addition, there will be a separate sign language consultant in the Language Council, and from now on the Language Council will have the formal responsibility for developing sign language. For those groups that use sign language as a daily language, this is a win and a recognition. For the rest of us, it's a enrichment. Children, young people and adults who are completely or partly speechless need alternative forms of communication to express themselves and understand. In Norway, there are nearly 500 children and young people under the age of 20 who have neither speech nor sign language as their current form of communication. During the examination of the language information, the Committee has chosen to focus on other means of communication for those who have linguistic disabilities, who may be born or who have contracted disease or harm to their lives. Many with the disease cerebral paresis, muscle diseases, autism or other developmental problems have neither speech nor motor skills to master speech or sign language, but often have normal language understanding and the same needs as everyone else in order to communicate. For many of these, alternative or supplementary communication, ASK, is the only option. We in the Committee point out that new technologies and professional-pedagogical development enable these people to provide a tool for communication. In order to provide a comprehensive and equivalent range of services to this group, there is a need to pool skills around the diagnosis, development of educational and technical tools and the training of the support device. With this language message, the Government provides the basis for a new and offensive language policy. The overall objective is to ensure the status and use of the Norwegian language in all areas of society, so that it can be presented as a full language.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e247	The Norwegian Language Storing Message is an important message. The debate on Norwegian language policy and how best to take care of it in the Norwegian language is needed. The message provides a good analysis of the situation, and points to important challenges. I would particularly like to point out how important it is to strengthen the position of the new witch. Formally speaking, nine Norse and Bokmål are similar target forms, but in reality, there is a more innovative and more difficult situation. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the public has a special responsibility to facilitate the development of new Norse people in a good way. The use of nynorrhea in public administration represents a counterweight to those parts of society in which nynorrhea has bad framework conditions. It is a well-known fact that the Progress Party fights against the right to get answers from the public in its own way. The party of progress will modernise and streamline the public sector away from the demand for the use of new Norse. The Progress Party believes the new Norse "reduces the efficiency and ability to meet the goals of the respective entities", as they write in the setting. Luckily, the party is alone in believing that neo-normous is an economic tax on society. The Christian People's Party believes that we can't afford to let go of the linguistic and cultural diversity we have. Democracy needs mechanisms to protect minority interests. This is not the case at least in areas where linguistic and cultural shortcomings are involved. Language development applies to all parts of society. This is about democracy and knowing the language its value for culture and identity. The Nynosken has a plural press against him. Therefore, a state-owned person must stimulate and facilitate the development of new Norse. There's nothing more important in the fight for new-nosed people than self-confidence and trust in our own linguistic origins. The same is true in the fight for the Norwegian language as a whole, regardless of target forms and speech variations. We need to get to experience new-world theaters, movies, literature, song and speech. Being proud of its own, whether it's language or culture in a wider sense, is also the best starting point for developing tolerance and respect for other cultural expressions. It's one of the most important things we can bring forward to future generations. We have to teach them to be proud of newnorm! Bookkeeping children get a lot of free because they meet their own language everywhere. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. They must meet their own language more places than in schoolbooks. They need to know that their language can be used for everything and everywhere. Children and young people spend a lot of time on different media. Language use in children’s and young people’s programmes has much to say about the language that children and young people benefit from in their daily lives. Therefore, it is important that children meet new - language children on television and on radio in children’s programmes. Public broadcasters have a clear responsibility to produce a linguistic deficiency, even in relation to children and young people. I mean, it's unfortunate that some Norwegian newspaper nudes their journalists to write neuron. The VAT exemption scheme for newspapers and press releases is designed to ensure freedom of expression and media pluralism. The message reads: ‘The Ministry expects national newspapers to be more able to use new Norwegian in editorial space.’ I think this is too passive. I think the national media houses should allow their paper and web journalists to write in a new way, and that they should work for a more general novelty. This concerns both freedom of expression in the Norwegian language community and linguistic and cultural diversity. This is not to intervene in editorial freedom, as someone claims, on the contrary. This is about freedom of expression. I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party to ask the Government to consider measures to increase the use of new drugs in the national newspapers and newspapers. It is important to safeguard deaf people's interests in society. It is important that sign language is recognised as a full language. Too many people find it difficult to get sufficient information from society around them in the same way that everyone else gets. Texturing and interpretation requirements for digital media in the field of television are important. Subtitles on cinema are also important for many people to be included in the cultural experience. That's why there's a paradox that we have a lot of great Norwegian movies that go around the country and the beach, but that many, many thousands won't be happy to experience because they can't hear what's being said, because they won't be texted. Nobody wants to be excluded, so we have to fight for everyone to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e279	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e282	The Central Party has long been committed to a new review of language policy. We are therefore very pleased that we have come so far today that St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008 shall be dealt with in Stortinget. This weekend, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was awarded the year's target prize by the Norwegian Target Team. As you know, my sister is originally chosen for Rogaland during this period, and in her spirit, I think my post should have been written in a neonymous way. But also Rogaland is characterized by a two-part division in terms of the main goal, and since I represent the southernmost part of Rogaland, namely Dalane, and not Ryfylke, the post is written in book goals, but is still mainly in dialect. The fact that the Centre Party has been working towards a new, comprehensive review of its language policy is due, among other things, to: recognising that the current instruments are not sufficient to achieve the desired objectives in the language field. At the same time, the overall language situation is constantly changing, and one must be alert to have the right tools to meet changing conditions and challenges for Norwegian languages at all times. The centre party is satisfied that the notification has an offensive approach to countering the loss of the Norwegian language domain. At the same time, special attention shall be paid to the fact that new Norwegian is to be more effectively equated with book goals, and the Sami language, the language of national minorities, Norwegian sign languages and all the newer immigrant languages are to be given higher official status and thus rights. A general language law will be an important step in defining the status and role of languages other than Norwegian within a comprehensive language policy. Norway is a small language area, and therefore, in a globalised world, it is important both that Nordic language cooperation be renewed and that foreign language competence be emphasised in parallel with the strengthening of Norwegian languages in all parts of Norwegian society. Having said that, there is no doubt that the main focus in the future must be focused primarily on further developing a fully-fledged scientific scientific language in Norwegian if we are to counteract the loss of the Norwegian language domain in competition with English in particular. Not least, it is important to make the social responsibility of the labour and industry and the academic education community visible in this context. The construction of a Norwegian language bank is the largest isolated measure notified in the notification. The centre party believes it is essential to have this funded in order to develop adequate software and language technology product in Norwegian. Without this national resource collection, many of the new technologically advanced solutions will become less accessible to the Nordics, and with mainly English-based products, it is evident that the domain loss for Norwegian languages can become serious. At the same time, it is necessary to stimulate the use of new drugs in society more systematically and actively than so far, as there is particular pressure on the use of new drugs. Strengthening international competition in the field of culture also calls for a conscious view of the need to provide substantial public financial support in order to promote new literature, film and performing arts. Purchasing, production and grant schemes must be continued and appropriate measures for the development of Norwegian computer games must be developed. Furthermore, the centre agrees that both the press support and the VAT exemption on newspapers should be continued. These instruments contribute to active stimulation of both linguistic breadth and diversity. There is still a lot of work to be done on documentation of Norwegian language and writing. The centre party looks forward to the completion of the Norwegian dictionary in 2014. This will document the neo-Norwegian writing language, but also the Norwegian speaking language in the form of dialectics from all over the country. Otherwise, it is urgent to put in place a solution to the issue of the collection of site names, and the centre party believes that the proposed step-by-step approach may be appropriate. The public language will naturally appear as a model for others. It is therefore gratifying to establish a standard of linguistic quality in the public sector. Furthermore, in the new State communication policy, there will be an explicit ambition that the language should be simple, correct and comprehensible and in accordance with the applicable spelling and gender equality rules. By establishing a permanent language policy follow-up regime, language policy will be put in place and continuously debated. This message is just a first step towards strengthening the overall language situation in the country. More than 100 actions will be undertaken, and not least the new enlarged Language Council will have a key role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e303	The language message contains many large and small issues, but the issue that may have affected a group most strongly is that the sign language has an official status. Many have talked about it, but it had to be a red-green government to do something about it. I know there's a lot of people here today that this means a lot to, and we can send them a greeting from a total mass. Language is a basic condition of all people's lives. Through the language we experience and understand life, express thoughts and feelings and interact with others. The language provides access to literature and culture and is the key to social participation and success in education and professional life. That is why we need a solid and active language policy, and that is why we announced in the Soria Moria Declaration and in the Cultural Promise that we would pursue an offensive language policy. Now we are presenting the big message Objectives and meaning, and I dare say that there has never been such a comprehensive big document that systematically discusses the Norwegian language situation. I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it from the Spokesman's Chair: this is the most important cultural message we have made during this great period. The public language debate in Norway has often acted as a struggle between book goals and newcomers. Today, language policy must have a wider perspective. The overall objective is to ensure the position of Norwegian as a fully-fledged, civic language in Norway. Unfortunately, some of the comments in the committee opinion still show that it is the old language debate, neo-normous to book goals, that characterizes the attitude. We're in a different situation. We do not have a unilaterally dominant and minor writing language in Norway; we have a Norwegian language that is actually threatened in some areas as a complete and full language. The completeness and completeness of the language means that it has such a status that it can be used in all contexts, and that it has developed a specialised vocabulary that makes it live in all parts of society and in all applications. In addition, language policy shall facilitate equality between book objectives and new Norwegian and shall take into account the old and new multilingual diversity, the need for foreign language competence and the Nordic community. A new language policy must be based on three democratic rights: the right to a national language, the right to a mother tongue and the right to a foreign language. The value of linguistic diversity is strongly underlined in European and international cultural cooperation. All languages are unique expressions of a common human resource of experience. But the trend is towards fewer and larger languages. Never before have we seen a more dramatic language death. Never before has one language dominated such as English now does as international common language in global competition. In Norway, there is also an increasing trend towards the use of English in situations where communication does not require it. Although Norwegian has a size and strength that makes it not considered a threatened language, we should be concerned that important uses can be lost to English. Then it is important that we have a conscious view of the value of our own language, and that we develop a strategy for active language strengthening. We want to provide Norwegian with a full functionality in the short term to enhance the long-term survival of the language. Defense against loss of domain is not to work for Norwegian as a sole language of use, but to develop a parallel-language strategy. However, it provides a clear preference for Norwegian. Norwegian shall be used unless English is necessary or appropriate. There shall be a good reason to deviate from the Norwegian approach as the preferred language of use. But this also requires parallel language competence, that we master English so that we can participate fully in international relations. Having Norwegian as a language of use, using Norwegian where we can, English when needed, is also a good basis for being competent in foreign languages. We need to strengthen our foreign language competence. Getting a new deal in the development and making available of technical terminology in Norwegian is one of the most important things to ensure that Norwegian languages keep up with the rapid development of knowledge that is taking place in an increasingly specialised society. With this big message, the Government has laid a solid foundation for a new strategic language policy. A systematic strengthening of Norwegian in all areas of society, both bookkeeping and neo-Norwegian, shall take place within the cultural promise announced by the Government in 2004, which has led to DKK 2 billion more to culture since then and will continue until 2014. So the demand for concrete action, follow-up and money is no reason to worry as long as the red-green government continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e329	The party of progress, like the Council of State, is very pleased that sign language is now recognised as a full language by anchoring a responsibility for this in the law. At the same time, we have a concern about the last state council's intervention, namely the economy and the phase-in of the measures contained in the communication. The message we are discussing today has more than a hundred priority action points, but no binding financial framework for them. This may pose significant challenges when they are going into the budget, and the Council of State refers to the Cultural Promise only the Red-Green Government is allowed to continue. Would it be that these hundreds of priority action points will be phased in over four years, or will they be in the budget now in the harvest, or perhaps they will already be revised in a few days? And especially in relation to a sign language boost: when does this come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e336	In fact, even earlier, because some of the measures in the communication of languages were already in the year’s budget – 10 million. kr has already been phased in. Some of the projects can be implemented very quickly, others will take longer. The largest single project is the construction of a national language bank. It is a long canvas to bleach and may require some years and at least large investments. Let's do it in every budget. But if the opposition parties are with us in a big cultural promise until 2014, it could give us a corresponding budget increase of 2 billion in the four years we have behind us. So we're thinking about following up the message at all points as quickly as it can be done cleanly and within the cultural promise framework. So just one thing about the ambiguity of the Progress Party: it says that the new witch has been assigned. I guess that really means the opposite of what the Progress Party means. But it might be that you think you're doing a really big favor, a so-called bear service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e345	I very much agree with the Council of State on the importance that we now focus at this crossroads on the relationship Norwegian-English, or at least how the Norwegian language should best have space in the future. I've been calling for the Scandinavian perspective on it. It's like there's a place in the Nordic region between 20 and 25 million people who actually speak a Scandinavian language. In it lies a large resource, for this is about volume. Having a life in a language is very much about having a large volume in writing, speech, movies – in all contexts where languages are used. In Norway we have had a tough language debate for well over a hundred years. Maybe we have something to learn away? Perhaps Norway could take some initiatives in the Nordic community to strengthen the Scandinavian community? I would like to ask the Council of State if he has any thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e352	I fully agree with the representative Olemic Thommess in this perspective, and I also believe that linguistic, and cultural cooperation in general, is much of the basis of Nordic cooperation that we have. Having a culture production in their own language that is exchanged with other countries, in particular: in films and television series in which the original language is provided, with subtitles, is a very effective way of maintaining Nordic language competence. So this is absolutely something we should keep going. Danish and Swedish are in a similar situation as Norwegian – medium-sized languages that are not themselves threatened, but where the domain loss is imminent. So here we can both learn from the actions Swedish and Danish do, maybe also teach them something, and benefit from a broad exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e359	I have two questions for the Council of State. There is one question that concerns what is stated in the message, namely the following: ‘The Ministry expects national newspapers in larger graves to allow the use of new Norwegian in editorial space.’ I wonder how long the Council of State should wait. And if he waits and waits, and nothing else happens, and those who want to write in a new way, are still not allowed to do so, what will the Council of State do? That's one question. The second question is: when it comes to subtitling and interpreting sign language for those who cannot right, what concrete action will the Council of State take to get them the rights they should have to bring with them the news, to bring with them what is happening, or to go and see a good Norwegian film, that it is the text? What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that more people are involved in what is happening in the information society?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e373	Firstly, with regard to the use of newsprint and bookkeeping in the press, this is a matter of editorial responsibility. We have even in this room legislated the freedom of editors, and that includes not only what should be printed, but how it should be printed, which writing language to use. Having said that, I believe that the changed language debate we have now had, where the sketch, the conflict between nynostic and book goals, is much weaker and perhaps no longer so closely integrated with other societal struggles – different groups such as culture/counterculture, centre/periphery, etc. – increases the possibility of using alternative writing languages for what is the main language in a medium. There we see a positive development. But I'm against using economic force to push editors to change the line they want. There's a breach with the editor's poster. Here we have to use positive means, for example. scholarship to good news journalism, because it is often the novice that is not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e380	There were interesting comments about editorial freedom, which I share in and out. I want to ask about the language bank. The language bank is not only a very important bank for research and development but also an important bank for innovation, technical solutions and the development of good business ideas related to languages, which are linked to much of the future. Adding this to the Language Council means adding the construction of a bank related to a lot of innovation to the public. Isn't the Council of State afraid that we are now wasting a lot of public money that could really have been used for innovation, and that could have been a driving force in companies that had found good business ideas related to such a language bank? Isn't it like this that we're wasting a lot of money on something that could actually be driven by business itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e390	No, I'm really thinking the opposite. I think this is an infrastructure, a base, out of which there can be a lot of good nutrition. The problem is that there is not a single actor who can afford to create the database of languages needed. We have to do that together. It's kind of a collective good. So different services, business products, good jobs can develop on that basis. Whether it should be so that we as the public ensure that this is free, freely available to everyone, or whether those who use it to a large extent and create jobs there, should be involved in operating and maintaining at least the services necessary for them to use this database, we will get back to it. I think we have to take a common lift here. It is this which must be a basis, a foundation, for the development of all the jobs that I am absolutely sure of in this area. That's the way of thinking. We provide the collective good that a language base is, and then the companies can create good Norwegian jobs based on it, based on Norwegian language.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e399	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e404	In the new book to Morten Søberg, the Senate that was never there, he told of the first staging representative who demanded to be referred to in a new Norwegian language. It's a bit staggering to stand here today, like the great-grandchild of Lasse Trädal, and processing a big message that establishes the right to use its own goal at any time and anywhere. Objectives and meanings are an important document that gives a good overall picture of the language situation in this country. Important keywords are linguistic identity and linguistic deficiency in a modern multicultural society. Specific measures will provide the basis for a holistic Norwegian language policy. One important premise is that we have two jam-shaped targets. The message determines that the newnork is under pressure, and that important steps must be taken to correct the biased balance of power. Amongst other things, you have to apply a special option to make new Norwegian more effectively equal to book goals. Or to quote the plural, stressing ‘the need for a certain levelling-off of the conditions of competition between bookcases and newcomers’. It is interesting to note that in this area, too, the Progress Party, which writes that they are ‘heat trailers of new Norse’, will leave the market forces raw. They will ‘dissolve the distribution of one target form at the expense of another’. Strengthening neo-neurism requires a lack of action in many different areas of society. I would like to briefly point to some of the items in this message. Other important measures, e.g.: in kindergarten and school, in St.meld. No 23 for 2007-2008 Language builds bridges. The relevance of neo-Norwegian should always be assessed in particular when it comes to Norwegian language. This requires work across sectoral boundaries, within and between departments. For example, each of them: the new perspective of the new digitalisation message? There is a need for good framework conditions in the annual government budgets. Most people have little money and depend on public support. The economic basis for the production and publication of innovative quality content on the Internet must be ensured. In 2013 it is 200 years since Ivar Aasen was born. The message refers to the 2007 budget setting, where the majority say that, towards the 200th anniversary, a person has a special responsibility to strengthen work on new language and literature. It should guarantee that the 2013 language year is well anchored both administratively and politically. This project will be able to highlight many of the required messages. We have a lot to do. The challenge will be to follow up the message in action and in financial terms. We in SV promise to do our work on the basis of a good work programme that was agreed at our recent national meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e423	It's tempting to spend some time on the Council's history in sign language. I think that a little search in the Biggest documents shows that this wasn't something the Government invented or made easy, but I'm very glad that today we've got the sign language into the position it's got, so I'm not going to get into any polemics with the Council of State about it. What I wanted to talk a little bit more about is the Norwegian position and the different challenges the language faces. Some have announced that Norwegian is a threatened language. I probably don't share that view. The reason why it's compounded. If we see 30 or 40 years back in time, about when I was born, there was no one else learning Norwegian in the world. Today, tens of thousands of people are learning Norwegian to use it as a language. Today's youth writes incredibly much more than I did in my youth. In my youth we wrote styles, but we almost didn't write anything anymore. Today's youth are in a digital world, and they are in the world of communication where the writing language is much more important. It also means that young people communicate in many different ways. They communicate differently from different forums they are in. Some people are anxious to see SMS languages in styles, or to use Facebook forms in schools, while today’s youth know that the different forums have different languages. It leads to a greater language awareness and a greater awareness of language complexity. Another thing is that multilingualism is going to become normality, and in a more multilingual world, Norwegian as a language will also be able to strengthen itself, because multilingualism is much more common. And whoever walks around and thinks that the threat to Norwegian is called English, is, to say it nicely, pretty old-fashioned, because maybe the threat to Norwegian is going to be called mandarin or Arabic or something else. Thinking that there is one language that has won is a rather European centered attitude in a globalized world. That's why I think multilingualism, different languages, is going to have far more opportunity in a future globalized world, because people are going to communicate in many different languages, and the intolerance that the Progress Party presents with that it's just their own writing language that applies, I think is going to be old-fashioned pretty fast. And in this is also that our policy is linked to indigenous languages that another representative from the Left is going to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e436	I agree with what the representative Trine Skei Grande has said in this matter, but I would like to say something about the Sami and female language. The communication we are debating today aims to be the starting point for a comprehensive and cross-sectoral language policy, and then it is necessary that this room be aware of the obligations we have in relation to indigenous and minority languages. State authorities have a separate responsibility for the preservation and further development of Sami and female culture, which is also part of the common cultural heritage in Norway. It is important that national minorities and indigenous peoples are guaranteed the right to their own languages, culture and social life, as enshrined in international conventions. I am therefore very pleased that a majority in the Committee, in the form of a comment, has emphasised that living Sami languages are a central prerequisite for Sami culture, and that the same majority emphasises that it is very important for the Sami language action plan to be followed up with satisfactory resources. I hope that this commitment will be re-examined in the budgetary procedures in the years to come. When it comes to the situation of women's language, I'm a little more concerned. Three generations ago, a significant proportion of the inhabitants of Troms and Finnmark spoke feminine or Finnish. This resource was lost as a result of the state's research policy, and today there is a clear lack of or passive female language skills among the female population. The Council of Europe Committee of Experts expressed strong concern in 2007 about the lack of policy pursued by the Norwegian authorities in order to capture the female language. Despite this, the government has not taken sufficient action. Recommendations from the Council of Europe are clear in terms of women’s language. It is necessary to give priority to a structured policy on the protection and promotion of women’s languages in cooperation with language users, in particular on standardisation of women’s rights, improvement of teaching in and on women’s rights at all levels, and an increase in the use of women’s rights in public spaces. In addition, emphasis is placed on strengthening educational material development and teacher training. In the view of the Left, the treatment of the language message provides a very good starting point for taking concrete action to strengthen the language of the woman. In the vote, the majority, with the exception of the Advancement Party, write that women are a very vulnerable language and assume that the ministry will continue to strengthen the language systematically. At the same time, it is clearly underlined that it is the department that has the overall responsibility for women's language and culture. What disappoints me, however, is that it is only the Left, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, who consider it necessary to have a separate action plan for the revitalisation of women's languages at all levels and who promote binding proposals on this in the vote. I find it very strange that the government parties do not support this proposal and cannot say anything but that it is very regrettable. Such an action plan is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e447	As rapporteur of the case, there are many things I think we should have taken up. That's why I'm using the chance of a three-minute insert. One is the power of language, and one aspect that has been highlighted in the committee setting is public communication with its citizens through the public language. I must admit that I have sailed with well-trained lawyers and read a letter from the public, where it was actually impossible to understand the point of receiving this letter. I think it's great when, for example. The Municipality of Oslo has a campaign to use a better language, but also an understandable language, and not a professional language, in communication with its citizens by writing from the public. It's about power and language, but it's also about good folk. It's good people to talk to people in a way that allows them to relate to the information they actually get. This is linked to the overall thinking that I think lies here in the committee regarding both the possibility of subtitling and the possibility of hearing again its own language. This is also linked to the use of kindergartens in the language development of young people. I think it's strange that there's disagreement in some of those areas. Using kindergartens to test young people in language development and also to help them improve language development is very important and incredibly easily invested money for the impact it will have later. Giving it to the kids as early as possible gives them better schooling. Then we're back to the language as a basic base, which I talked about in my previous post. It is a basic base of identity and multilingualism that normality helps us in society to tolerate that we communicate in different languages. In my dream world, kids have an opportunity to choose their own native language as other foreign languages, to learn it with really good quality and get a diploma. But it's also a dream that sign language can be a foreign language in the class, so that not only she with an implant on her ear can be treated her sign language in the same way as the language she has, but also the best friend can choose it as a language in school as any other language. For me, this is a thought of a basic attitude towards language and multilingualism that I think the Norwegian language had been well off, but above all Norwegian students would have had a great advantage in life if they had had this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e454	First to clarify: I think maybe we're talking past each other when it comes to Norwegian as a threatened language. I do not think any language researchers believe that Norwegian as such is threatened, or that the young people in Norway are going to switch to English in their SMS or Facebook communication. What lies in the threat to Norwegian is that it is threatened as a full language, that there are areas in society where there are no longer adequate Norwegian expressions. We see, for example: within the academy that very much is published in English. This is important because one has to be part of international research and education cooperation. At the same time, however, it is important that we maintain a Norwegian professional language. You better understand your own language. You think more clearly in your own language. That's why we say, among other things. the aim must be that when you publish something in English, for example: a doctoral thesis, it must also be a good summary in Norwegian, so that you have to use Norwegian language all the time. The thing about being threatened is that it's not fully worth it. We're going to be aware of that, and we're going to make sure that we have these terms. Business can be another such arena. In the reply I was asked by Molvær Grimstad about how to follow up the sign language. I was not entitled to answer that. We have to do that in close cooperation with the users. But the Language Council can strengthen its competence here. We have to work internationally and make sure that the sign language's position is strengthened there as well. We need to assess the situation of sign-language users in terms of practical arrangements for the use of sign-languages in different areas of society and the formal rights and obligations attached thereto. We also know that new technologies, new ways of communicating, can facilitate the use of sign language in many more contexts. An important consequence of the communication is to follow this up in a good way. I think that this debate shows that the Norwegian language debate has entered another waters. The time for the acute debates and the strong conflicts, I think, is over. We see that both new Norwegian and Bokmål users have a common cause, namely to ensure both writing languages a good Norwegian. On the other hand, I think it's a little strange that some parties here use the word 'force' to teach side goals. We usually don't use the word 'force' to describe other things in terms of curriculum and curriculum and what to learn at school. That's the exact same thing here. If we're going to have a knowledge school, it's going to have to be one of the foundations of a good knowledge school. So the expression "force" I think is a strange terminology.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e465	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2742]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e481	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2744]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e499	We're going to a related topic. Freedom of expression is still subject to discussion both in Norway and in other countries, but the approach may be somewhat different. I hardly think anyone will claim that freedom of expression is threatened in Norway, at least not freedom of expression as an idea or as one of the pillars of our legal system. To that it is firmly anchored in human rights, and now also in our constitution. The greatest danger, however, is naturalization, which is not just about freedom of expression. What gives cause for concern, however, is that we seem to be little concerned about whether freedom of expression really is real, and then I also think whether it feels equally real to everyone in the population. As an approach, I have referred to the infrastructure requirement of the Basic Law § 100, which means: "It is for the authorities of the State to bring matters to justice for an open and public debate." According to the Storing Communication that preceded the amendment to the new Section 100 of the Constitutional Law, public space is to promote the three «social processes of truth-seeking, democracy and the freedom of opinion of the individual». So it's the state's overall responsibility for building up public space so that individuals have an actual ability to express themselves. The freedom of expression Commission stated in its time that the so-called infrastructure requirement could cover a wide range of public actions ranging from school, education, art, culture, public support to organisations, through press support for financial support to media for minority groups. Of course, it could be all of this and more than that. I would like to confine myself here to the importance of the media for freedom of expression, and ask the Minister for Culture, who is most responsible for media policy: to what extent is freedom of expression felt in Norway as real? We are proud to say that we have a free and independent press in Norway. We know that a few decades ago, the newspapers in Norway were owned and run by the political parties. It was also when the NRK was a state-run broadcasting monopoly, and the Stortinget had its annual debates on the programme content of Norwegian national broadcasting. We have no desire to go back to that time. Nevertheless, it must be allowed to ask whether we have now settled in the plight of the opposite extreme. In the 1960s and 1970s there were at least media debates in the Stortinget. Many politicians were involved in media politics. It was, of course, because the debates were also about the content of the media itself. Responsibility for the content is left to editors for the longest time. But then today, we feel that apparently it is just a handful of representatives who are interested in media policy and who are taking part in these debates. The few debates in the UK about media policy are largely only about regulatory issues, about ownership, political advertising on TV, advertising breaks, etc. The debate on more general principles and the long lines are absent. What does this tell you? Well, we stick to what we can call a media-political adhocrate, which is no more than a small elite. Understand me correctly: We have been involved in legalizing the Editorial poster – it stands firm. I'm not out to take back the power of the editors. But what I want to say is that if it's like the press or the media is the fourth state power, why don't we ever debate it any more in the Storting? Why don't we take the time to discuss the role of the media, their power and their social responsibility? For a period we had at least media policy statements with subsequent discussions here in the hall. It's been a while. Society is known to be dynamic. It's still changing. Doesn't that also require a dynamic media policy? But do we? The prerequisite for active and informed participation in the societal debate is free access to a diversity of information and views. The media constitute an institutionalised system of information provision and societal power. In its final report, the so-called Power Survey describes the mass media as the central arena of the struggle for political power – they are more politically independent, but ‘more important, however, in the coronation and deronisation of political and other leaders. Edited publicity requires politicians and other actors to adapt to a journalistic form and to take advantage of the specificities of the media when applying for influence.’ In a chronicle about political culture in the media in the Evening Post on 14 August last year, President Thorbjørn Jagland pointed out: ‘We need a governance political culture instead of a gallant political elite.’ And he goes on to say, ‘No oil fund can help us if we don’t have politicians who do things to think holistically and in the long term. But the interaction between media, opinion polls and opportunist politicians is undermining precisely this.’ State press support and the exemption from VAT are an important part of the infrastructure requirement. From time to time, reports affecting them appear, as the decision of the Language Council that a new share should be required in the newspapers. The direct press support is currently 20 pst. of the country's total contribution, while the VAT exemption amounts to approximately DKK 1.3 billion per year, with the largest amounts being paid to the largest media enterprises. Arne Finborod recently wrote in Today’s Business on how the press support and the VAT exemption came about in 1969. He describes it as a ‘horse trade at the highest level’ and recalls that ‘40 years ago newspapers and politicians lived in a community of fate’. At present, ownership conditions have changed, with so-called professional owners "who supply themselves roughly of the dish in good times without having to set up when it is in exchange". The Christian People's Party and the undersigned have been a defender of press support and VAT exemption, because the purpose of these arrangements has been to contribute to greater diversity in the newspaper media. And still we think it represents part of the answer to what is called the infrastructure requirement in the Constitution. Still, we believe that these arrangements contribute strongly to the Nordics being one of the most news-reading peoples. This does not mean, however, that we are against a review to see if this 40-year-old scheme still has a device that serves the real purpose in a good way. I want to ask the Council of State if the time is not now to set up a new press committee again. However, the hard-to-return demands of the media are a challenge. Today, investment in cultural institutions is expected to have in principle the same return as an investment in an industrial company. As a result, the public interest is easily shifted into the background — economic impoverishment, the dismissal of journalists and the deterioration of media quality. This spring this is particularly topical. But it's not just the return requirements that give cause for concern. Also undue pressure from publishers to editors has become a topic. According to a study by the Trade Press Editor's Association, a number of editors experienced their situation so difficult that they considered cancelling their position. In today’s media reality, it may in many cases be difficult to obtain information that fully illustrates the consequences of policy proposals. For example, immigration and integration are areas where there has been a lot of debate recently. This debate has often been marked by polarization, the use of words that obscure rather than clarify, and the emergence of demonstrations of political opponents. Some have described it as the ‘confrontation society’. It seems like achieving confrontation and finding faults is more important than describing reality. Here, as politicians, we have to sweep at our own door. The tabloidized and polarized presentation may provide entertainment, but does it serve freedom of expression? Does it help make it more real? The answer is no. And how does it affect those who haven't lived that long in Norway? I've talked to scientists who confirm that immigrants in general are multi-consumers in the media. But there is a lot of evidence that much of the consumption is targeting the major international channels and not so much against the Norwegians. This does not necessarily contribute to the integration of Norwegian society. The infrastructure requirement is not least directed at these new nationals. Governments have an unconditional responsibility towards them, both by stimulating more research into the use of the media by immigrants and by facilitating measures to increase knowledge and understanding of Norwegian culture, policies and social life. What does the Council of State intend to do with this? Then the Minister for Culture has also launched a proposal for a media representative and an expert committee to assess this. Later, another variant of this has been aired. I allow myself to ask where this matter stands. Resistance from the Editors' Association and the Norwegian Press Association was recorded. It was feared that this could threaten the system of self-justice. It is understandable that one does not want a state superior or censorship, but that was not the intention. I have noticed that there was not as much resistance among journalists to such an arrangement. I also think it is of interest to have the proposal evaluated, and I welcome the result. The infrastructure requirement is comprehensive. It requires authorities to provide a wide range of measures to ensure that all communities have the opportunity to express their views. I've only touched on some of the many issues. The editors of Monday morning asked the following questions in a chronicle in the evening post on 19 September last year: ‘The traditional mass media slow down and tighten down. Can they at the same time be more open to critical dialogue with readers?’ They point out that the debate on what kind of media we need has to come now. With regard to the media's social contract, one used to be faced with a society that lacks information, they think, and writes: ‘Now we need to shape a media policy for a society where the reader suffers from a surplus of information and a deficit of understanding.’ I believe that the time is ripe for a political debate on this. A debate is also important in itself, although it does not lead to the major changes in the short term. A debate could help us to reflect and better understand how the information society works and how it should be designed in the future. Without debate, no dynamic and timely media policy either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e583	The interpellant discusses an important topic, how we can ensure that the voters can participate in an open and informed public conversation, which Section 100 of the Constitution requires. It may seem that the background to the interpellation is some concrete policy proposals relating to immigration and integration policy, but without a more specific question, I find it difficult to address them. The interpellant addresses a wide-ranging issue, which covers all areas of media policy, and to which it is difficult to answer in a complementary manner during a 10-minute period. As can be seen from the preparatory work for the new Section 100 of the Basic Law, the infrastructure requirement includes a wide range of policy areas which lay the framework conditions for public space and for those institutions which constitute the infrastructure for the public conversation. Large parts of cultural, media, education and research policies can therefore be seen as part of meeting an infrastructure requirement. Firstly, we have laws and regulations regulating the institutions that constitute the infrastructure of freedom of expression. Examples include the Law on Public Library, the Law on Education, the Law on Universities, the Media Ownership Act and the Broadcasting Act. Also rules on editorial responsibility, source protection, violations of honor, privacy, privacy, etc. Come in here. Secondly, we have economic instruments, such as: the financing of public schools, financial grants for the operation of media and financial support schemes for cultural activities and institutions, which are also part of the public conversation. Thirdly, we have laws that give public enterprises the obligation to inform, or the population the right to demand information, which is also part of this picture. The most important example here is probably the Public Relations Act. In this context, I would also like to highlight the country's communication policy. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration recently sent a draft new communication policy to be consulted. This is where it fights, among other things. stipulating that the objectives of the State communication policy are to provide citizens with good information about their rights, obligations and opportunities, to have access to information about their activities and to be invited to participate in policy, mechanisms and services. Since the representative Lånker's question in particular refers to the dissemination of information and debate on policy issues, I will go a little further on the part of the infrastructure requirement relating to media and media policy. The media are a central part of the infrastructure for public exchange of information, views and debate. For most, the media is the main source of information on political decisions and debate on policy issues. The media are involved in providing citizens with a basis for taking informed positions on political and other societal issues. State contributes in various ways to the ability of the media to fulfil this function: By means of the press support and the VAT exemption for the newspapers, the State provides a basis for the life of newspapers that have good reader numbers but are nevertheless not sustainable due to the way in which the advertising market operates. When the Government joined in 2005, it increased the allocation of production grants by 7.5 million. kr. In 2006, the Government introduced a new compensation scheme for increased postage costs. Porto compensations are later integrated into the production grant, with a total of nearly 13 million. kr. The infrastructure requirement implies a specific responsibility to ensure minority groups freedom of expression and the possibility of democratic participation. In 2008, the subsidy to Sámi newspapers was increased by 5 million. kr – or whole 35 pst. – to stimulate the creation of Sami daily newspapers. In 2009, the subsidy was increased by 3 million. kr. The Media Ownership Act ensures that dominant ownership positions in the media sector restrict the real freedom of expression and information in society and that ownership positions are exploited in order to promote their own political or economic special interests. In 2006, the government presented a bill that reversed the Bondevik Government’s liberalisation of ownership rules and ensured that no actor can control more than one third of a single media market at national level. The law on editorial independence in the media came into force on 1 January of this year. The law requires all news and debate media to have an editor in charge of editorial activities and to stand free and independent from the owners in the ongoing editing of the media. The broadcasting fee and funding of the NRK provide the whole population with a basic offer on television and radio as well as a content offer on new platforms such as the Internet, mobile TV, etc. The general public's expectations for NRK's programme offer are set out in the NRK poster adopted here in Stortinget and subsequently in the company's statutes. Under concession terms, the Government is seeking to ensure that private broadcasters assume binding programme conditions, so that limited frequency resources are used for the benefit of the entire population. For example, programme offers are required for minorities which would not be possible under purely commercial framework conditions. By facilitating the digitisation of broadcasting networks, we will ensure universal access, fairer distribution and greater channel diversity. By devoting space to an open channel in the digital ground network, which will release non-profit organisations, we ensure that non-commercial offers can be released into a media image that is largely influenced by commercial forces. These are some of the measures taken by the Government to meet the infrastructure requirement in the media field. However, the correct answer to the interpellant's question is to point out that media policy is only a piece of the picture. The cultural promise, which ensures a cultural offer to all, contributes to the public conversation. The strengthening of the local economy means that schools will be better able to facilitate debates and critical thinking among students. Unbelievably expanding networks for TV, radio and the Internet will help improve the flow of information. These are just some of the measures – the list is endless. Every day we are a step closer to a complete ‘open and enlightened public conversation’. Of course, it's an important debate that the interpellant discusses how the media work. While we have an editorial poster that guarantees freedom of editors and while we need an independent and free, critical press, we should all be involved as social actors in the debate on how public talks are organised and conducted. This is, as the interpellant himself said, a responsibility that is heavy on us as political debaters: how do we conduct our talks, how do we meet critical points of view, how do we accept recordings that go beyond what we ourselves believe? We also contribute, to the extent that the debate is superficial, to peak formulations or perhaps delusions, which make the constructive, enlightened debate weaker. Here, too, we can contribute. But that the media also have a responsibility to ensure that information is provided to the population, that factual debate and information characterise the agenda, and that the entertainment society does not take over in all arenas, there are important debates, which I am absolutely sure the media itself will take over. We're facing the biggest technology shift in the media industry since printing was invented. Digitalisation has started so far. This is going to fundamentally change the way the media work, and it's going to develop, hopefully, new business models. We don't yet know what the future media landscape is going to look like. What we know is that we spend more time on the media than ever -- we fill both work and leisure with the impressions of the media. That is why the media are also more important than ever, and therefore these debates, to which the interpellant refers, are also important debates in this Chamber. Through education, training and cooperation with organisations, we can contribute to quality development also within the journalistic level, that we have good concepts of quality, of factuality, objectivity, etc., that we understand our subject and can develop further. I think we have journalists in Norway who are genuinely interested in doing a good job, and who, if the conditions are set right for it, can do that job in a good way. Having critical journalists, having good media, is also a foundation for the quality of what we do in our professions, both at large and in the government. The fact that the government apparatus is constantly being critically followed by journalists who have the resources and the capacity to dig and ask and find out things that are crooked or wrong is also a fundamentally necessary tool for us to constantly look critically at our own job and do the best possible job. So this is also a very important debate for the functioning of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e638	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I may not feel completely nervous about what was my commitment to my post. However, the Council pointed to a number of measures implemented during the last enlargement period in order to meet the infrastructure requirement of the Basic Law § 100, and concluded its intervention by saying that for each day we come closer to the objective of a «open and informed public conversation». I'm not sure if that's the whole truth, and my question still goes on this: Is it so certain that all of these individual measures, these little regulatory handles, everything from changing post rates and improving the framework conditions for Sami newspapers to the legalization of the Editorial poster – all this is very good, he mentioned several things – only helps to answer the question that I asked? The situation today is that there is a fast-moving trend. Developments, not least technological developments, within the media are raging, and we politicians have big problems hanging in the swings, just to keep up with them. I think it just reflects the situation that very few politicians take the time and care about discussing these media policy-driven general questions of principle that I tried to draw up in my post. It is possible that a good part of these things can be solved with some so-called ad hoc approaches from government and big business, but in general I think a debate should be called for precisely because it is a mission. The Council of State itself was concerned that we have a great responsibility, even as politicians, for how we act in the media. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. But I think the debate that should have been held here in the Chamber on these big lines would have contributed to our behavior, and it would contribute to a dialogue with the media, a dynamic development, which in general might have been an even better step towards meeting the infrastructure requirement. I then record that the Council of State did not take the time to respond to the challenges I presented. I assume it was partly because he had a prewritten post and had not heard what I was going to say, but he gets another chance, and that I will give him now: what about the minorities? How are we going to make sure that their media use and media habits can be felt more in the direction of Norwegian culture, Norwegian politics and Norwegian society than appears to be the case? What about a new daily press selection? It's almost ten years since the last one came, and with the rapid development we've had, it must soon be time for a new one. And what about getting media policy presentations back to this room, as we had at the end of the 1990s, and which I think -- even if they didn't call for the big attention either -- helped put important questions of principle on the map. I challenge the Council of State to take up these things again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e645	The representative Lånker has a burning commitment to media policy, and it serves him honor, for it is an important matter that even more should be engaged in. At the same time, the interpellation in its form of writing was far wider and broader than his speeches from the pulpit, which may more specifically have been more focused on the culture of debate and the possibility in the press of getting to the floor, for example. different minorities. I can repeat all these tools – the representative Lånk knows them well – such as VAT exemptions, production aid, etc. At the same time, we see that media developments have two different features. One is that commercial players are getting more and more alike, where the entertainment pressure to sell advertising is getting stronger. It is not necessarily the case that a diversity of channels gives a diversity of content; on the contrary, it can result in more uniformity. The more important it is that we call about the public broadcaster we have, that we keep one independent, strong actor who has a wide range of radio and television, and also the Internet, and who is not guided by advertising revenue. And in this way it is very important that not only the three red-green parties, but also large parts of the opposition – not least the representative Lånke's party, I hope – are stuck on the broadcasting licence and a solid funding of the NRK. An NRK that became more dependent on other revenues or even was sold and broken up, as the largest opposition party will do, would lead to a poorer Media Norway and poorer opportunities to secure the diverse width of which the interpellant is occupied. So ask the interpellant if we need a daily press selection. I don't think we need a new daily press committee, but what we probably need in the years to come is a complete review of our entire media policy, because the framework conditions within the media are changing so dramatically. We don't even know if the paper newspapers will survive in the future. Perhaps a 250-year-old link between editorial material and advertisements and announcements on paper above. The technology shift may lead to other communication platforms becoming dominant. We know that we are now very close to the Norwegian people spending more time on the Internet on average than on TV. This means that a new platform will be the most used media channel. All of this leads to changed uses and different business lines. I think the local newspapers, the regional newspapers, on paper are going to last a long time. The identity, culture and locality that is built around it will last a long time. But we now see how, for example, the sales papers wear dramatically, and how also large, heavy paper organs in the world pass from paper to net. These are things we have to follow and review as evolution draws this picture of the future Media Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e656	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising a fundamental very important debate on freedom of expression and democracy and the ability of the Norwegian population to participate in the public debate. I have to say that after reading the interpellation, I wasn't quite wise in what direction this debate was going to go, but now I realize that there's going to be a more traditional media debate out of it. Let me, however, bring something that may be a little sidelined, but which I think is important, and that is the technological development that challenges the media and media policy in particular, as the Council of State has now concluded. We know that not least the Internet is as much viewed as TV today. We also see that the newspapers are being challenged by the Internet. We might imagine in the future that instead of sitting and reading the paper, we're going to be sitting with a digital newspaper – a digital newspaper that we download, and that we don't need to get in our mailbox in the morning, but gets directly downloaded on the screen. We don't have to sit at home in our own living room to receive that paper. We can be at an airport in London or in completely different parts of the world and still receive our digital paper. So the opportunities and challenges in this area are going to be significant in the coming years. Lånke mentioned that as politicians we have a responsibility to ensure that we have freedom of speech and that we have a good public debate. Let me then mention the role of the parties in securing the public debate. Because I believe that, not least through the design of our party programmes, we can invite the voters, the people, to participate in and create new policies, and to contribute to the political opinion. In the design of the Workers' Party's programme for the next ageing period, we have tried to contribute to this. Among other things, we have invited to debate through the use of the Internet. We've had consultations with a lot of teams and organisations, traveled around the country and the beach, and that has resulted in more than 8,000 proposals for the Workers' Party's programme. So it has not only been private, ordinary party members who have been allowed to contribute here, but people around the country and beach. And then we see that the web now makes the flow of information definitely better than ever. And we see that one is now in the beginning with social media, which one also believes will be a very important contribution in terms of freedom of expression and the ability of the ordinary citizen to participate in the debate and make his comments and be heard. In the spring we have seen that all the political parties have started to engage strongly in the social media. We see that both blogs, Facebook, Twitter, Orego and You Tube are now becoming quite central to how the population participates on these surfaces, but also that the political parties now communicate in a completely different way with the voters in that way. What's kind of interesting is that it makes new actors come up. We experience that 18-year-olds who otherwise would never have been listened to and listened to in Norwegian society, suddenly in one day can become an important single actor. We just saw a few days ago how an 18-year-old suddenly got a very central importance. It was 18-year-old Even Sandvold, who made it snappy that he got Warner Music's irritation over himself, and was called a "trigger" on Twitter by Warner Music, and it reaped global irritation. It meant that Even Sandvold, who had expressed his opinion that he found it difficult to buy records legally on iTunes, got very much public attention and through that online society was suddenly known the world over because he had irritated Warner Music, but also because he had reaped a lot of sympathy. Some of the most popular blogs and the fact that we now have a completely different online community, other social media, makes new people, new population groups, have opportunities to be heard in a completely different way. I think we also need to take into account in the public debate on media policy in the future that social media too will be an important part of it. Still, there are a lot of childhood diseases, but I think it is important that we politicians take it seriously and contribute to this becoming an important part of the public debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e673	The representative Lånke takes up a very interesting interpellation about one of our most important values that distinguishes us from those societies that are fundamentalist and undemocratic, namely freedom of expression. This is a topic that, as we already notice in the debate, has a lot of pages. It's about value management, it's about laws, it's about financial framework conditions for the media industry, and it's about concession management. I'll touch into a few of these themes. The first thing I've been thinking about is how, at the leading level in Norway, we manage this with the value of freedom of expression. If we think two or three years back about the debate on cartoons, it was a debate that went all over the world, and also in Norwegian media. In this context, I would like a Minister of Culture who was the fan of freedom of expression in Norway and stood on the barricades and told me about what we in Norway define as freedom of expression. But in that context, our Minister of Culture was absent and invisible – one otherwise very visible politician in our society. Similarly, when we were given discussions about blasphemy paragraphs and rules on religious criticism, the generally very visible minister of culture suddenly became invisible and emerged from the debate. You can ask yourself why the Council of State, which is very happy in the media, chooses to do away with every time there is an important debate about freedom of expression in our society. On another topic: we are in the middle of the concession award process within the local radio system, and there are a number of incorporated popular-loving local radios that lose their concessions for the benefit of others who have written good applications and who have been trusted by the bureaucrats in the media surveillance. Such management of our legislation puts freedom of expression under pressure, but is of course also a huge problem for those who want to do serious business in the media industry. Another theme in this area is press support. It is well known that the Progress Party is opposed to press support, but when the press support is first distributed, it must be within a reasonably foreseeable framework and according to objective criteria. That's not the case for a lot of people in this business. There is a system where part of the aid comes as a VAT compensation, parts come in press support, and parts are transferred to the Council of Culture. Recently, we saw that the Culture Council deprived a number of newspapers of their press support on the basis of an assessment that the content did not seem to have been met. Such an attitude towards the editorial content of newspapers is, in my opinion, almost scandalous and can almost be characterised as a state abuse of power against the freedom of the press and the press market, when people in the Council of Culture are to sit and taste judges over different newspapers. I took this up with the Council of State and used the newspaper Norway IDAG as an example, where the Secretary-General of the Norwegian Press Association Per Edgar Kokkvold warned against the decisions taken by the Council of Culture, saying that one should be very ‘careful about hugging what one does not like’. The answer I have received from the Council of State says in and of itself, in conclusion, that the Council of State will keep an arm's length distance in relation to these matters. That's a nice place to stand. But in the case of other cultural establishments, I have never seen the Council of State have any particular arm's length distance – well, it's possible he has it when he hangs at the bar at different cultural events around Norway. We are well acquainted with the very good contacts of the Council of State in this environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e690	This is an interpellation with a slightly open approach, but I am very pleased that the interpellant has put the issue of media policy debate on the agenda. In particular, I am pleased that it is the Christian People's Party that comes with it, because I feel that the Christian People's Party has been a very conservative and, if I'm sorry, a somewhat backward party in terms of the instrument of media policy, and in terms of its approach to this. Here, the Christian People's Party is almost a guarantor of the approach that I also believe the Government stands for. This could also have been a debate towards freedom of expression as human rights, as the Progress Party had so far indicated. There could also be a delicate debate, not least on the issue of television advertising. I'm not picking that track. I choose more to look at media policy. We're in a time of great change. The digital age is around us in a way that I think very many of us in this room may not be entirely able to take over us daily. This is a generation change, not only in terms of technical platforms, but also in terms of who uses them and how they are used. What I think must be an overall objective of media policy, or perhaps a theme in this debate, is how we want to continue the publishing traditions of which we are proud in our country, into a new age, which is obviously going to be about the information society on completely different platforms and in completely different contexts than what we use in everyday life. We believe that we have quite a good, qualified debate. It is true, as the representative Lånke was about – and I think the Council of State was about it – that we live in an information society where the amount of information is enormous. We're going to need someone who can clear, someone who can guarantee quality, and someone who can be leaders. Then I think more in the direction of editorialism and qualified debates. So how do we do this? Here it's the vrienth to find the answers, to say it like that. The debate is very important. It is important to look at which actors we deal with. Firstly, this requires that we have sustainable businesses in the future. I ask myself whether today's ownership law is a law that serves its objectives in this sense, especially in relation to regional ownership restrictions. I wonder if we don't need to strengthen the foundations of businesses, and that is how we have to approach monopolistic issues, which I admit are unpleasant issues, but which must therefore be tried on an ongoing basis. We need to have some performance in the new media. Here we have a debate on copyright, what framework you can have, and – I would like to say this – what ports can be set up, in terms of earnings. We see that the traditional frameworks are under quite a heavy attack, not least politically. After all, several parties represented in this Chamber are running quite hard on and undermining some of the prerequisites that must be there to defend copyright. There are also issues about having an appropriate legal status in terms of cables, software and such things. Once again, copyright is a central issue. Another issue that has been addressed by the Right in the last year is the question of which rights the cable owner should actually have. We have been concerned that there should be the shortest possible path between the user and the creator, i.e. the receiver and the content provider. Then it is important to have an approach on open networks. We have requested an investigation into this for the TV area, but we believe that the principle also applies in a broader context. The council said quite correctly that he did not know what the future looked like. None of us know that either. Then it's going to be difficult to regulate the details. Perhaps it is important that we try through some of these debates to put up some signs far ahead of where we want to. Maybe that's where the interpellant wanted to go. That's something I definitely share with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e712	It's a very important interpellant that the interpellant takes up here today. Freedom of expression is clearly the human right most threatened in our society and in the world community today. It's a right that's threatened everywhere, not just in totalitarian regimes, as the Progress Party said. I very much agree with the Progress Party on the importance of freedom of expression. But total regimes also threaten a number of other important human rights. It is important that freedom of expression is not regarded as the human right of one culture. This is a universal human right that we must retain in all cultures. So to the media policy angle of this. I share many of the comments of Gjuls and Thommes' representatives that new technology is going to be driving in a completely different way in media policy than it has been before. In the past, decisions have been taken on the technology to be used for the dissemination of information in society. It's over now. From now on, technology is going to drift. What is our task as politicians in a new media everyday is to set a framework for how that technology can be used. And freedom of expression as a guide to the new frameworks becomes, in a way, the most important thing. I want to encourage everyone to go in and read the Left Country Meeting's statement on digital rights in a new society. It is clear that from a freedom of expression point of view, it is particularly important to allow, for example, in some places. private law firms address people’s right to have access to the Internet without discussing it as an important issue for freedom of expression in a society. I believe that it is a fundamental right to also be able to connect online, as an opinion, and if you want to be deprived of that opportunity, the police and the courts are going to do so, not the private law firm. With this whole perspective related to new technologies, digital rights and opportunities to communicate, media legislation will be completely different from what we have today. Today, Norwegian media legislation looks a little funny – where we are dealing with property structures in relation to paper newspapers and such, when we know what is really the challenge on the freedom of speech side of media policy. I think it's time, as all the parties here in this Chamber have said, that we have a review of the entire Norwegian media legislation in relation to a new technological everyday life, new debate forums and new media in time. So the question is, what place will the old media have in relation to a new technological everyday life? They'll definitely be there, but they'll probably change in content and change in role in relation to the media we see today. We might get the news value in the future delivered per. screen, while the basic background articles we may still have the opportunity to read on the bed or on the sofa. So you have to stop having the illusion that it's this hall that determines technological solutions. The job of this room in the future is to ensure freedom of expression by not preventing technology from developing and not creating private solutions that suddenly deprive individuals of the opportunity to participate in the public debate, which we now see tending to because we are not aware of how we regulate the digital rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e725	I am pleased to hear from all those who have taken part in the debate that this is an important issue. I feel that in some way I have put forward some of the things that many people might really want to be involved in and debate, namely how we can ensure freedom of expression in Norway. I also thank the debaters for their good input. I particularly took note of the important questions raised by the representative, Olemic Thommess, about how we can in the future take care of the good publishing traditions we have in Norway. I kind of think it's a core question that goes all the way into the center of just what's my commitment as well: how are we going to do it? We're very concerned about the system, about improvements here and there in the different framework conditions for different media. But the last and seventh point is how we are going to ensure that this freedom of expression is as real as possible – not just for a few, but for everyone in this country, including the minorities. That was some of what I also wanted to underline in my article. I registered with satisfaction that the Council of State took up my question again about a daily press selection. Now it is possible – and I think he has a point in it – that we should perhaps do it beyond what was done last time. But let me say that it has been very important for me to clarify the value of the newspapers and the printed words. What we see, not least this spring, is that they are subjected to enormous pressure not least from the online media, but also from different teams in terms of economics, returns, etc., which, in turn, leads to enormous pressure within the editorials, with dismissals by journalists. The result will be poorer quality. I had hoped that the Council of State could also address these aspects. The Council of State said that it is important to call about our largest public channel, the NRK. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. And we're going to fight to keep the license, at least as long as we see it's the only realistic way to finance this institution. But at the same time, I want to challenge the state council on one last round about this with the concession agency, because now we're not going to have anything left of it, at least not in the case of television. On radio and local radio, we have this concession agency, but as far as I have registered, no new concession on TV has been announced – commercial, private, advertising-funded TV. What are we going to do with that? I could also have raised other questions, but now I see the lamp shining. Tomorrow the debate continues, and I'm going to ask the Council of State a question about the development of DAB. I meet a positive and satisfying answer to that question too when the time comes. As we see, there are many openings in this topic that have traveled here. It's possible to find multiple angles of incidence, different angles have been pointed to. I chose media policy because we have a media council, and I think it is important to put words on what has now been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e741	And it was done!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e744	The debate — both the intervention by the inter-pellant and the submissions from the various parties — shows that this is a very broad field affecting many important areas of society. Freedom of expression is fundamental to a democratic society, but freedom of expression cannot only be present by the absence of legal barriers and obstacles to expression; one must have a real opportunity to express oneself. That's what I understood is the heart cause of the interpellant. We know that the media landscape is changing enormously. We're using the media in a completely different way than before. That gives some amazing possibilities. Social media make it possible for everyone to become, in principle, media producers and consumers alike. The ability to express itself – tell their stories and express their opinions – is completely different today than before. It's a democratization, it's an opportunity that we're going to take advantage of. At the same time, there is a huge flow of information that makes it more difficult to find out what is relevant information and what is irrelevant information. You can also risk getting digital class distinctions, so that someone is in this community, and others are outside. So we know that the usual daily press is facing some fundamental challenges. It cuts into so to say all the paper newspapers. You have voluntary final packages, but there may be redundancies in the future. This also makes the media infrastructure look completely different than before. We get to keep up with evolution. We constantly have to look at the tools and all the money we spend to facilitate a good media situation in Norway, because we have to facilitate from the reality that is, based on the technology that is invented. I'm a little bit unsure if Skei Grande's approach, that we're just going to let the technology float and then we're going to stay out of it as far as we can, is a proper strategy. I think we have to be active, so that everyone gets to take part in the technology and everyone gets to be part of the future society. Communication opportunities — the ability to communicate and acquire information — are greater than ever. But justice and equivalence can be deferred. We get one thing pretty soon about political television advertising, which is one of these issues. I hope that the inter-pellant's party is also associated with the red-green parties to ensure an equivalence in the ability to express itself. Finally, about the concession institute: with the digital ground net, there is no longer shortage of frequency resources, which means that we have something to offer a concessionaire in terms of the use of frequencies. We've got another minute on the radio. But it is clear that the day technology change comes there too, and we are going into a digital situation, I think the concession agency will be a fairy tale. It might have some disadvantages. But when we see the problem of enforcing the concessions, it might also have some advantages. So we'll get back to that in the question of DAB tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e757	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e771	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e780	Criminal health services are looking for sanctions that work, less crime and a safer society. Then we have to rehabilitate better, so that rehabilities to new crime are greatly reduced. Good rehabilitation is a challenge with the high number of very short judgments that we have. Good rehabilitation requires flexibility within the framework of condemned punishment, with good means both within and outside prison. Good rehabilitation also requires the systematic implementation of penalties with continuity and the coordination of measures in a seamless implementation of penalties, without the need to shoot between prison and care, and with close cooperation with other activities. The government's return guarantee continues this process of thinking: renewed and integrated into society with the necessary follow-up. Norway doesn't have life sentences, so everyone's going to come back to society after a closed settlement – and they can become your neighbor or my neighbor. Then it is important that the condemned are able to deal with a crime-free existence. The most important pillars are work and housing. Therefore, it is important that we have been trained in all prisons, and that jobs are relevant practice places. But one also needs to get a network, so that leisure time becomes meaningful. Here, voluntary organisations will play an important role. The guarantee of return involves cooperation between the court itself, the criminal services and various relevant partners. It is very important that the sentence itself be involved in this work by being held responsible for its own rendition and given the possibility of self-management. The return guarantee does not grant any new rights. On the other hand, he insists that the court should be able to benefit from his rights in line with those of other citizens. An important element is to start as early as possible with the preparation for release, have progress in soning – this means, among other things. Permits — and living according to the normality principle in prison. Knowledge generally suggests that the settlement of sentences in prison is much more successful in terms of a reduction in relapse than the settlement within the prison walls. This is why the majority in the Committee would like to expand the use of community sanctions, anti-drug programmes and drug programmes with judicial control. Successful return is more likely when the performer and victim have had the opportunity to speak together. Therefore, the message is designed to offer conflict resolution or other build-up actions. I want to stress that this is voluntary. A Joint Committee considers it essential that a responsible person should be in or in relation to all prisons with the primary responsibility for release. This ‘release coordinator’ will have a central role in the return guarantee and must enter at the earliest possible time in the criminal execution. 60 pst. These interventions have a problem with drug use, and the Committee notes that it is positive that more drug use units are coming, and that this should in the long term be in all large prisons. This is a rehabilitation provision for drug addicts entitled to multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The majority of the Committee has asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice to cooperate and to assess whether responsibility for the specialist health services is to be consistent with the health region in which it is established, and not where the sentence is publicly registered, as it is today. It is a joint committee which points out the importance of the fact that once a patient has started a treatment scheme, it may not be that once the sentence has been completed, the treatment scheme loses and restarts in the treatment queue. The Labour Party, SV and Right also requests that the Ministry of Health and Welfare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, eliminate the need to establish own resource departments for deployment with extensive mental disorders, major behavioural abnormalities and easier levels of mental retardation. The Labour Party and SV are concerned that there needs to be clarification when it comes to those who are too sick to be in prison and too healthy to be admitted to psychiatric institutions. There must be a new specific criminal law reaction for this group. A joint committee points out that criminal policy should be based on humaneness, legal certainty and non-discrimination. Rapid criminal response is important, both in terms of people's perception of justice and in terms of trust in the criminal system. It allows the lawbreaker to settle and settle with society – and move on in his or her life. Achieving the reconciliation queue is a key word here and an important element of crime prevention work. Punishment that works is decisive to fight crime and secure society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e814	I would like to start this article by giving praise to the Government for having brought down the atoning queues. The heartchild of Knut Storberget this period has just been bringing down the reconciliation cows, and he has almost finished that. But when we know that he has given almost 500 years in a propitiatory discount – and by this year is over, it will be granted almost 600 years in a propitiatory discount – the criticism comes from the Progress Party. And the criticism lies in the methods of achieving the goal of bringing down the cows. The rose should also refer to the good news that has been presented, even if it does not show up so much new. In debates, there seems to be a lot of difference between the parties, but we are in fact – as the rapporteur said – very much in this communication. And it's very good that we are. The main objective of the Communication is punishment that works — less crime — safer societies. This is something we all want. The only question is, who has the best solutions? Here's where the differences come in again. The Progress Party believes that the Government, with its clear use of alternative forms of reconciliation, is eroding the criminal regime by facilitating the punishment of the perpetrator of a criminal offence, which in turn leads to a minimization of the preventative effect of the penalty. Punishment shall be detention. Punishment is to be experienced as punishment, both by the convicted and by society around it. Whoever has committed a crime has the responsibility to do something about his own crime. This is from the message. Nevertheless, we do feel that some of the measures taken by the Government, such as: the extended use of alternative atonement forms is not taken into account. The Progress Party wants the use and construction of prisons to be extended. We want to bet on closed settlements for those against whom society needs protection. In 2013, we will lack more than 300 prison sites, and the government’s solution is again to expand the use of alternative forms of housing. With this solution, the government signals that it's moving the ransom from the inside out to the community. So to a great and much used word in this message: ‘the return guarantee’. Yesterday I went into a dictionary to see what ‘guarantee’ meant, and that was probably something quite different from what the message says. State Secretary Terje Moland Pedersen tried some time ago to explain the ‘return guarantee’. He said it was not a legal guarantee, but a political guarantee. Anyone who has been involved in politics for a while knows that a political guarantee is not so strongly binding. But the intention of the return guarantee is good – and also supported by the Progress Party. We all want to reduce the number of relapses into crime — give the prisoners good contents of the settlement and rehabilitate them out of crime. Their rights are already there, it's just making it work. Criminal services must be able to cope with these tasks — also financially. We also have to train several officers to ensure that the prisoners have a contact person. Often there is bureaucracy, and the key is also with the municipalities. There are several agencies and departments that have different tasks. Everyone has to work together. They also have to work with the volunteer organisations – it would not have worked without them. It's a shame the government doesn't support a proposal we have with the Right to give the private and voluntary organisations longer term agreements. So for criminal care and psychiatry. The case rapporteur spoke about investigating and investigating. Now it has to stop figuring out. This is an incredibly important topic, which we believe the Government has not done well enough. There will be a lot of talk – debates and groups – and departments that will work together and look at this without finding a solution. Only recently have there been several serious incidents that again show that there are people who are too sick to zone and too healthy to be admitted. They're gonna be throwing balls, and we don't have a good enough offer for them. That's why it's a shame that the government won't support our proposal to put in place our own prison institutions for those who need it, rather than to re-examine. There is a lot that could have been said in this case – I get to get back to it. I hope that many of the measures that we agree on in terms of the content of the compensation will be successful – that the number of relapses to crime will be greatly reduced, that we will have job training and school provision, that the departments will cooperate, and, not least, that we will play with the municipalities and the volunteers. Punishment shall be deterrent, it shall not be contrary to the judgment of the people, and it shall make it impossible to make new crimes under atonement. At least that is the opinion of the Progress Party. I would like to take up with this the proposals in the vote that the Progress Party has on its own or with the Right, and draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 8 is a joint proposal, from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e844	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e847	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough and good review of the matter. It has been raised beyond doubt that the Minister of Justice has invested a lot of prestige in the liquidation of the reconciliation queue. But there's good reason to raise questions by some of the Council's methods and the fact that many prisoners have gained significantly less time-consuming settlement relationships through the transfer from closed to open settlement. On a number of occasions, the government’s unilateral commitment to the establishment of new open prisons has been criticised. It is a recurring problem that Norway does not comply with the deadlines for the use of smooth cell and incurs fierce international criticism. At the same time, it is a reality that custody capacity is often decommissioned and that large police districts are left unattended. The consequence is that the police here need to use considerable resources, and scarce human resources are tied up to accompany prisons that may be a day’s journey away. But Middle Hålogaland Police District and Vestfinmark Police District is not alone to demand increased custody capacity. Failure to solve these problems is unwise, with today's manning shortage in the police. The re-use of existing building stock for prisons makes sense. But I have a strong suspicion that the great overweight of new open spaces in such facilities is motivated by lower costs and faster establishment, as a useful contribution to achieving the goal of cooling. In addition, the Government has started testing electronic home soning to an extent equivalent to a large prison — a reform Right considers that should be reserved for the very youngest offenders. It is in the interest of society and young people to steer away from atoning conditions that act as pure criminal schools. The right agrees that the settlement should be made as soon as possible after the conviction, so that the convicted person is settled and can get on with life. However, the right cannot accept that the decisions of the Court of Justice are set aside and that criminal convictions are offered acquittals contrary to the jurisprudence of ordinary people. It is now almost four years since the presentation of the Soria Moria declaration, where the return guarantee was promised as a primary consideration. In view of this, the guarantee appears to be remarkably incomplete. The government provided the Criminal Service Communication without clarifying and putting in place the needs of resources and basic services such as health services in prison. In a situation over 60 pst. Of the prisoners with a drug problem and/or mental illness, good access to health services is absolutely fundamental. Without such health care, it is not possible to understand how prisoners should be able to move on, master school or work and to live in owner-occupied dwellings when the sentence has been completed. This is the message's final weakest point. It is not possible to understand how the Government believes that the return guarantee can become a reality when a well-functioning health service has not been established in prisons. In the right, we also wonder that government parties will not vote for proposals to help strengthen prison health services and that government parties do not see the need for an offensive to get Norwegian prisons drug free. It is pointless to invest considerable resources in the construction of drug treatment services within prisons if it is not at the same time willing to take the necessary steps to stop them from being smuggled and placed on the market behind the walls. It is easy to understand the frustration of employees in today's situation. On the right, the Council of State today wants to respond to what the Government will do to get Norwegian prisons free of drugs, and we would like confirmation that it is not possible to start the distribution of syringes within prisons, as proposed by the Social and Health Directorate. The return guarantee is like the emperor’s new clothes, and it remains to be seen when and how the various actors will be able to fulfil their intended roles – the municipalities to provide housing, the hub to provide school or job services, the healthcare service to help addicts and mentally ill and volunteers to build new, important social networks. Atonement queue is not a new phenomenon. When the Syse government took over after the Harlem Brundtland government in 1989, then Minister of Justice Else Bugge Fougner spent a lot of time and effort on settlement. Doubling was one of the measures that got more quickly into adoration. The head of the Justice Committee recently wrote in an article that confidence in the criminal system and the criminal policy is weakened by the waiting time before settlement becomes too long. Right doesn't disagree with that. But the Bjørnflate does not skillfully affect the fact that genius in criminal care — with more widespread use of open housing, community punishment and electronic foot-link soning at home — sometimes triggers strong reactions and violates people's general perception of justice. The right considers that the government is on unsafe roads if punishment is not experienced as punishment. Successful rehabilitation requires a combination of firmer frameworks and a proper progress on the road to release, so that the prisoner is best equipped to meet the freedom on the right side of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e877	We know that one in two prisoners will return to prison after a five-year period. Fafo made a thorough report in 2004 on the living conditions of the prisoners who tell us what we need to be aware of in order to achieve a comprehensive criminal policy. The report states that 60 pst. in prisons have two or more living conditions problems. We know that 70 pst. Of the prisoners, more than 40 were unemployed when they were imprisoned. has the upper secondary school as the highest completed education and almost no higher education. The report shows that good welfare policy is a good criminal policy. These figures show that prevention is important to prevent crime. In addition, they say a lot about what should be stressed in order for Norwegian criminal justice to have the important function of preventing new crimes, by enabling the prisoner to choose a life without crime. Crime prevention will make society more secure. In other words, we need a punishment that works. In the big news that we are discussing today, the government is showing the direction of future criminal care. Punishment that works is essential to combat crime and secure society. The government shows in the message that it is responding to the challenges raised by the Fafo report. SV has been concerned that rehabilitation will have a central place in the message. We believe that the main way to prevent repeat crime is to improve content and follow-up during and after settlement. Penalisation shall be individually organised towards a return to society. The provision of work in prisons needs to be improved. In many places, it is characterised by employment, but training must enable prisoners to get a job after they come out. During this period of government, the red-green government has ensured the provision of education in all prisons. As that report shows, few of the prisoners have received training. Such an offer is an important tool for prisoners to master life after atonement. We must ensure the quality of the offer and ensure that everyone is offered an equivalent offer. Since there are many prisoners who serve as short sentences, provision should be made for those who start a training course in prison to complete it after an end of their term of office. The notification shall be made in order, inter alia, to: The principle of normality shall be based on criminal law, i.e.: that provision should be made to ensure that everyday life in prison is largely reflected in society outside prison. This, of course, does not mean that no demands should be made on the prisoners, as the Progress Party seems to read the normality principle. An important measure to increase the prisoner’s ability to live a life without crime is to enable the prisoner to master everyday tasks such as awakening himself, creating lunches and lunches, and meeting precisely for work or education. Many of the prisoners have never learned such skills. If this is not taken into account during the atonement, how is it to ensure that the prisoner masters this after release? In addition to a better follow-up of the prisoners under restitution, it is also necessary to ensure that the prisoners receive an overall offer on release. It does not help with good rehabilitation during adjournment if you do not follow this up outside the walls. It is the first hours and days after release that are the most critical in terms of the risk of relapse. Today, in many cases, there is a ‘glip zone’ between release and follow-up measures in freedom. An inmate shall not be able to be released with only one plastic bag in his hand, without a job being done in cooperation with the inmate and the services concerned outside to ensure the basic need for release. We in SV are pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the Government's proposal for a return guarantee. The government’s return guarantee means that the criminal service shall be responsible for the identification of the need for and the right to services as soon as the judgment is received, that information on the needs is forwarded to the department providing the service and that this is done so early that the establishment has the opportunity to organise the offer in good time before release. It is essential to designate a person to whom the prisoner may be responsible for coordinating the release work, a release coordinator.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e894	The activities of criminal services are based on five main pillars of which there is a broad consensus in the Committee – what the legislator has said is the purpose of the punishment, humanistic humane vision, the principle of legal certainty and non-discrimination, the principle that convictions have settled when the sentence is sonic, and the principle of normality. One of the most important things in the criminal justice system is that the prisoner through the ransom is able to return to society without repeating criminal acts. The return guarantee shall close this ‘glip zone’ during the first hours and the days following the release. What happens the first time after atonement is of great importance to whether the released person succeeds in establishing a new life without criminal acts. A former drug addict who has become drug-free during atonement has little chance of continuing a drug-free life if he is dumped in the same environment as he came from. It is our hope that this guarantee will also, in reality, lead to better coordination and adaptation of measures and better follow-up of individuals. In St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, on effective penalties, underlines the importance of a comprehensive follow-up of those who have zones or who have zoned. The Communication clarifies the importance of non-governmental organisations in this work. If we are to succeed in rehabilitation and reintegration in society, we are totally dependent on the voluntary organizations. They can often contribute to a better arrangement for people who are not completely A4. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee also determines this. The Progress Party and the Right promote proposals to facilitate longer-term agreements in cooperation between criminal services and private non-governmental organisations. The Christian People's Party is not in the committee, but supports these proposals today. The Church's Social Service is one of the actors in the voluntary sector who pursue follow-up work to adults who have a background in crime and drug abuse. The follow-up department has 10 activities which are run in a combination of employees and many volunteer workers. Crux Follow-up Centre in Sandnes is one of these institutions. Crux has four employees and about 15 volunteers. These days, an agreement is signed between Crux in Sandnes and the South West Regional Criminal Office. Crux wants to step up efforts in the follow-up to persons during and after prison — in prison or in the context of voluntary care. To achieve this, they are dependent on increased public support. It is agreed that non-governmental organisations are very important partners in bringing convictions back to society. The Christian People's Party expects this to be reflected in the government's priorities in the government budget. It is now time for good intentions in the communication to become concrete figures in future proposals for the state budget. The paper on criminal services also emphasises the need to strengthen contact with family and close relatives, among others. through parental guidance and life courses. We need to ensure that projects that validate the prisoners to a life outside the walls are continued and further developed. I would like to mention a specific project, ‘Adam – where are you?’, as an example. The family protection office in Egersund has worked closely with the Åna prison. They include: run two father groups in prison as part of the project ‘Adam — Where are you?’. It was a three-year project. The project was supported by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs. The project period was over in 2008 and no funds have been allocated for the continuation of the project beyond the project period. They planned to further develop this work and not just leave it a project, but a permanent work. Unfortunately, they have not received the funds to continue their project. The project enters one of the areas specified by the Government as a bet area. I ask myself, what is the point of having projects, when they do not continue when they are successful? The minority have some suggestions that the Christian People's Party has also been concerned about. In addition to the proposal on longer-term plans for voluntary organisations, I would like to draw up proposals to strengthen the research on criminal services, on the strategy for combating drugs in prisons, on the review of health services in prisons and on measures for mentally ill prisoners. They are all good proposals supported by the Christian People's Party. In concrete terms, then, we will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e911	Security is one of the most important values for people. Not least are older people occupied with it. However, it is also one of the most important issues discussed by young people — security and criminal justice. Criminals must be punished. Here it has always been stated that it must be firm, and it follows up the current Minister of Justice. This means that a person is deprived of liberty, but it also means that those who have been detained are deprived of responsibility. One no longer has responsibility for his own situation. When one then comes out of prison, one must go from having had detention and detention to having full responsibility again. It is a great change of pace to go from not having responsibility to getting responsibility for, among other things. something that is so simple as to cover income and to deal with expenditure and the life situation in which it is in financial terms. The centre party is very pleased that the Minister of Justice is now focusing on rehabilitation in the final phase of soning, so that one has the best chance of being a useful person when one comes out of that situation. The Minister of Justice said — and the experience is — that the role and function of prison has been such that it quickly goes wrong after release. Too many of those in prison are left in prison. There's a lot to pick up at a track change, as the Minister of Justice has called it. The prisoners are very different. They have different motivations — some are very motivated to get on the right track. They have different life and work experience. It's a very heterogeneous group. But there are many who will come out of crime and want it in their innermost. My experience is that those who want to get out of it are just like the rest of us. It's based on a coming out and becoming a useful person, a few sea pints, one has to show what a person is doing and get respect from the environment by saying, Kari, you've done a good job, we're looking up to the job you've done. It promises the whole human being, helps you to get out of a situation that is degrading. I have my own experience as a warden at Hassel Prison, an open-ended prison and work experience. From that experience, I have to say that if you give the prisoners useful, meaningful, normal hard work – and I underline: useful, meaningful, hard, ordinary work – there are a lot of people who respond positively to it. Like the rest of us, the inmates have to do something that they know is useful, not kind of work. I read the message so that we will get more of this, not less of it. What it's natural to have less of is course and kind of work. One has to go back to some basic issues: that many prisoners are like the others -- that's what you need. After settlement, employers are needed who want to give former prisoners a chance — a chance of getting a normal salary, which is usually paid on a flat-rate basis. In order for the employer to give it to them, there must be cooperation with Nav in order for the employer to receive a wage subsidy, and there must be a link between the benefit he provides and that of the employer. But the prisoner gets a general income. Think about it! Many have never had a common, good income. The public needs people in private business who want to contribute to this. There are many ditches to go in for an intruder, small tue can roll big load. The former inmates are comparing to fragile plants, they need someone to take special care of them for a period after release: get the good examples, get a new content in the soning, get a criminal custody in freedom that practices some of what the minister and I have said here. Then there is hope that those who come back will be fewer than we have so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e930	If one removes the rhetoric, it is a fact that there is a continuity in the view of criminal execution that has now been the attitude of a series of Norwegian governments. That the sitting government takes hold of this and processes it some step further, is positive. The main features of this are that implementation should be humane, flexible — but in some cases strict. There's a huge difference between the majority of those who are inside -- the ones I might call the tired -- and the group I call the stupid guys. Everyone who works in Norwegian prisons knows that difference, and I understand that the government does it too. We in the Left essentially share the views expressed in the committee's position, including those of the Government. I just want to encourage the government to look specifically at the small, demarcated group that I call the silly guys, for their possible misuse of a system – and we have had cases of that – affecting many others. It's hard to do it, it's about getting a differentiation. With regard to that differentiation, I am very proud to be able to see – as I am sure the current state council is also – that we in Norway have a good education for those who work in prison, and that is what we need. I also believe in what it says here, that instead of dreaming about a college, you make a relationship between the education that KRUS is talking about, and you want to plug it into a reasonable bachelor's degree if you want to build on it. I believe in that combination. I think it's very important that you have a level education with pride. I have been to a country where the police have not dared to send anyone into prison because they have been corrupt. This is not the situation in Norway, and there is every reason to be proud of it. There is also every reason to be proud that prisons have maintained and further developed a good education system. It is a crossroads of thought that it is now being built up within parts of the care system, e.g. within Health Southeast. It is a crossroads of thought that the Minister of Justice, who stands for an incredibly good line here, has government colleagues who are building up school offerings in long-term drug treatment. I'm not going to spend the time here today in the soulless language used by Health South-East when you talk about this – it's completely beyond the reality of people with drug problems. They need help, they don't need to be dealt with in a legal business-economy professional language. In this respect, I am also pleased that the debate on children in prison has fallen to the level it has. No one wants them between the ages of 15 and 18. We know that there are people who do it, fortunately fewer and fewer. You have departments in some prisons -- we know you used to. One like me, just like the Minister of Justice, has visited all prisons, so I've also been to Larvik prison. I know about the nuances and differences in this life – I understand that we are there, and I understand that you should also have a neat relationship with child protection in terms of how you want to do it. I also share, as I underlined here, the view that the smallest group of prisoners, namely women, also receive a real offer and arrangement. So it's great that someone wants a return guarantee, or what we call it, to get out of this system. In practice, it is a matter of cultural massage, long enough for the various levels to lower their shoulders, so that social services, navs and criminal services meet. How to find these losers in life's everyday life, I don't know, but I have at least one experience that I know has worked, and it's the Church's Social Service BARM Centre with one or two employees and a team of competent volunteers who become part of the migration for those who are going out of closed institutions and find life out there, whether it's housing, the Nav system, or what it is. That is why I am a strong supporter of the proposal made by the Progress Party and the Right. I have e.g. visited the BARM-centre at Hamar in its time, an excellent Norwegian construction. The voluntary system makes parts of the public lower its shoulders in such a way that it benefits and helps those who need it. I also think it is important to look at healthcare. We have had some situations where professional secrecy in a senseless way has led to the loss of life in Norwegian prisons. We can't have it that way. I think it's positive that it's also taken up. Almost finally, I'd like to say that I think we might need more enclosed spaces. We know that the care situation in Norwegian prisons is under pressure, we know that our self-commitment not to allow people to sit on smooth cell for a long time is broken many times, and I guess the government remembers its own comments about Salt Prison from some former budgetary context. So finally, with these words, the left will say that there's a lot of good in this message. We think it is positive that it is promoted with the glow that it is done by the current government, but we will also vote in favour of the five proposals, No. 1 to 5, submitted by the Party of Progress and Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e951	I'm not going to fail to say that this big message does contain some of what I see as the most important thing we can do to bring down the crime in Norway. It is my hope that the debate on criminal policy can be turned against this. I think the government can put solid results on the table in terms of the efforts in the criminal justice system, mainly because we have a lot of people out in the criminal justice system who have done a great job in recent years. There is reason to extend a great deal of thanks to them all, both for raising the content and for doing something about what has been annoying, namely the line we have entered Norwegian prisons. Luckily, that line will be terminated soon. It is with a little wonder that I hear Right comment on that very question, because when the Right left the government offices, the queue was close to 3,000 – now it is soon gone. This is mainly due to the fact that 400 new places have been established – it has taken away from this. It will also facilitate the situation with respect to custody. But those who are to be credited for it are primarily the staff of the criminal services, who in my opinion have really taken a roof, and who are now ready to concentrate the efforts around the queue out of Norwegian prisons, and better quality, so that we get the promise that is needed so that people don't come back. In this sense, it is not to be the best friend of criminals – as the Progress Party likes to call some of us – to make qualitative offers inside, whether it is education, drug treatment, housing provision, or to build social networks with a view to creating better quality of life and preventing future crime. This message discusses how to develop the most stringent coercive agent we use against people. Then one must also be able to say, as the report does, that this is about the kind of human values on which society is based – it is about the quality of life of people who are in a difficult situation in their lives, but it is also about society having to get more out of the resources we use, so that we see an effect on the other end. Today early I had the pleasure of being with great inmates and great employees at Bredtveit prison. I know that Hanne, a son of Bredtveit, now sits in the diplomatic booth – and I would like to hear it: there are so many possibilities, such as that. Hanne is a good exponent for. Long sentence and problematic circumstances, but she gets into criminal care and thrives in the sense that she is contributing to other prisoners by establishing an activity room and is now in Bredtveit prison in the process of taking a professional letter as an activist. I am convinced that it is the kind of thinking that helps us to bring down crime and create a better life for Hanne, and also for others. Many of the prisoners, and employees, include: Bredtveit shows that it is possible to do this. Now that we're in a situation where the quantitative is so affordable – the queue is gone – we have good opportunities to really get hold of this. There are two elements of punishment that are important at a time when we actually want to increase the level of punishment. In terms of violence against women – killing and rape, clear signals that will probably also come from the Storting when we debate new criminal law now in ours – we must not forget that the reaction must first of all come quickly. That's why it's been a matter of power for the government to build up the reconciliation queue, so that people get a response right away, whether the punishment should be long or short. That's when it works. In many cases, it is actually more important that the reaction is fast than that it is strict. It is also important that you have completed the duplication. It's important that we get the coating down in prison, so that the employees get more time for each operation. It is also important, of course, that we have now abolished release – we will take the last remainder on 1 June. That's why the four points that now stand are a work order for all of us, and we're on the go. Now, we're building drug-restraint units in prisons, so we're going to have a total of at least nine in this year. That's very good. That we get work measures, that we've got education in place in all prisons, I think is a very important effort for us. And the fact that you now also receive Internet-based education is certainly important, as well as that people should not be released for homelessness. Then it is my hope that when Hanne is released in 2010 – it is well in the summer – there is good reason to wish her good luck. I am convinced that she has the best chance of success.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e969	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e972	Electronic control or home soning is a two-year test project initiated in six counties and to be evaluated. For a while, in the NRK, the representative Ingrid Heggø said that this arrangement should now be extended to the whole country, and that there were several convictions that would receive such compensation. A few days later, the committee leader, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, was out in the North Lights and said exactly the same thing, that this scheme was now to be extended to the whole country. Just before Easter, I asked the Council of State whether it was such that regulations were in place to extend this scheme to the whole country and not just the six states. The answer from the Council of State was that this was not the case. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Is it the Council of State that is right not to extend this scheme? Or is it Ingrid Heggø and Anne Marit Bjørnfacen that are right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e985	I am very pleased that both the representative Heggø and the representative Bjørnflaten have great ambitions and visions regarding alternative reconciliation methods. It's absolutely crucial. Now we have said that we should have electronic housing at home in certain test areas in the country. I think it's natural that we're waiting to evaluate it before we decide how fast we're going to go out. But what we are already seeing is that this type of action helps to increase the quality of soning, helps to give people the opportunity to work, connect with the community, possibly getting drug treatment, and, in turn, contributes to lower crime. If it is that you still want to see so good results of this as you have seen, among other things. in our neighbouring country, we can't sit and watch that it will only apply in a part of the country. Then, in the name of justice – and in the name of the fight against crime – we have to offer it to more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e992	Truls Fyhn is quite right that something is completely wrong when mentally unstable people fall between two chairs because the law does not provide the basis for health services to follow them up or for the prison system to follow them up. The Council of State said in 2006 that he had a solution and would make suggestions for it quite soon. After all, we expected a solution in this area to be presented at the time of the notification. One is that it's incredibly unworthy of these people that as a society we can't get a hold of this. The second is that they place considerable disadvantages on their environment – not talking about those who commit so serious crime that they become killers. My question to the Council of State is: When can the Storting expect the Government to come up with proposals for legislative changes or for what can be a solution for this group of mentally unstable people who commit serious crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1001	If the Right Representative Elisabeth Aspaker thinks we're going to solve that challenge with just a bill, and then we're going to close the hole, I think she should take another round, to put it nicely. First of all, we have problems about people committing serious criminal acts without having been in contact with either treatment systems or criminal justice, or for that matter has been convicted before. Most killers are in such a situation that they have not done such acts before. It's hard to predict. We've had a clear process for those who have a plagued behavior, and who fall between two chairs. The representative is well aware that we have just had a hearing with the Mæland Committee – and that is what the Government is working with. We're going to get to Stortinget with appropriate legal measures as soon as we can, just to seal that hole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1010	First, I want to thank the Council of State for their commitment both to the message and to the contribution today in view of the resources they have, and the opportunities they have for a positive life and to become a positive for society and themselves after reconciliation. Hanne and all the others in Norwegian prisons can, after being on the minus side of Norwegian society with the strictest punishment that a society provides, become resources in society. It is a vision that the Christian People's Party supports, and to which we are committed to contributing. That is why we are a little surprised that such projects as ‘Adam, where are you?’, which are about the relationship between children and father in prison and the building of a network and maintenance, constituting and strengthening these relationships after settlement – a project that is successful, that is desired and where there is both competence and experience – is stopped. Can the Council of State, in connection with the State budget, promise to continue this work, which is so good and which builds up a positive life for the prisoner?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1019	First of all, I just want to state that I think it is good that all parties in the Stortinget have joined many of the main principles of the message and – as the representative Tørsdal now points out – what kind of valuable view and anchor we should have in terms of punishment. This will give you a lot of legitimacy for your message and actions. I'm glad. When it comes to the special project that the representative pointed to, it is – I don't hide it – in the middle of the core area of our commitment. We believe that maintaining contact with the family is very important. I cannot deal with this matter here now. I ask you to understand that. But with regard to the representative Tørersdal's request to look at this matter again, I will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1028	I've been from the pulpit expressing, and I'm going to repeat it now, that the Council of State should have commended for all that's happening on the soft side of criminal care – on the very, most of them. So I'm not going to ask questions about that. I choose to ask questions about the phenomenon that I've called 'the lure guys', the ones that we know from about. five years ago, when they were in an open institution and engaged in organised criminal activity. We know that for a few years, people who used the Internet put there in a way that was not as the Council of State described, and that I fully share, but who used the Internet simply to plan their own flight. I'd like to hear the council reflect something over this desiderate smallest group of those who are inside, and as I call them the fool boys. My question is: does the Council of State see that they are now being cared for in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1035	I'm very happy to have this occasion, since my post didn't make room for it. I think we need to bet on the quality of the big groups that go out and into prison, that need more quality in their lives. It is a prerequisite both for the legitimacy of the whole system and for social security that we are, in fact, clear, strict and clear to the small group that Mr Dørum is bringing forward. I believe that the bet in the message gives us room for it, because you differentiate more, and you also get the capacity in the closed stations to do that kind of security work. There is no need to underestimate this, either in relation to the question of quality elements such as leave and check, or in relation to the question of differentiation in relation to who you are with, etc. I think we're going to be better able to do that job when we bring with us the first element that I drew out. I would also like to say that the construction of Halden Prison, which is to open next year, will increase the chances of criminal justice when we get over 220 new, closed places.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1042	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1047	I want to start by giving praise to the Minister of Justice – not because he is a good minister of justice from my own party or from my own county, but because he has the ability to raise the debate on how we will in the future punish in public space, in such a way that it has created commitment far beyond these walls and beyond the walls of the building. In fact, students in high school and people I meet in the community are concerned about this. Even the tabloid press has sometimes taken an interest in this message. That's very good, and we need that. If we succeed in this, it will be the most important single contribution to reducing crime in Norway — when we know that prison inmates have a relapse rate. In that perspective, I'm surprised when the representative Horne says there's so much consensus, but at the important, central points, there's a real disagreement between the left-hand side and the Progress Party. It can be compared that if you have a bathtub that runs out of water because the tap is open and the drain is close, the propulsion part will still put up the drain, while we will close the tap first. It makes a significant difference. I just want to start with it before I go over to what's closest to my heart, the drug situation. The 2004 study of Fafos shows that 60 pst. in prisons have drug problems. Most of them also report that they are polydrug users, while at the same time having problems in several other areas of life. Several major Norwegian health surveys in recent years have shown a clear link between drug use and other health problems. In the transition between the needs identified in prisons and outside services, there is not always a context. This also showed Einar Ødegaard in the SIFA report when he found very positive results from the Stifliner project at Oslo prison. There's a project between Oslo Prison and Tyreli. The project has been in operation since 1991 and has had very good results. I am particularly pleased that last year the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health found room in the budget to start up a similar project at Bredtveit, so that we can now also make a good offer to the girls there. The public has struggled to get in position to help the girls, both within the drug field and within the criminal justice system. I believe it is absolutely essential that we now get started, also in relation to the girls' everyday lives. I am pleased that the message states that in the coming years, the anti-drug strategy will be based on an increase in the number of drug treatment units, based on cooperation between criminal services and other actors. It will also provide a better back-up after a break. The evaluation of Section 12 of the Penal Code and the commitment to alternative criminal responses are also based on the idea of cooperation between the criminal justice system and the provision of treatment and follow-up. This is an important pillar of the message that will provide better rehabilitation, both from crime and from what is too many the primary problem, namely drug use. If we can't stop it, we won't be able to reduce crime either. That is why I am very pleased that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health have been concerned about this in the reporting process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1063	In a progress party in the Passover in VG, we read the following: "The red-green government says, "Let the prisoners go, it's ours." And it won't stop there. The red-green government isn't busy helping you if you've been exposed to winning crime. The red-green government is more concerned with the rights of the criminals than with the victims, we can read in the same ad. It is not new that the Progress Party presents the truth as something quite different from what it is. It is not new that the Progress Party is seeking simple symbolism solutions. Nor is it new that the solutions of the Advance Party in the field of justice that in other areas of society will lead to a more unsafe society. Poorer progress in housing and fewer leavers will lead to poorer return to society. As a result, a number of people will not be prepared — trained — for the meeting with society on the day they finish the atonement. What choices do they make — without a good network around them, consisting of people outside the prison walls, and without experience other than prison life in recent years? We know that the choice that most people will make is the way back to crime. That is why the policy of the Progress Party is an unwise and unsafe policy. In the VG advertisement, the Progress Party claims that the red-green parties adorn the reconciliation queue – another untruth on the part of the Advance Party. The reconciliation queue goes down because we have done what we said we should do, and as the previous government – which was largely supported by the Progress Party – did not. We've been building nearly 400 new settlements in the last four years. Soon a new large prison with 251 seats will be ready in Halden. We've promised to remove the reconciliation queue, and we're approaching. At the last count, last week, the payroll was not 2,900, as when we took over, but down in 278. Now it's only weeks before the reconciliation queue's gone. And not enough with that: 1 June we remove the remainder of the early release scheme that the previous government introduced. Justice policy is demanding, as it demands that you have more thoughts in your head at the same time. That's why we're building up the capacity of criminal services while we're taking a power cap to improve the quality of compensation. Better education, better job opportunities and a close follow-up where health, shelter and housing are core elements, lead to better preparedness for prisoners to face their lives after apologies. It will result in less crime. I have to say that I squirmed a little when I heard that the Right accused us of promoting genius in justice policy. Then the representative of the Right cannot have read the new proposal for criminal law. In the new penal code, the Government proposes significantly stricter penalties. They increase by one third compared to the current level for, among others, rape, murder, gross violence and assault on women and children. Nor are we waiting for the new penal code to come into force in 2011/2012. We are clear in the message that we want this to have an effect even after Storting's treatment now in ours. This is the true version of the Red-Green Justice Policy. That's how the red-green majority creates more security.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1098	I realized in the last post that the campaign has begun. For my part, I tried in my first post to show where it's actually common lines, and I'm going to keep doing it. Prisoners and drug addicts are very good, and there is a good idea both of drug programmes and of judicial intervention. What really worries me is what doesn't happen in the health field. What worries me even more was that when Health South-East – Health Largest – sent out their bids a few years ago, and we had a debate here in the Chamber, they finally managed to squander the school offerings, because you have to go out in the world with a little modular letter. A stressed person shall go out and find his modular instruction. You're squeezing out your school offerings. Then it has been found that you should not have long-term treatment, although most people know that those who are struggling with addiction and mental problems have to be followed up for a long time. In addition, you have shared the big Oslo system with its capacity across the whole of Health South-East, and that's good, you have to share it, but it also shows how much is missing. So we know that we're facing the toughest and worst number of deadline breaks in relation to the specialist health service for those who have a drug problem. Had people with heart problems or whatever it was, experienced something like that, we had a rebellion. On behalf of those who are struggling with a rush, and who are referred to, when the delay is there, to wander off the farms on their own to find the phone for offer somewhere in Eastfold, I have tried it. There you find a nice person who tells you what you can do, but we know that most people don't make it alone. That's why it's great to have a deeply engaged Minister of Justice. I know that Knut Storberget means everything that's standing here. But it's worrying that what's happening in other areas is not related within the same government constellation. I'm not going to take that out politically. It just shows how much is needed to make changes for those who struggle most with life, to give them a chance in reality. I just want to cheer on the Council of State, in the sense that when he has a colloquial group with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, he will probably be able to do so with considerable intensity. I choose to do it because it has been part of my life experience in other parts of my life to walk with people who have found closed doors. I know a lot about the fact that the systems sound beautiful on paper, but are not like that in everyday life. That is why it is fine with all the things about coping with life, fine with what it says about helping people out of drug addiction, but it is absolutely necessary that the health system set up in such a way that the justice system that this communication and the committee provides today is provided in practice in everyday life. Here are some of the toughest things we're facing. One of my moments was when employees in Kongswinger prison had been learning about ADHD, and a person for the first time in his life got help. This mentality can be proud of the justice sector, but it must infect other areas of society so that those who are struggling are given a chance. I'll do mine, and I expect the Council of State to do its own, but I needed to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1111	In Norway, we do not have life sentences. Every son in Norwegian prisons can become your neighbor when they're done. The answer is therefore simple for me and for the Workers' Party: We have to carry out a punishment that works, and that causes people to be rehabilitated to live outside the walls in the best possible way. A group of prisoners that needs special attention are women. Although women make up half of the population, they are a minority in prisons. We know that female prisoners have an accumulation of living conditions problems, among other things. poor physical and mental health. Many are addicted to drugs, and many have traumas from sexual abuse or difficult growing-up conditions in violent and alcoholic homes. I'm glad we opened the Stifliner project at Bredtveit. Those who have children have problems getting involved in their mother's role as inmates. It is important that we make it possible for children to have contact with their mother, but this must be done on the child’s premises and with the child’s best starting point. The message wants to facilitate better visiting rooms and homes that can help maintain contact with family and networks during accommodation, which is important in order to cope with the day-to-day situation when one comes out again. Women's zones are on average shorter than men, and the content of the compensation must be posted thereafter. If rehabilitation is to work, it is important that we have a wide range of work opportunities in prisons. What women have been offered has been, to a large extent, gender stereotypes of work such as cleaning and nursing. This does not take into account the different needs of women for work training and qualification. The message provides good guidance for a change in this area. I am happy to hear the story of Hanne from Bredtveit, who shows that there is a lot of good work in Norwegian prisons. But one challenge is that women are few in prison, so getting progress in the settlement, going from enclosed to open spaces and transition homes, is not as easy. We have to keep working on getting into a good system of progress for women as sons. A study by the Swedish Crime Prevention Research Committee shows that formerly convicted women between 24 and 44 years of age who have been convicted of winning offences have a relapse rate of 81, and in drug cases it is 79 pst. There is reason to believe that the figures in Norway are the same. This message provides a good input into a crime scene to reduce the number of relapses. Finally, we are approaching one of the goals we have set, that prisoners should not be released with one day's notice and with their prospects in the plastic bag they have in their hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1134	There are differences in the policies of the Progress Party and the Government, but it is also important to bring forward what we agree on. The differences lie in the use of other types of bonding. When it says that punishment is to be detention, punishment is to be experienced as punishment both by the convicted person and by society around it, punishment is to be dissuasive, it is not to be contrary to people's judgment, and it is to make it impossible to make new crimes, the extension of alternative forms of reconciliation to which the Government refers constitutes a difference in relation to what is in the Party programme of the Progress Party. The chairperson of the Committee boasts that the Government has built detention centres in the last four years, but there are several open places. They have used domestic sonars, and they have also increased the use of community sanctions. No one disagrees that you should have an offer when you son. There has to be a good rehabilitation, you have to have a content in the deposit, and you have to have an after protection in place when the zone is finished with the deposit. But when it's given almost 500 years in a propensity discount – when the criminals don't pay the penalty they've basically received, but release early for new ones to get in – then it's against people's sense of justice, and that makes the councils the best friend of the criminals. The rapporteur himself said that rehabilitation with such short sentences is difficult. Then it's important that whoever's going to pay a penalty pays that penalty, so that he gets the rehabilitation he needs, and does not come back to prison. I cannot keep this post without mentioning the victim and the family. We're so busy getting the criminal back to society. But what about the everyday lives of the victims and their relatives? Do they have a return guarantee? A while ago – or quite a long time ago actually – there was an article in the Magazine in the newspaper about a bank manager who had ruined his life. Stig is done with the solution. He doesn't regret anything. But Thor Einar is dissatisfied and can never go to work. The victim says, "I kind of got a lifetime while the robber is considered to be rehabilitated and released again." The criminal says, "He's the bank manager at Nærbø... I haven't sacrificed many thoughts. I'm done with all that." Then it is important that we also think about the victim in this case. It is important that the victims also get a sense of dignity and an opportunity to be heard in such matters. It is a pity, therefore, that the Government cannot support the proposals that we have in relation to giving the victim and his family a right to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1147	I didn't get time to say anything about the age group aged 15-18 in my post instead, and I'll take that now. The starting point is that children should not be put in prison. Prison sentences without conditions must be the exception for children between 15 and 18 years of age, and should only be used where child protection has tried all the measures that are available to them. We can't be aware that his child is in Norwegian prison on the same terms as an adult. They get a contact network among the criminals, and they go the so-called criminal ball. However, I would like to add here that they have made a great effort in Norwegian prisons for this age group as well, and have come up with special measures. This youth action we talk about in this message is a new type of transitional housing that has no resemblance to juvenile prisons 40 years ago, or the working spheres 80 years ago, except that they are subject to criminal care and are condemned as a special reaction. On average, between five and ten young people under the age of 18 were in prison at one time — about 80pst. of which care is taken. Exceptionally, prisons are long-term. The Children’s Convention says that children should not be born together with adult sentences, and that is why we are now preparing these two nationwide youth actions. Reality shows that young people are guilty of serious crime, such as kidnapping, torture, abduction and assault. This is a reality we can't turn away from. These are young people to whom society needs protection, and this protection must be given to society. This group of young people is particularly challenging, and we know that their situation is very difficult to change. We also know a lot about what doesn't work. It's a sad experience to see children in prison. Prison sentences, or any kind of punishment, do not seem to be rehabilitating in themselves, as some here in the Chamber seem to believe. The aim of these youth actions is to ensure social security for young people. Actions shall be continuously evaluated and a pilot project of two years shall be carried out. I believe that under criminal law, youth action can lead to a change in the young person’s structure and support in a positive maturing and learning process. The majority, the Labour Party and SV, are committed to the fact that punishment that works is also to be offered to those under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1164	We're all concerned that we need to rehabilitate better. I put great emphasis on the fact that a prerequisite for being able to get rehabilitated and get back to a life and work after atonement is that you are so healthy and fast under atonement that you can do both to start education, work training and not least to be able to master life by yourself. Then, like Odd Einar Dørum, I think it's a crossroads of thought that health care is not given more attention in the message. Indeed, there was such an ‘eye-opener’ for an overall judicial committee at the hearing when the Medical Association presented its evidence of the wide differences between prisons in the amount and type of healthcare actually provided. At the same time, we know that we have a prisoner population who has major drug problems and often other health problems, which makes them quite heavy cases. People in criminal care have also expressed the feeling that they are being overly responsible for medication. In the past, when you were handing out very mild medicines that we can go and buy at the pharmacy ourselves, you are now distributing B and C medicines, which you should actually be a health care professional to distribute. I think that you underestimate this, and that you should have grasped this with healthcare in a completely different way. I think it's a little strange that the government parties can't be involved in both the comments and the suggestion that this is something that you should get a proper review of. I also miss the fact that the Council of State responds to this with the drug situation in Norwegian prisons, because even here, it is the staff of the criminal services who in some way dwell on the paradox that, on the one hand, we are going to run and build up more drug treatment services, drug abuse, while only recognising that we have a significant drug problem on the inside of Norwegian prisons. It is of fundamental importance to stop drug abuse if there is to be some legitimacy and morality in simultaneously driving and treating those who are in prison. Finally, the focus was on a programme on the detention sentences that are on Ila and that do not receive important psychiatric follow-up. Then it is a paradox that the Government – and that is the Ministry of Health’s own budget for 2009 – actually says that they have been cut in the security psychiatric places. I urge the Minister of Justice to have a close dialogue with the Minister of Health and to put in place an offer for these Norway's most dangerous prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1177	The representative of the Progress Party was concerned about what is expected of the Government in terms of people's perception of justice, and I am aware that there is no popular claim, there is no popular movement out there that requires those who commit criminal acts to be punished any longer, and that they should be punished harder. The regular Northman out there expects and asks for is that those who commit criminal acts get rehabilitation opportunities, that they get training in mastering their everyday lives, that they get training in mastering minds, that they get training opportunities, that they get health opportunities, and that they get training in living in civil society, that they become normal and ordinary citizens when they get out. That's what makes society safer, and that's what the government delivers. That's what this message is all about. We have two projects going on right now, and I'll start from the two examples. One is in Oslo, the so-called TOG project, an offer to repeaters, where criminal services cooperate with and are in contact with the urban areas, for example. Health services, non-governmental organisations and ensure that when people are released, they have a place to go. They have a dwelling, they have a job, and there are people who take care of them when they get out. As I said, it's the first hours and the first days that are the most important for the released person to make sure that he or she doesn't commit a criminal act again and returns to prison. The second example is the Tromsø prison, which employs a person with a socio-social background who does about the same work: is in contact with the health service, is in contact with the educational seat out there, is in contact with the municipality out there and works and ensures that when an employee is released, housing is in place, the educational opportunity is in place, and it is possible to get a job, so that he slips into society as a law-abiding citizen. Again: I haven't registered anywhere that it's a popular claim that people should be punished any longer and harder. I want to repeat: what people expect out there is that we provide health care, we provide education, we provide work training and penetrating in prisons. That's what the government delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1190	I think I should be so humble as to say that this big message is not a complete message, that we are now done. So the input that comes both in the health sector, in the education sector and in the other sectors, and the significant challenge that we have in our society in general to get these professionals to go in the same direction, we're not done. The message is a message that we need more of it. Health-related work is absolutely important. That's why it's important for the government that we build up the number of paragraph 12, that we get adequate training. But we hadn't managed to make this effort in criminal care without the Ministry of Education. So there's education in all prisons. We couldn't do our library and cultural effort without the Minister of Culture. We could not have done the housing effort now without having been with the municipal minister, and we could not have done the same thing with the detention unit in prison, which is very much a health issue, and which requires cooperation across these sectors. I could mention several areas, but time prevents me from doing so. But there is another important point that I want to challenge the opposition to, and I would like to ask for answers, especially from the Right and the Advance Party. You are now running almost a repeated argument that the reconciliation queue has been closed by means other than what you really want. It is absolutely right that a large proportion of the places that we have established are open. The places we want to find in Bredtveit, Bruvoll, Bjørgvin and Ravneberget, for example, have also contributed well in terms of quality. My challenge to the Right and Advance Party – I know that the Christian People's Party and the Left have a somewhat more nuanced view of this – is: Is it now this way towards the next election and possibly a new composition of the Storting that the Right and the Advance Party will put down these open places because you think it is not appropriate? I think the voters deserve an answer. I think that criminal services deserve an answer to that, and I also think that the prisoners deserve an answer to that. There would be a sudden shift not only in terms of capacity, but also in terms of the significant quality increase we have received in criminal care with the great effort being made, among other things. to the women of Bredtveit, who now have an opportunity to zone openly in the Stifender project. Is it so that this political rhetoric that this is just open spaces means that the Right Party and the Advance Party go to the elections to put these places down? I think we also need to get some answers, as we in the position have been asked so many questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1201	First of all, I would like to say that I fully share the concern of the representative Dørum for the drug field. It has been a sin for far too long, over many years and at too many levels to our vulnerable drug addicts. This applies both at municipal level and also here in relation to the health service. Here the Minister of Health has announced an escalation plan. He has also announced that the interaction reform is a significant part of the drug escalation plan, as the municipal level needs to be better competent to deal with it. What's good is that we're already running in criminal matters. At least we have to be happy about that. - Then I told you. As regards the check-up, which the representative of Aspaker is concerned with, I know that about 20,000 urine tests are carried out in Norwegian prisons. About 10 pst. Of them, abuse. So I guess criminal services take urine samples where they suspect abuse, or when someone comes from leave. We're not going to create a picture of it flourishing all the way beyond drugs in the walls or in the prisons, but it's a challenge to reduce drug use in prisons. Everyone agrees. The most important thing is to ensure that those who are drug addicts are able to be rehabilitated from their abuse. That's what has to be the main thing. Finally, I would just like to comment on what is the Honorary Word of the Advancement Party, namely victims and relatives. It is such that this government is able to have several thoughts in its head at the same time. We have made considerable efforts for victims and relatives, both through the amendment of the Victim Compensation Act and the amendment of the Criminal Procedures Act, in order to improve the follow-up to criminal proceedings, etc. It is not that the most important thing for victims of crime is to be punished longer or harder. On the contrary, last year's investigation by the Association of Lawyers shows that the victims of crime are involved, that the penalty should be effective, so that no one else will be sacrificed when they have finished their compensation. I should like to see the Progress Party get into its policy soon, too, because it might help us to get back together as the representative Horne is trying to say we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1217	My field is money. I'm probably a layman there too, but even more a layman in the case of basement rings. I'll take another post because I think there's a lack of practical input into this. Everyone's talking about housing, and everyone's talking about work. The People's Party is talking about being critical of other forms of reconciliation, critical of the atoning discount, that it is contrary to people's sense of justice. The minister has said that those who do crime will be punished. It's firmness, and at the same time it's said that those who are motivated for it are going to get better rehabilitation than the one that is today. So to open ground. The party of progress criticises it. I have said to those who are in open atoning: put your fingers out and show what you have done for something! Progress part-selectors will not criticise the kind of reconciliation they see on their fingers. This is one way to say it. Many people want to gain more practical professional experience. There are many in prisons who have it, and that's what they're motivated to do. Give it a chance. Show that one can get respect from what one does, that one will out of it. Why not support it, the Progress Party? Why not strengthen it, and why not talk well about it? Why not make it easier to move on? The Council of State has an important and demanding job in terms of getting a new content in soning in practice, and not least getting something that works in post-protection. Crime in freedom has a significant potential for improvement, to say the least. There are people today who learn that today's prison and today's after protection is a system that is an obstacle to the conversion that I have now tried to make myself a spokesman for. I have great respect for the job that the Council of State has to do here to turn a shot, so that we get a content that can lead to more people being excited about what has been presented here. Governments have to make sure that we get a new culture in soning, with more emphasis on practical work for those who want it. That's the Central Party's highest wish, because there's actually a lot of people who want it. This gives a sea urchin, thereby getting a respect, and thus getting a few certificates from his first job after prison. Think about getting a certificate that one is a good workwoman. It's the best chance you have to get a better life beyond what you had. I think there are big things that have started here, but there is a big job that remains. It's a system that's grown in many ways into one way of looking at it, which is largely linked to the Party of Advancement's lockup of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1235	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1238	The one who has received many questions in this debate without answering is the Council of State. I've got the first questions from the Council of State now, and I'm actually going to answer them. I think it is okay that he now admits that the message is not complete, but I think it is a paradox when the government has spent three years presenting it. Then I actually thought you should have a better basis at the bottom to give the return guarantee a real content. The right has not said anything about our intention to reduce the number of settlements. What we've been asking questions about is the balance between open places on one side and closed places on the other side. It is in a situation where the police are missing custody places, and where Norway is receiving international criticism that we are using the smooth cells and breaching the provisions on it. So I'm concerned with better balance, and if we say we're going to have progress in reconciliation, we need progress in reconciliation. Then one has to put together the number of prisons and the kind of settlement we have, in a slightly different way and use them in a slightly different way than what is practiced by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1249	I would like to take up the question that the Minister of Justice had of the Progress Party – and now you have a brilliant relationship since you will have the floor afterwards! I mean that we, and not least they add, have to have the right to know what the Progress Party will do with the open places we've created. Should we reduce the number of places? Are we going to put them down, or are we going to keep them? That is what I think we are entitled to get answers to during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1254	Solvent Horn has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1257	I think it's time to answer questions here. First to Thomas Breen: It may well be that the victims and the relatives do not want more severe punishments, but at least they want whoever has done a criminal act to pay the penalty he has received. What they want is to be heard and have a right to complain, and if you don't always get a say in that complaint, at least you want to have that right. So to a question from Knut Storberget. The Progress Party has not said anything in its remarks that we want to reduce the number of settlements. There's only one thing that's absolutely certain, and that's that we need different kinds of settlements, but on a completely different level than what the Great Mountains and the Government add up to. We've clearly said that we need more places, and it might be that some of the open places can be converted into closed places. That's what we'll see when we get a review of the places that are there today. But there's one thing I can guarantee, and it's that home reconciliation, electronic reconciliation with control, ends if the Advance Party comes into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1266	Now I'm going to do something I rarely do: praise the representative Lundtigen and the central party's approach angle to the questions we're discussing here. I don't remember ever doing that publicly, so I'm going to take the opportunity to do it now. It is simply because I had the great pleasure to observe the representative Lundteg as an extra ‘prisoner’ – as he pointed out in his post – when I worked a week in Hassel prison and got to see for myself what practical work and hard work could actually lead to. I probably wouldn't have fixed it at all, but I saw for myself how the representative Lundtegen actually carried out some of what we all here are talking about. I think it was a good, value-based post that Lundtägen made, that says something about what we should actually strive for in the criminal care for all people here to get a dignity and a security on themselves, so that they might be able to cope with being free from crime. It was good and valuable conservatively said what Mr Lundtegen said. I just thought it was good to have it said. I wish we could get more of that. It actually also underlines that we have a common view of value. I wasn't really going to take the floor here, but then you're going to look at what we're actually dealing with in the minority proposals: increased focus on leadership in the criminal community, increased focus on volunteering, volunteers who actually care about prisoners, even if they're not employed, but who have something to contribute to. That is a prerequisite for making the entire return guarantee work. So for health in prison. We had a hearing where the Medical Association documented how it is, that the health service given to prisoners in Norwegian prisons is under any criticism. It is no wonder that many of them simply do not manage their daily lives when they come out again, when they do not have a health service that meets the requirements that prisoners should be able to expect. Not least, the opposition stands together, the Progress Party, the Right and the other opposition parties, to bet on knowledge, and to be able to document the courses you are taking, so that you can use it when you come out afterwards. These are proposals that I think the Government should at least take a closer look at, and perhaps even support. Afterwards, we're going to have an interpellant debate on the police. And then I want to say in the end that when you're very happy that the reconciliation queues go down, yes, it's good, but at the same time maybe one of the reasons is that you don't have enough police to investigate, charge or take many. So we have great numbers of darkness in crime. When you get a proper start on the dialogue with the Police Union, you'll probably see after a relatively short period of time that the enormous amount of pride you give here in relation to the reconciliation queues is actually not real, but that there's more crime, and that the reconciliation queues are probably going to go up again quickly because you haven't had a balance in the criminal case chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1281	When I hear the post from the representative Oktay Dahl, I have to ask the Right to add the goodwill. I think the voters would also like that, and that you could actually also reflect for a short moment that there's something moving in the positive direction. This constant negative argument, which is partly based on wrong facts, does not grow anything out of it. What the Right has now presented in relation to almost everything you do, especially in the area of criminal justice and the police, I think it grows very little, both in terms of electoral influx to the Right, and not least in terms of creating a new foundation for politics. This claim that the police are down, which was supposed to be the basis for the closure of the reconciliation queue, must, of course, be crazy for any justice policy to know. When you look at the volume of the prisoner, it has increased significantly. You also have to look at the number of convictions, not only in the time I have been in government, but also under the previous government. So this is not right with all respect. We have great numbers of darkness in many areas, but we are in the process of clearing up more crime and getting more into adoration, and we are also in the process of increasing the level of penalties in important areas. I have to say that when I now hear the justification from the opposition, from the Right Party and the Advance Party, that in the last three years we have received – and have been criticized quite hard for – open places of atonement, yes, the answer is now, in relation to what is their alternative, not that you should put down what you don't like. No, balance is to be ensured, and it is other fine and important and, in fact, empty words. I am very pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party on this occasion have indicated that you should not put down the open places – that is how I understood the answer. It is important, not only for the capacity of criminal services, but it is important because in the open areas a quality promise has also been made. You're a teacher. You're a teacher. They run kennels at Bruvoll and cultural activities at Bjørgvin. At Bredtveit, where I was today early, the Stifner project has been established. I wish that we now went a step further, that we left this black-and-white debate on the open or closed setting, and that everyone contributed to the content getting better, whether the soning was closed or open. With regard to the closed places, I have to say that it is this government that is now setting up a prison at NOK 1.4 billion in Halden with 220 closed places. Both have been delivered here. A balance has been made so that those who need a tough response must have a tough response, but at the same time – where we see opportunities, opportunities should be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1294	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2744]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1312	The Norwegian police are facing the perhaps most demanding manning challenge ever. While the Minister of Foreign Affairs is a member of dialogue, even with the Taliban, the Minister of Justice has the protection of the dialogue with the police's largest trade union. The emancipator looks like a devastating black-throat game where one government council after another has twinned their hands. There has never been any more important dialogue between the authorities and the law enforcement authorities, and the dialogue has rarely been more absent. Both the development of crime and the security challenges in society require more than ever a well-functioning police apparatus. This four-year period has been lost by the police for well over a hundred years due to new working time regulations. The move to other professions is showing an increasing trend and the establishment is not able to take advantage of the possibility of holding the seniors. Too many go by before the age of 60. Reference is made to the annual strengthening of the police, but the truth is that at the same time the department is weakened by the fact that annual work is being unraveled at the bottom. That's how it's going to continue in the future if the government doesn't get any more on the offensive in relation to the police. The question is then what concrete new measures and strategy the Minister of Justice has to take to keep the police up until 2012, until it can start harvesting larger coal graduates from the Police College. ‘We want a close and strong police force with LEN’s offices all over the country. We will make it more visible and effective, inter alia, by reviewing the possibility of co-location with public service offices where appropriate. We want to increase the staffing of civil servants and police professionals." This may be a well-known quotation for red-green government and big business representatives. These are not my words, but it is a verbal quotation from the political chapter of the Soria Moria Declaration. I had never dreamed that I would stand on the Groetings pulpit to take advantage of a quote from there. But now I think it's in its place. Does the government not live up to its own pronounced policy on the police? Innumerable are now the reports of a police force that does not have the power to meet citizens' expectations, which the citizens want much more visible in the community, and which the public believes has too high a threshold to move out when something happens. When violence doesn't qualify for exclamation, what? The right is very concerned about this development. Nor can we understand how the Minister of Justice can defend what is happening. Society needs an offensive police force that can deal with things when something happens, and that has the local expertise needed to prevent and preferably intervene before crime happens. Recently, the Minister of Justice postponed the long-planned reorganisation in Follo and stopped the closure of a number of county offices. That was a good news, until I realized the reason: the matter was obviously so kinky that it could not be decided before the election. What does that mean? Does this mean that the Council of State will avoid becoming unpopular before 14 September, but will it strike immediately afterwards? The right-wing believe that the citizens have a legitimate right to know what the country's Minister of Justice actually believes in this matter. Thus, a large and popular region should not be able to know what plans the government has for the police service in their municipality. The summer is soon over us, and the government's position war with the Police Union has put the country in an even more difficult situation politically. On 1 July, the current working time agreement for the police ceases without it now appears to be possible to put in place a new agreement within this period. The government went through the winter with a very formalistic approach to refuse dialogue with the police. That means that the process of finding a solution started overtime. For months, the Red-Green government has waged ongoing conflict with the police's largest trade union rather than taking the steps we must expect from the Government: negotiating a new working time agreement that can give us more police force during an important transitional period. Instead of contributing to the remotivation of the police force, further confrontation was achieved through the use of regulations. Why? It's not easy to understand, and the result was a historical police demonstration here in Oslo. That it would be a red-green government that skipped the negotiating institute without trying to reach agreement with the employees first, I expect many have wondered. Regardless of new civil positions and increased admission to the Police College, police operating budgets are so tight that unoccupied positions are almost a prerequisite for balancing the budget. There is little use in filling new posts at the top, if the budget is already too tight to pay anyone who is there today. Many municipalities pay a high price when police resources are pressed. Serious shortages of police will be further exacerbated by the absence of today’s working time agreement in the summer, and this can hardly be repaired by a coward. If the Minister of Justice had followed his own government statement, we would never have come into a situation where there were announcements of the closure of 30 county officials' offices, even thinner watchlists and a strong centralization of the police. Police will withdraw this summer from a number of communities at a time when holiday activities and festival life flourish. The need for a police present is evident when a lot of people gather. The signal to the criminals when the police disappears is not good either. The right is concerned with the close, visible and preventative police, which we also thought the government had as its goal. In 2008, the police dropped a total of 2,500 crimes and 1,800 crimes committed by a known perpetrator. The length of proceedings for violence has increased, and both are equally unacceptable. It's a cross of thought that this is the development of a red-green government that has guaranteed the population that they would spend the big money on the big tasks. Passports will be removed this year from 185 police and officers offices. This leads to a reduction in the provision of services at the Länsmannskontoret and to a deterioration in the contact with the public. When tasks are removed, they are interpreted as a step on the road to closure and the beginning to the end of both the County Office and the local police. Right wants a near-police with a presence throughout the country. It doesn't create security when you know that the nearest policeman is miles away, and won't have the opportunity to assist if there's any other small incident happening at the same time. If there is one thing in the last few months that has been shown, there is a screaming need for more visible police, for example. in Follo. The right is serious when we aim for Norway to have a visible and security-creating neighbourhood police force. This is right-wing willing to pay the bill for in terms of more officials and larger budgets, as we have also shown in our alternative budgets throughout the enlargement period. And yes, we should have trained more, but we're on every proposal now, and will educate as many as possible in the years that come. The 2020 Manning Committee has a clear target on the size of the police force in 2020, but the Right is concerned about how, in the short term, we can ensure that citizens' safety is properly and properly ensured, regardless of where they live in this country – whether it is at Grünerløkka in Oslo or in Båtsfjord. There is little doubt that police districts with large geographical distances have a particular challenge in being able to handle their tasks in a good way and to the satisfaction of the public. On a number of occasions, the right has called for progress and national action to address the manning crisis. So far the answer from the Minister of Justice has been to refer to local wage negotiations and local initiatives. It is well and good, but not enough in the present situation. Does the Council not see that national action and leadership can contribute to mobilising more seniors and other forms of police innovation? On the right, there can never be any progress towards an A and B police force, where the districts are fed with some sort of police patrol that roams inside, and the public has no place to turn when they need the police. From the Right, therefore, today's interpellation is an expression of our concern about the situation, and because we do not feel completely confident about the government's priorities in the field of justice. Police are one of the central tasks of the state. It is important that the position of the police is not undermined, and that people should still be able to trust that the police will provide the necessary assistance and support when the situation so warrants. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the Government and the Minister of Justice make it clear how to resolve today's manning crisis in the police, also in the short term, and how to secure the country's municipalities a proper police service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1359	It's with wonder I hear the interpellant justifying his interpellation. It's very special when you're moving forward, for example. the reform that is being worked on in Follo Police District, where we have had good contact with municipalities over a long time, had a good process, and right-wing people from Follo have expressed that much of the change being outlined is a positive change. So in the last six months, the representative, André Oktay Dahl, and the representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, have demanded that this be lifted into the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can give its attention to the game. So the government and the undersigned decide that yes, okay, this is an important debate about the police of the future, it is a pilot, it should stand firm, and therefore we have decided that the Stortinget should be briefed through St. pp. No 1st@item: Then I come here today, and then the jam is wrong for me too! I really don't understand the Right Judicial Policy profile on such issues. Our ambition is just that the Storting will be able to give its approval to the game when the Government's proposal for a model is available. I thought it was such a fear that the political parties in the government would make a decision without the Stortinge being allowed to participate in it. Then we open up so that we should take that debate, in the extension of the debate we had on the police role message. If it is now that the Right does not want this matter to the Stortinget, then I would like to have clear information about it, because these are important reform issues to which we need a decent approach. I understand that there is disagreement between local and central people in the Right, but precisely this point I think the interpellant should actually answer for. I am pleased that the representative has read the Soria Moria statement, but I had hoped that she could see the reports that are being issued, on how we have fulfilled what is stated in the Soria Moria statement. In January 2007, I commissioned the Directorate of Police to develop the needs of the police and officers' seats in the future, and which led to the fact that we received the report Police against 2020. We have chosen to follow up on the recommendations there, and we are even in front of the form. The fact that we have too few police officers today is that it has been trained for a few police officers in Norway. Under the previous government, where the Right was sitting, the lowest level of admission to the Police College was 240 students, and it was increased to 360 students. Had the previous government trained as many policemen as we do now, namely, 648 extra policemen, many of the challenges we face locally, of course, looked different. That's why the admission to the Police College has been very central to the Government – and it's central. It's one of the main recommendations that you get on a level as high as you've done, with the government's investment in 432 students in the last two years and now five hundred and fifty-five. I've hurt to understand that it's not fulfilling what's in the Soria Moria statement that we're going to train and get more policemen out, that we're actually doing it. So to the question of civil positions. In addition to the law-enforcement staff, civil positions must also be held. There is a well-known fact that we are now taking a take-off: we spend $4 billion during this spring on civilian positions – not 160 jobs, as the Right suggested before Christmas, but $460, not between $200 and $300, as the Police Joint Association proposed, but $460. The policy needs to be read in a special way to say that these are not strong measures that will help increase police resources in a society. I would like to remind you that the Right in the treatment of the state budget last year proposed the following – and I will quote from the setting: ‘These members believe it is fundamentally wrong that moralists and killer researchers should spend their time on duty on security and transport. There is a need for a major lift to employ civilians who can handle the transport of prisoners, representations and watchkeeping in the courts and in the medical services of the larger cities. These members therefore earmarked’ – I beg you to note – ‘80 million. SEK to employ civilians, which will provide at least 160 new posts.» The government has come with not 80 million in the action package. NOK 242 million. kr, not with 160 posts but with 460. You have to be reasonably negative if you're making it as a lack of bet. What has changed so significantly since the Right wrote in its position on the budget what they thought was the need? I'd like to know. With this, the Government has actually fulfilled – and enforced – what we are recommended in terms of Police against 2020, in terms of both admission to the Police College and what we can do in terms of crewing otherwise: gaining civil positions. We are not yet in 2020, but I am pleased that we have already come halfway to what we have been recommended for civil positions. I am also pleased to see that there are now a number of arrest warrants being hired here in Oslo. There are 100 new civil positions, such as: shall exempt policemen from sitting in the Tinghuset, so that they can come out and operate police services and staff the police posts that we are now to establish, which the Right in its time were in the process of decommissioning. That is why I must respectfully say that the government has delivered it. With regard to the issue of senior policy interventions, the Police Directorate has implemented a number of such measures to enable staff with the desired competence to continue in the police and county council beyond the lower age limit. It's important. The Directorate of Police collected information on the number of police and county officials who have continued due to senior policy measures in 2008 and the number was 169. I think we're on the right track on these important questions. Now we should put away what I see as wrong information, wrong description, also in order at least to be able to create the security that we politicians are responsible for creating, so that we do not create a wrong image for the population, but informs us that the police are, in fact, so massive. This has also been reflected in the budgets. The budget has increased significantly in size in our time – DKK 1.1 billion in real terms, over DKK 2 billion in nominal terms. Finally, I just have to comment a little bit on what Aspaker's representative is making regarding the trade union of the Police Joint Association. First of all, I think it would be quite special if you were to deal with pay and work issues here in the Storting, in addition to what is the obvious course of this kind of decision. A political decision to settle wages here in this room could cause serious infective effects on other groups of employees. I remind you that the Police Union said it was pleased with the payroll they were through last year. Now you're in an interim settlement. I do not intend to provide the police with an interim settlement. It must be done in order. It has been our clear message to the police, and I assume that there will also be the clear message of future governments to professional organisations that have demands and that promote them in every way possible. They have every right to, but it's our duty to get it into the right track. I would also like to stress that on the issue of working time regulations, discussions have been initiated in the Directorate of Police. The police community has said that they are pleased that these have been initiated. There is a trade trail up against these working time regulations that we intend to follow. I think it's important that we follow that. I think it's important for the police, and I think it's important for society. Then I would like to stress that we have had a particularly good dialogue with the Joint Police Association, and they have chosen to give us, the Government, a reward for the efforts now being made in the area of police, whether it be DNA reform, college admissions or – not least – civil positions. I am at least pleased that the Joint Police Association sees that you are being heard, and that important instruments are also being recorded to increase police force in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1396	It is obvious that the Minister of Justice is under pressure in the case of lumni offices and the Follo case. Not long ago, we had a rather interesting debate here in the Chamber where a representative from the Central Party spoke about the situation in Follo and was very clear that it could never be the government's policy that a large number of statesmen's offices were to be set up. The majority has addressed the report on police reform a good few years ago, and we have dealt with the police report. In both of these documents, the police, the visible police, the locally anchored police are the guiding idea. Then I think it's going to put things very much on my head when the council here tries, I kept saying, polishing -- if that's so now that the Right doesn't want things to the Storting? What is good enough for us is to know that the Government does not implement a large-scale closure of cannon offices in the country, which, in my opinion, would be strongly contrary to the Soria Moria declaration, as well, where it says that one should have “members’ offices throughout the country” – if not then the wording “members’ offices throughout the country” means one in Troms, two in Follo, one in Sogn and Fjordane, etc. If you think that ‘public authorities across the country’, if you think that the audience should have a good and close range of police services, you don’t get it by reforming it in Follo, which no matter how you want to produce it, is driven by lack of operational resources, and forced into a kind of reorganisation that goes far beyond just thinking about how to build environments of competence, etc. Being able to be present, being able to have contact points, the public seeing that the police are there, is superfluous. So until the last time the Council of State was involved, this with pay settlement. I believe that the right has been very clear that wage negotiations are not what we are talking about; we are talking about working time agreements. Just as we have doctors in our hospitals who have special work arrangements because they are a key group and we need their skills, it is vital that we now get the police to function, and that we put in place new working time agreements for a transitional period, until we get enough police officers. Then I would like to say to the Council of State, with respect to reporting, in relation to these 460 civil positions: The government itself proposed 20 civil posts in the State budget with which the Right was involved and treated before Christmas, and we proposed 160 posts. And then the financial crisis comes, and you're going to spend a lot of new money, and then you're going to put 460 civilian positions on the table. Have we protested? No, on the contrary, we've wanted those positions to be warmly welcomed, and we're now halfway to the 1,000. But in the crisis situation we're in now, maybe we should have dosed even more of the civilian positions to make sure that we have a police force that works well until we get more police-trained personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1407	With regard to the civil positions that we are discussing here, my point is that when the Right before Christmas thought that there was enough 160, you cannot come half a year later and say that 460 is too bad. Nor can you come and criticise the lack of effort on the basis of the fact that in a package of measures, you actually do the big thing you do, and in any case not under the impression that you would actually go further. I have read the configuration of the package, and I cannot see that the Right proposes more. So here are two clear steps in terms of police action: training more — and the efforts now made at the Police College are massive — in addition to the fact that we have managed to get more money into place. So it's a very good effort from the Police College, you've really stretched the knit, to say it like this. It's a rather different situation to be faced by the employees of the Police College to train 552 students than when the Right was in government and you were down to 240 students. So I want to say that when it comes to the issue of police reform, we are totally dependent on us having ongoing discussions about how we have organized the police. I thought the Right actually was an exponent to just organize public business in the best possible way, so that we got the most force out of it. So I'm recording that in terms of that kind of change, the right of this period has just said no, no, no to all of the proposals anyway. What happens in Follo is a very good example of that, and a good illustration. When discussing the police role report, there was a broad consensus that two pilot projects should be carried out in relation to the reorganisation of the police — Hordaland and Follo. It has been decided to start Hordaland, and we have chosen to join the Follo process with good dialogue with both the Right Rapporteurs and others. So now you make a political game, in my opinion, of this, and actually try to make it an electoral campaign. When you even ask to get the matter to Stortinget and you get it, and then it gets wrong, then I think the game is revealed. I think it's a lot to pick up on organizing the police in a better way in the future. But we can combine that with maintaining presence and local loner offices, as the government actually did. And just in those cases, where you got local excitement around it, as it was in connection with the police role announcement, and where the municipalities were minded that here you're going to get more police force out of doing it another way, you would do it. That is what the government has chosen to work after, and I hope that we can have a constructive debate on Follo when it is presented in the Stortingen to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1416	Right-wing interpellation about the manning crisis in the police can actually be said a lot about, but I'm going to leave most of it lying down and concentrate on what the Progress Party has proposed. I have to say, however, that the Right budgets in this area were probably not of the fattest kind when the Right itself put into government. Without the Progress Party to push on, it would have been rather meagre budgets. But back to the Progress Party: For 2009, we have proposed to strengthen the police budget by 745 million. kr. That's 330 million. kr for operation, which is then distributed throughout Norway, but the emphasis is on Oslo, where we have proposed 115 million. kr. We have also proposed 500 million. SEK for investments, of which 100 million. kr to Oslo. We have also proposed differentiated police training, so that we can get trained personnel in one year, for example. Guards, convicts, etc. Furthermore, it could be interesting to take up a part of the police role report, which we had to deal with for a while back. There were quite a number of suggestions and comments from the Progress Party. We were then left alone – completely alone. But the right thing to do is: the government has increased some of the items, they should be given credit for that, and the Council of State has really got a lot. He'll have that rose. What's bad is, unfortunately, there's been a crisis of trust between the police and the government. There are now reports of the closure of several janitorial offices in the summer, and the sacred guards are not being filled up. The floors are now sparsely populated in many places around Norway, and total minimum crews, which means that there will be a very poor offer to the public. We are of the opinion that it is now time to get a deal with the police officers, so that they can work overtime in the future, until we get enough people to put in. Solutions have been developed in similar areas with other establishments, and this should be done in this area as well. It must be remembered that the government is responsible for the security of its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1427	I'm experiencing a very wrong state council here in relation to the themes that the interpellant addresses. What's good is that the government parties and opposition are in complete agreement that the police are important. It is absolutely right that the budget proposals from the Centre-Right government were probably not on the level of the Progress Party, but thanks and praise were known in advance that the Progress Party in opposition, unlike the Workers' Party, was occupied by the police, so that there was something to give. In the three budgetary agreements we made with the Progress Party, the police were a budget winner. In one we joined the Workers' Party, the police were a budgetary officer. It says something about being happy that this Council of State has not inherited its own police budgets when he has been sitting in the Council of State. Seven out of eight police budgets via the Right Centre, with the assistance of the Progress Party – hurrah! – was better than the Workers' Party ever managed to join the opposition. That's good work! So it's this one with Follo. It is clear that the Council of State likes the best red runners and applause, and then I will come with applause. It's great that, after massive pressure from the opposition, the Council of State turns out, at least so far, in relation to the process that you've seen in Follo. By letter in March this was to be decided by the Council of State, by the Council of State. Then, obviously, the Center Party has done sensible things internally in the Government and pressured its own government council. They had good reason to do so, because what was being done in Follo was contrary to Storting's assumptions and an over-interpretation of a comment from the Judicial Committee, which was, therefore, said that adjustments should be made. We have always believed that these were not adjustments, but something quite different. That's also why this has previously been taken up in an interpellation, so it's good that the Council of State is now actually anchoring it in the Storting. So it's an interpretation of Storting's assumptions that hasn't been right, and it's good that the Council of State actually does, probably after the central party's internal pressure. In the case of civil servants, there needed to be a financial crisis in order to understand that there was a police crisis. Then we can discuss the numbers that came, and the snow that fell last fall, if there was any snow. The situation was that the budget did not contain one penny, as well as – perhaps there was money for 10-20 civil servants. We suggested 160, PF to 200, and then it became money to 460. But there's reason to take up what the interpellant addresses, for police districts by police districts tell them that they don't get to occupy these civil positions. It's actually a whole bunch of police districts that have to cancel people because of their budgets. They don't know if it at all becomes more police force out of the money given. And then one must actually, like an opposition party, even though the government has come up with a crisis package, be allowed to ask about the effect of the crisis millions that are coming. Yes, that's good, but it indicates that it hasn't been enough, when you look at the Police Forum and get inquiries by e-mail from a number of employees, and also police officers, who tell how their budgets make them quit cops. Then it might not help so much with one or two more civil servants. That being said, there is one issue for discussion and treatment in the Police Directorate, to which I hope I could get the comment of the Council of State, namely the small dispute between the staff member and the police officer in Rome on how to have a strategy to use civil servants in a lukewarm manner. The recommended common policy of the Rome Police Federation is in line with the policy of the Right, namely to have a clear strategy of relieving as a detainee. So I recommend that you take a little look at what's happening in Rome, to see if the means that luckily finally came, are being used in the most effective way possible. Because there is a great deal of disagreement between the police chief and the trusted ones. In conclusion, I hope that we can end this debate in a reasonably all right way. We're all busy with the police in this room now, it wasn't like that before. The snow that fell last year helps very little. But it has to be allowed to say that a government council should actually tackle that there's an interaction where you're concerned about today's situation based on the recordings we're getting, and that you don't feel wrong about it coming from that kind of input from the interpellant. Because there are so many people who get in touch and tell us what reality is, and then it can be thought that that reality is a little different from what you experience from the ministry offices and from the places you choose to visit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1445	After the speeches that the Right has had in this debate now, I actually have difficulties understanding how to interpret the Right, when there comes a cannon post that says that nothing has happened, everything is so black, everything is so hard, and everything goes down, and then the humiliated Oktay Dahl comes down and adds another tone. But the substance was also that nothing happens, and everything is so wrong and bad. I understand that the Right needs to take up the police debate approximately. once a month in the hall. When we see the polls in the newspapers, they need something they can use. But after what has happened in the last six months, where the police have been picked up from the Right every month and polls go down, I think they should find another case. Just to have said that, this government is doing the job of clearing up the Right, which ran for four years. And I don't like it – now I'm actually told about this debate – but we have to when the debate is first taken, so when we're invited to a debate from just the Right, to remind the Right that we're about to clear up after them. It was a historically low number of students we took over, it was historically long prison cows we took over. We've turned the trend on both sides now. I don't have to go into anything special about numbers, but 460 civilian positions we just returned a few weeks ago. The right asked for 160. That shows that we're betting. That means that we see that these are challenges, and that's why we're betting heavily. So the right is very concerned with the dialogue with the trade union movement. Interestingly, it is the Right that has suddenly become the greatest friend and benefactor of the trade union movement. We remember how the Right relationship to the trade movement has been over time. The trade union movement also understands that. So when the Right is trying to use the trade union movement now, in a debate where they're struggling, both the trade union movement and we get the whole point. Then it's the Progress Party, which boasts of all the additions to the police. And that's good, that's good. They actually need it -- the Advance Party needs it. Because when you cut $12 million. kr to the Credit Authority, there will be more crime. When you cut 86 million. kr to Tollvesenet, there will be more crime of it. When you cut 248 million. kr to the tax haven, you can expect nothing but more crime, and this will require more police. Because it's clear that they're making up the accounts. But who pays? Well, society pays it anyway, because when crime increases, it's a big welfare problem for Norwegian citizens. I would like to mention at the very end that the Advance Party cut approx. 670 million. kr in the alcohol duty – on the contrary, 10 pst. All over the place. All professionals agree that increasing access to alcohol increases the possibility of both violence and other types of crime in a state of intoxication. Then you need more police. And then I think it's absolutely right of them that they increase the budget. But it might have been just as good not to open up and facilitate that there would be more crime, more rush and more problems of it, because then maybe we didn't need more police. Instead, focus on prevention. That's the best, and that's what this government and SV are concerned about. Prevention is the best thing. Repair – yes, we'll do it, but it's not the favorite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1460	I had so far thought I would tone down the debate a little today, we've had it many times before. But I find it necessary to comment on some of the things that have come from the pulpit. All of them first for the Follo project, or for the Follo project. There is something strange about the argument that has been in that process by the special representative Oktay Dahl, but also from Aspaker. When Aspaker refers to the police role report, I would like to mention that we put there some principles for how the police should work. One of the principles that we all agreed on was what is called the POP method, working with problem-oriented police work. That means using analysis and knowledge to detect and solve crime. That was the police officer's reason to start the Follo project that was outlined. So that's completely indisputable. The political justification from the leadership level is not relevant in relation to that project, says Right. It is therefore better to listen to the slightly narrower approach of local policy, which is certainly very good at it – you choose to do it. There's something strange from the centralizing right party, but I choose to interpret it so that they see good, positive local political approaches to it. I'll remember that at the next crossroads when we come to another type of centralization debate. But you choose to be running good for local politics. Fair enough. Then we have had a very demanding situation over the last year in terms of the situation up against the police union and the government. There's been a lot of discussion in this room, there's been a lot of debate in the media, and it's demanding because you have a lot of angles of incidence. Basically, there are two tracks to find a solution. One goes on working time, as the representative Aspaker pointed out – that is quite right. The second is on the ordinary interim settlement. But then Aspaker says that it has been crystal clear what the Right believes about how these negotiations should be conducted. No one else has understood. It is such that I have registered that all parties on the Stortinget, except the Right, have been critical of some of what has emerged both in the report series of the VG, from some police officers and from when we were on committee tour in Trøndelag and heard about what methods are being used out; of course, there are primary source claims from people who experience it on the body. However, I experience that all parties, except the Right, have been critical of this, and believe that if it is true that it is, it is not good. I think former Minister of Justice Dørum was exemplary at Røros when he spoke to the National Assembly of the Joint Police Union, where he was clear that we cannot allow such methods. In that perspective, it's a little bit interesting to hear when Aspacer is going to sum up the debate today, how the Right would have intended to solve the angle of incidence with $50,000 in risk supplements, because it doesn't fit into any of the two tracks. What is the solution for the Right that requires the Government to act? How would the Right Act if they had been in government? It is an interesting sign when they claim that they are crystal clear with regard to the negotiating institute and the free formation of wages. It is a challenge that I expect the representative Aspaker to respond to, as she has so many times now been high and dark both in the media and from this pulpit in terms of the lack of handling by the Government. It's no obvious for the government to come up with a prescription. On the contrary, there was a step that had to be taken, really against our will. But it was because we were afraid that on July 1st, we had a police officer who wouldn't work because we didn't have working hours. So you could say that it would have been desirable for us to get there through negotiations. But we're not going to do that because it takes at least three months to come up with a prescription. In the period from 1 July to 3 months ahead, we did not risk the safety of our citizens in Norway. I also noticed that the Right was willing to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1475	First a little, sad comment. I notice that the workers' party members say, "When the right was in government." The name of the Minister of Justice was Odd Einar Dørum, and I represent the Left. I acknowledge all my deeds, both those I received praise for and those I had the guts for. I won't stay much by the past, but I have a good number memory. I remember, just like the representative Oktay Dahl, what the different budgetary settlements looked like. It was such that out of three conciliations with the Progress Party, two of them were not at all beautiful to the police. The third one was fine. There was a quarter of a billion at the top and a quarter of a billion from the government. The one agreement with the Workers' Party was about courts. That was $10 million. kr. Of course, I'm glad that the 2005 recording at 360 and the 2006 recording at 360 gave people in 2009 and gave it in 2008. And I'm very happy that the government has added a further escalation to 452. I am also positive that the government has put in 460 civilian posts. I think it's important to stress, because I've almost taken for granted that the civil positions are to be taken so wisely in the use of the police that it frees police force. That's how I've perceived it. If it's the case that there's rigidity somewhere on the local level, we're going to assume that the ministry's excellent people on behalf of the state council do the necessary administrative massage for things to come into place. That's the way it has to be. Governments do this. The Board of Vegar Solhjell has just had to tell the Education Directorate that it is the Stortinget that decides and not the detailed light in the Education Directorate. But you can always say through the media that there are other ways to do it. I'm glad. I have always used the example that some very concrete civil positions in Oslo would just be used to release policemen who are in the district court, who could have been used, for example. in operational outpatient services. Before I come to concrete measures – because I would like to be concrete and solution-oriented: I understand what has happened to Follo police districts. I asked the Council of State a written question, and the answer to the question was that the reality of the matter should be addressed in the State budget for 2010. I'm not going to be in on that, because I'm not going to make choices. But the answer was clear. It is clear that the logic of such an answer suggests that then you cannot continue as before. The logic was clear: then Stortinget has to get the case. I'm glad the Stortinge gets that case. I believe that on two occasions the Council of State should have the recognition that he has entered this process so that it would not go beyond the desire for a near-police police and a decentralised police force, which was very strongly within the police role message, which was dealt with in 2006. Then to the future. I think about the conflict we have now, that it is at least very important when people are obviously sitting together, that we find the agreed description of reality that goes on health, environment and safety. I think it is positive, as one element, that the Joint Police Association has offered police officers the opportunity to work. I take it for granted that when you negotiate an HMS regulation, the logical compensation measures in it are, and I hope that that process must be carried out. In the case of the second process, on remuneration, it must follow the usual track of tariffs. I've said that before, and I'm on it. But there is one measure that I have previously taken from the Parliament's pulpit, and I will repeat it today. It's to introduce a better pay system for the pedestrians in the police, in other words, police law enforcement, and give them a career path that allows them to know that by being out there among people they can develop careerably. They must not move into an office and leave the office. Introduce skills-building measures into it. It's a way to give a signal to the police force that will be welcomed there – I'm sure – and at the same time will work well out among the usual audience because you're strengthening the police that's out of the way. Then I am also fully convinced that if the Council of State now has the same strength as he has taken on civilian positions, it can look at the system of a senior policy, it will certainly be a lot to pick up from the police. We have seen the results of the project in Hordaland, where some leaders were allowed to continue, but not everyone else. There's a lot of strength to get into it. Then it's my vision – and there I know that we have common views with the Right Party and the Advance Party – that the police reserve intelligently used could contribute to something reasonable. There's a remarkable rigidity here in some legal unit of the Police Directorate. I would like to encourage the Council of State to conduct administrative massages on this, so that the police reserve is used in a good and wise way. It happened under Lillehammer-OL, and they even contributed during the Norway Cup. But then suddenly someone found out that it was hopeless when you volunteered on your own leisure time in the summer. That doesn't make sense. I think it is important in a debate like this to present forward-looking proposals, because, although we have political competition, we must also be able to be solution-oriented. I have tried to make my contributions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1494	I think it's a little regrettable that the Council of State is going to those degrees in the defensive position that he obviously doesn't hear what I'm saying. I have actually stood here and boasted that the recording at the Police College has become higher. I told you right-wing support. I've said it's great that there were 460 civil positions. I have said that the Right has given its support to it. But the government parties have to bear to hear that in the original budget that was treated before Christmas, there were therefore 20 civil positions from the Government and 160 from the Right. It's a truth you can't get out of, because it's both written and debated in the open room here in the Stortinget. Then I want to say that it is important to organize the police properly. And it's important for the Right that we don't organize the police away from the audience, away from the local environment and away from prevention, which the representative Chaudhry was so concerned about. When the Right says no, no, no, then the Center Party says no, no, no, and then the rapporteurs of different political colors also say no, no, no, because they feel that what is on the table in relation to Follo is unacceptable. When the Council of State now makes a big point that he will come back with the matter in St.prp. No 1, I ask: after all, there are still cases every day from the Ministry of Justice to the Stortinget to be dealt with before the Stortinget takes a vacation, and the revised national budget is right around the corner, why is this case not coming? Why don't we get a clarification on this before the elections? Or is it that you intend to do something that might not be so popular, so it is more convenient to postpone the matter to after the election? I do not think I have received an answer to what was my challenge to the Council of State today, namely the time window we have until 2012. It's said something about what's been done so far, but what's the grip we're going to take in the three years until we start harvesting the slightly larger coals from the Police College? Odd Einar Dørum was involved in some things here, but I ask: Is there any basis for being even more innovative about providing police support and muscles from other partners who can remedy the situation you are actually in? I think you should allow yourself, in the situation we're in now, to think in a little bit more untraditional paths than what we've done. Then I'll finally tell the representative Thomas Breen that it's almost so you don't believe what you hear. A short time ago, the Right got the best shot that we had been tidy and decent in the paycheck of the police, while the Progress Party had come out. So you have to decide what you actually think about that case. It's not easy to get wise. We have been very clear that we need a new working time agreement, and it must be in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1508	They have now emerged in the debate all the measures that have been taken. Measures are also pointing forward. So there's no one in this room, I get hope, who disagrees with the representative Aspacer now says, that you need a new agreement on working time. That's why we're sitting with the Police Joint Union and we're running a race in relation to it. We've been saying for the past six months that this race should be followed. We're not going to change the process at all. But I have registered that in the public space, other discussions are required into this – perhaps at another time as well – and my answer has been: this is something we get to take in time at our place. It has been quite obvious to the Government that there is a need for new working time regulations from 1 July. The representative of Breen was also concerned with the reasons why we have drafted the proposal that was being consulted on the regulation. I would like to see the justice politician in this room who would have been faced with a situation where from 1 July we did not have sufficient protection on the issue of working time regulations, and that we went without agreement. I believe the Government has done exactly what needs to be done to ensure it. Then I would like to say that the government's strategy with regard to police force is outlined in the report Police against 2020. I've been into education. We're going to keep going, and we're going to be good. So that's one of our future bets. Point 2: In the case of civil positions, we've come halfway. It's a signal that we want to keep doing that. We're going to follow very closely how these civil positions are used, so that we can free up the police capacity we want. We have also chosen to adhere closely to the negotiating rights of the Joint Police Association in connection with the phase-in of this, and to point out that this should be done in the right way. The third thing I want to mention is that we're always totally dependent on looking at how we use the police resources in a society. There comes the Follo discussion. You can choose to go constructively into this, as I see the representative Dørum does, or you can choose by every crossroads to make trouble and politics out of it. We believe that there is a potential in terms of how police resources are used out. It is clear that when rapporteurs in Follo express their wish that the police should also move out after the closure of the Länsmannskontoret, and you see a model where you spend the money differently and get one more Follo patrol, which can move out in the evening when criminal acts take place, that is a factor in the assessment that we need to have with us. Police force and local presence are also about many other things than just the office and the coffee truck. So we're also going to look at this in the operational review that we've notified about the Norwegian police, and that I have great expectations for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1521	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1537	I want to be so bold as to say that we are in a nation-building phase in Norway. Norway is seriously becoming a multiethnic society. The guest workers from the 1960s and 1970s have descendants who are now young from Tøen, Kväfjord and Lillesand. They are an indispensable part of our society, but my reverential claim is that we are not yet fully aware of this fact. Our daily debate, our tonefall, our vocabulary, and not least our deep scepticism to take structural action to make society more adapted to today's reality stab deep. I remember that during the last growing-up period, I promoted a sales of representatives with my colleague Karin Andersen, who asked that funeral routines and rules be looked at in Norway in order to make it easier for non-Christian citizens to feel at home. Only the SV representatives and the representative Jan Simonsen supported the proposal to look at what offers, for example: Hindus, Muslims and Bahais should have been associated with a difficult period of life. We have put behind us a demanding debate on whether Muslim women can be police officers while using skates. Many have been critical of the fact that the Defense and the Toll Service have allowed soldiers and officers to use religiously conditional garments such as skates and turbans. This requires that we continue the debate and try to raise it to a level that multicultural Norway and multicultural society deserve. We are, as I said, in a phase of nation-building where we must actively work for all citizens, regardless of religion, culture, race, skin color and lay, to feel at home in Norway. And SV is the first to take this challenge. Police are an important institution and a social institution. It is very important that the establishment becomes attractive to all citizens. It will serve the police and society too. It's not hard to understand that when our country now has 10 pst. citizens with ethnic backgrounds other than the majority, we need a police force that reflects it. A police force where Norwegian Pakistani, Norwegian Indians and Norwegian Somalis are employees will have a competence that is badly needed in the same society they are to serve. Policemen with a minority background will bring with them minority languages, cultural understanding and life experience that a citizen with a minority background has just brought with him. This will be a strength for the establishment. The ETA will be able to do its job more easily — both preventively and in an investigative manner. A police officer with Somali background, with language skills in both Swahili, Arabic and Norwegian, will have a advantage when working preventively in Skjervøy. It will give the local population a boost. Crime is known to have no borders — either linguistic, religious, ethnic or geographical. A strong local police force is needed to prevent crime. On Mount Drammen or Furuset in Oslo, it will undoubtedly be easier for children and young people with a minority background to come into contact with one with whom ethnic and linguistic identities can be identified. Beyond national borders, it is also important that we have a police force where people know other cultures, religions, codes, etc. We know that young people with a minority background have much less confidence in the police than young people with a majority background. There may be a lot of reasons for that. But the challenge lies there. SV clearly believes that if the police reflect the composition of society, trust in the police will increase. It will also contribute to the accusation of discrimination by the police because of skin color, race, etc. will decrease. Because when you are badly treated by a police officer with a majority background, you can misinterpret and think that this bad treatment is due to black skin color. But if the police officer has the same skin color as yourself, the focus must be on how the police as a trade union can get better. The police department is like all other workplaces and reflects society's attitudes. Recruiting young people with a minority background could help to reduce possible prejudices in the establishment. I've always thought that we never have to lower the skills requirements to integrate the minorities into society. I stand by that. They must meet the competence requirements as they exist. But then the question is, what is competence? How are requirements developed in relation to needs? For example, the Norwegian police were in need of: 30 years ago to understand how the Norwegian Somali family system works? Or did the police need special language skills 30 years ago to understand the language of a custody prisoner? The answer is obvious. Today, society is different from what it was 30 years ago. We must then emphasise the competence of Norwegian citizens today, in the light of our contemporary needs. In any case, the professional competence requirements must be established. The Judicial Committee visited the other day the Nord-Trøndelag Police Chamber. We know that the districts are struggling to recruit police. I asked the police room how they were doing recruitment work. The answer was that they were very active in local youth. They travel around to high school and market themselves as a good establishment and work. Through this they are able to get motivated local youth to take police training. The result is that when these young people have completed their education, several of them come home to the community as police officers. This serves everyone. This is an example of follow-up — including in the recruitment of young people with a minority background. The police must actively go to the local settings where young people with a minority background are located — schools, libraries, temples or mosques. It requires active promotion to recruit young people with a minority background to the police. Such dialogue meetings could also improve confidence in the police in general. Many of the minority youth come from countries where you have experiences with the police with whom you meet the Norwegian police. Cooperation between the refugee consultant and the local police may be important to change this view. For example, refugees may be revisited at the police station, dialogue meetings should be held, etc. I know that there are several places where such cooperation has been carried out, including: in Egersund. These are good measures that should be extended to several places in the country. We know that the police have a lot of staff with a minority background. They are good role models for young people with a minority background. Therefore, these staff must be actively employed. Oslo is the country's capital of immigrants. The Groruddalen is Norway in miniature. Some parts of Groruddalen have a relatively high proportion of young people with a minority background. This may be a very good recruitment spot for the police, but then young people have to see the police here in their everyday lives. A police college in the Groruddalen can help attract far more young people with a minority background than today. I know that the Oslo Police College focuses on recruiting more police students with a minority background. It is positive, but progress is slow. SV and I are impatient. My challenge to the Council of State is therefore: What does the Council of State think can be done to recruit more people with ethnic minority backgrounds to the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1573	I thank you for an important interpellation. It's important for the police that if we're going to work in society, we're going to recruit wider than what we're doing today. It will make it easier for the police to fight crime. But in this perspective, it is also important that all groups in society see to a much greater extent that they are represented in what is almost the strictest coercive authority we have. As you can see, there is a win-win insofar as we could succeed in recruiting more people with ethnic minority backgrounds to the police, with whom the interpellant is engaged. I want to make it clear from the outset that work on promoting an inclusive society, where everyone has equal opportunities to contribute and to participate in working and social life, is a high priority of the Government – and will be a high priority. In order for the police to act as an open and inclusive body, the establishment must reflect society in terms of sex, age and function, as well as in terms of social, ethnic and cultural background. This is about the fact that the police must have the experience of having different backgrounds, but also about the fact that the police should have confidence in all population groups, including the interpellant. As part of the Government's Action Plan for the Integration and Inclusion of the Immigrant Population and the objectives for the implementation of inclusion, from 2007, the Directorate of Police will increase recruitment and strengthen efforts to maintain people with migrant backgrounds. This work is also continued in Regeringen's work on a new action plan against ethnic discrimination. The aim of the plan is to prevent and combat the occurrence of indirect and direct ethnic discrimination. It is, as mentioned, a long-term objective that the proportion of employees with a minority ethnic background in the police should reflect society elsewhere. In 2008, the Police Directorate developed a diversity work plan — a very good plan. The aim of the plan is to target and systematise the work on diversity up to and including 2013. The strategy of work is to integrate diversity as a natural part of the ordinary business, which I also feel interpellant is concerned about. A central focus of the diversity plan is, of course, recruitment to the Police College and to the other department. Until now, however, the main field of action has been the recruitment of students to the Police College. For several years, the police high school has had active and systematic recruitment work aimed at ethnic minorities. In 2007, an advisory role for diversity recruitment was established. In the ‘Recruitment and Conservation’ project, police officers with ethnic minority backgrounds guided potential applicants to the Police College with a minority background. This may have contributed to the high number of 134 cases with a minority background applying for employment at the Police College in 2008. That's good. Out of 38 candidates participating in the project’s activities, 31 applied for a place at school. A total of 29 persons with a minority ethnic background were offered a place at the Police College in 2008, all of whom had participated in the project. It is a high figure compared to the previous one, and it shows that the project specified is working. In concrete terms, the number of minority students tripled at student admissions in 2007 and 2008 compared to 2006, i.e. a share of 6.7 pst. students with a minority background at the first stage of basic education. In addition, police higher education has strengthened its focus on increased presence in forums often used by young people with minority backgrounds. In 2007 a recruitment film was made that was shown in cinema. Police higher education has developed its web pages, where the minority perspective appears to be a natural part of its content. The target population is young people between 18 and 24 years of age. It's created a group on Facebook. The group is called the Police College and has over 200 members. It is young people with both ethnic Norwegian and ethnic minority backgrounds. Police high school deliberately uses students with a minority ethnic background at educational fairs, in meetings with student associations and on school visits. Information evenings are also organised for young people with a minority background and their parents. In order to ensure that today’s formal qualification requirements are the most suitable for recruiting the police officers who have requested, an investigation has been carried out to review the admission criteria at the Police College. As part of the anchoring of diversity work locally, the Police Directorate, in cooperation with the Police College, carries out dialogue meetings on the diversity of police districts’ leadership groups. Meetings focus on the need to mirror society and what greater diversity of employees will provide the service, in terms of increasing legitimacy among the population and the best possible use of resources by employees. So just a few words about the diversity work in the police in general. In September 2008, the Police Directorate presented its plan for the work on diversity in the Police and Linguistic College. The plan is drawn up on the basis of the ‘Overall Human Resources Policy for the Police and Linguistic Setaten’ and is the first key strategic plan in the police to cover the whole concept of diversity. The plan addresses gender equality, ethnic minorities, sexual orientation, senior policy and disability. The aim of the plan is, as I said, to target and systematise the work on diversity up to and including 2013. This means that attention must be paid to recruiting widely, but also to zero tolerance for racist attitudes and actions and discriminatory behaviour in the police. Employees must have basic values and knowledge to help achieve this objective. The concept of diversity is relatively new in the police. Previous gender equality work focused on gender equality, especially women’s career opportunities. As diversity began to be mentioned, it was often linked to cultural diversity and, to a lesser extent, to disability, age and sexual orientation. From 2006 onwards, these fields were brought together under the concept of diversity through the ‘Mangfold in the Police and Lone Civil Service’ project. The main objective of this initiative is to ensure the absence of discrimination on grounds of gender, ethnicity, function, religion, sexual orientation and age. The main objectives are as follows: We need to increase the recruitment of women, people with ethnic minority backgrounds and people with disabilities. We're going to increase the recruitment of women for leadership tasks and leadership positions, which we think the government is doing well, especially in terms of the number of police officers. We need to ensure diversity in team and project groups. We need to ensure knowledge in order to prevent racism and discrimination. The police have also put in place other measures that are relevant to the recruitment of the police. I would like to briefly, among other things. point to a central diversity committee that advises the Directorate of Police on diversity issues. The committee shall act as a resource which, on its own initiative and upon request, shall advise the Police Directorate on these matters. It has also been working as a minority advisor at the Oslo Police District since September 2007. The adviser is located in the strategic staff of the police chief and advises the management on issues related to police meetings with ethnic minorities, which, as the interpellant was involved, poses challenges. The police also have additional measures that affect confidence in the police in general. I would like to point out the Central Dialogue Forum – a forum between the Police Directorate and the Immigrant Organisations – which has four regular meetings this year, as well as local dialogue forums between all police districts and their local immigrant organisations. Furthermore, there is also a dialogue forum between policy management in the Ministry of Justice and regularly meeting immigrant organisations that provides safe and sound input. I would also like to point to the project «Security and trust». The Directorate of Police is, as I said, concerned that the Police and Len’s Senate should have confidence in the entire population. The Directorate therefore launched the project «Security and trust» in the autumn of 2008. The project is two years old, with four police districts and a special body selected to work on improvement areas in the meeting between the police and the immigrant population. The aim of the project is to create a trusting relationship between immigrants and the police. The work shall be evaluated and the results shall be included in an overall project report. The report shall provide a further basis for training and police work in a multi-ethnic society. The project will include, inter alia: test a training programme that the cooperation project ‘Recruit and maintain’ between the Police Directorate and the Police College is about to end. This is an awareness programme for police and relief workers. Training will also provide an introduction to the implications of discrimination. The project will continue in 2010. The deadline for implementation is set at 31 May 2010. The sum of all the measures described above assures me that the work done by the police will help the police to mirror the entire population, and also contribute to an inclusive and multiethnic society with great legitimacy towards those who serve to prevent criminal acts, thus creating more security. I would also like to stress that such work and all the measures now in place will also be able to take further action. It is intended that further action should be taken both to strengthen recruitment and to strengthen overall trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1640	One of my objectives in promoting this interpellation was and is to bring this debate on minorities into a positive path. As I was in my main post, the daily debate is far too negative. That's where we focus on everything that's wrong with the multi-ethnic, multi-ethnic society. That is why it is right and important for political leadership in this country to be able to raise the debate to another stage — a positive track — to see what positive values minorities represent in this country. I thank the Minister of Justice for a very good and important statement. A good part of the measures that this government has implemented, I knew from before. It also appears that these measures are working. The ‘Recruit and maintain’ project shows that there is a need to be a separate, active bet. It also shows that this type of action works when we are able to recruit so many people. The measures, attitudes and tracks are not different today from those we used 30–40 years ago to move women into society, into the workplace. Then I'm very happy that the Council of State decided that the police action should reflect the population's composition. It was just supposed to be missing, but it's very nice that the red-green government determines it. The councils were inside. I am also pleased that the Council of State announced that one should look at the competence requirements. I still insist that the skills requirements should not be lowered to recruit more people with a minority background to the police, but they must be synchronised with the reality of the day. Police must work with non-governmental organisations, such as the Organisation Against Public Discrimination, OMOD. I have a question at the very end of the council. The police now have 462 new civil positions. Will the Council of State work to ensure that people with a minority background who do not have police competence can be recruited into this quota, so that contacts between minorities and the police are increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1653	First of all, I would like to say in connection with the interpellant stressing that the debate around them with different national backgrounds is often negative, that we all have a responsibility to prevent this happening. For example, I can. mentioned asylum seekers. After all, the concept of asylum is an honor for those who really need asylum. But it's still so that a few very few destroy for large groups of people. That's why we have every interest in recruiting much wider than what we've done, in precisely reaping benefits by reducing crime, in creating more legitimacy for the police action as such, and also in raising important groups in society. Then I have to say that as far as the debate on recruitment to the Police College is concerned, that out in the public space has been produced as a particular positive. The officials and women who today have a different background from the traditional Norwegians are people who do a very good police job, and who have received good support from their communities and have been produced in a very right way. And on the part of the ministry, we have done what we can to help lift these, because they are important role models, and I perceive that there has actually been a decent social and political debate by saying that these are important measures. It's amazingly good policemen that we have around, and that have a different kind of background. We just need more of them. Then we have had a debate on these 462 posts. We aim for it to be published and recruited in an ordinary way. And when I say the ordinary way, I believe that this is the reason you should take when you recruit widely into the police. All the diversity work done, all the groups that have been set down, all the measures you are looking at, will have the same topicality in terms of the rest of the position in the police. I assume that when the police are about to hire, you do what you can in this field. But I'm going to take it with me, so that, while we're careful that these police positions are in favour of triggering police force, we also see that you've recruited as wide as you can within the framework and rules that apply to public employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1662	The new multicultural and multicultural Norway poses some challenges, and integration has become such a political mantra that everyone likes to talk about, but in practice it is inclusion in a democratic and open society, where there is room for ethnic and religious diversity, and where this diversity is seen as a potential rather than a burden. That's why I think this interpellation is joyous, because it highlights minorities as a potential and as a resource. I commend the interpellant for raising a very important and central debate in Norway in 2009, but I would also like to point out that I have noticed that on several occasions before this interpellation was raised, in public contexts, recruitment of minorities into the police is very important for this government. In a multicultural society, it is important that the occupational groups reflect our complex population. But some professions are more important than others. And in many ways, the police have more power and a more different power than other professional groups. In certain situations, police have the possibility of exercising legal coercion in order to protect citizens, i.e. the use of legal coercion for security reasons, and also to exercise this coercive force against the civilian population. This power is symbolically necessary, but it is actually also real. Then it is a great advantage, the Workers' Party believes, that the police have employees who reflect different faces, impulses, colors, religions and nationality backgrounds. In an inclusive society like Norway, the police uniform will have a special role and legitimacy. The task of a police officer is sometimes — and quite often — to intervene in conflicts between individuals or, in some cases, different social groups. Then, in 2009, a modern police force will have more confidence and provide more security if it also has a background that reflects the people with which it is to build trust and security. Of course, a multicultural police officer – a policeman or a woman – will also master more languages. I can't see that it's any inconvenience; it's more of an advantage. We know that today the police are using the interpreting service quite actively. Maybe they'll need less to do it if we have more policy winners and more language masters. It is important that we have a police force for everyone, a gathering and including police — not a divisive police — a police force that can create communication and trust between different groups. And it is in our interest that the minority and the majority are united in creating security in the cities of Norway today, that everyone – both the minorities and the majority – has an interest in creating security. It will be most visible in a powerful way if we have a police force that is collective and multicultural. A new generation of Nordics is growing up in Norway today, and in our school system, teachers with a minority background are good at whipping parents with a migrant background to attend parents’ meetings. We know that teachers with immigrant backgrounds are better off getting children to participate in swimming and camp school education. In that way, I also think it is an advantage to have a multicultural police force – in combating recriminalism, in having greater cultural understanding, and in entering into violence in close relationships. We know that the crisis centres in Oslo, Bærum and Asker are filled with minority women. We know that the police have to deal daily with conflicts in relation to housewives where minority women are overrepresented. Just as we need teachers with a minority background, we also need men and women with a police background because these young people who are growing up today need role models. A policeman and a politician will be fantastic role models for a young girl or boy growing up today in the new Norway. This interpellation is very, very good. I notice that it is doing very well in this field now, but we still have a way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1681	This is a debate that many believe is important. I have to say, however, that I reacted a little to the use of words in the interpellation, where it is a ‘police in which all the colours of Norway are represented’. I don't know if I and Akhtar Chaudhry disagree, but I'm not so busy with colors. I'm more concerned with the police and the role of the police. He also says that we are in a nation-wide construction phase. I don't know if he agrees that the nation is built. That doesn't mean we're not going to renew ourselves and at the same time take care of the basic values of society. Just a lot of the basic values of society, a common multiple of the values of society, are gathered in the police. This is also why the police have confidence and trust everywhere. That is why I am also very concerned with the neutrality of the police — for example. which Chaudhry was in – in relation to police clothing and how to use it or not to use it. It was also interesting to hear the previous speeches, which mentioned this with the overrepresentation of women at receptions of violence. I wonder how one would react if a politician who was going to clean up, for example. in a house fight, had come with the hijab. What trust do you have or do you not have? But I'm not going to make this a hijab debate, because I think it's important to recruit from all walks of life. Then we have to look at what's recruiting. I actually don't think the immigrant population, or the minorities that you refer to them as here, are so different from all of us. In the previous interpellation, among others: The doorway to this with a training course and a career run, so that you can have a permanent career in the police. I also think the immigrants are just as concerned about it as all of us. Maybe you should also differentiate police education, so that you get an invading sport with a short education where you can see if this is a job you like. Of course, it is also important to have knowledge of minorities. It also brought up the Progress Party in the police mission, and said that knowledge is important. There's a lot to do. But that doesn't mean that you have to discriminate or relax on the requirements, but maybe you have to adapt the requirements to a different situation. I rather think it is important to look at what it is that recruits. In the last Police Forum there was a politician, Jasmina Ahmadi, with Iranian background. She was involved in the hijab debate, and she told me why she wanted to become a police officer: it was because of the first meeting with the police. That's why how the police appear, and the fact that it's a near-police, is very important. That's what creates trust. If your first meeting with the police is positive and you meet the police in situations other than when crime is committed, it will create confidence – not only in the immigrant population but also in the population. That's why I think it's very important to build skills in that area, but also to have a more visible police force. It's just like in every other social debate. That is why the question is: do we really need a separate debate on the participation of immigrant groups in the police? I actually think it's the same as everyone else's involvement in the police. You have to look at what can be recruited to the police. A short time ago, we had a proposal from the Progress Party here in Stortinget, which was annexed to the Minutes, to remedy the crew crisis. I think immigrants, on the same line with others, are busy with this. Do you want to get into the police? If you want the best equipment, the police will have the best cars, will you get interesting tasks in the police? All these are immigrants just as busy as everyone else. I think that's what needs to be focused on, not on some kind of adjustment of the police, but that the police appear to be an attractive workplace in every way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1694	On a vacation a few years ago, I met an American with extensive experience in the oil industry. He sighed heavily and said that one of the problems of the United States – in a related area to what we are now talking about – was that the CIA consisted largely of Irish Catholics. He sighed and said, "We have a problem." We can turn it around and say that if those who represent society -- and especially when we talk about important social institutions like the school and the police -- don't in total get all parts of society, situations can arise where you start to say them and we. Fortunately, it is still the case in Norway that it is largely not. But there are some exceptions. Let me start with two angles of incidence. One is what the police are going to do themselves. I think that is well described by the Council of State and by the inter-pellant. I think it's nice to see that experience with recruitment measures is always so high that you start to get pressure where you feel it can give a countdown. But at the same time, it is important to point out the discussion that is taking place around dinner tables in environments that do not belong to majority groups in Norway. Just as it doesn't matter how you talk about teachers and schools around those tables, it's pretty important that you're aware of how to create a reputation. Reputation is created in two ways. Of course, it is created by those in the establishment – how they behave, education and recruitment are important – but reputation is also created in all the contexts in which they meet. I have e.g. have attended quite a number of meetings in Pakistann student communities, which regularly engage in motivational seminars about this time of year, and it is probably already held. There I have seen most occupational groups. I've seen people with police backgrounds, I've seen a lot of lawyers. But it's clear that there's some sort of breaking against what some a little bit of self-ironic calls the Ali subjects: you're going to be a lawyer, a doctor, and an engineer. There's something about making the position known and realizing that this is a college education. It is not all over the world, but it is in Norway. There's something about what we can call the construction of the reputation. Let me do an example that's incredibly good. I was here at the Stortinget and saw the recording of the tumults in the first demonstration in connection with the war in Gaza. I know so much about the police that I saw how restrained they were until the tear gas came. It is clear that then things happened that were wrong. But then we get a dialogue in Norwegian in the House of Literature, where the police suddenly realize that there is no point in slang kissing and giving a pat on the shoulder to the naughty with hijab – that's not the style. When someone passes it on to the police, they lay all the way down and say, "I'm sorry, this was hopeless." And after they do that, which is a significant strength for all parties, they become heroes. Then suddenly people start talking about that yes, but in all the world what a difficult job you had, etc. There's something about being so good at it that you can see when you've done something stupid. So it's the build-up of competences in politics, and in different parts of society you have people who are able to nuance and set up. I think it's part of the reputation of the Norwegian police, although it's not the uniformed part of the police, when PST Chief Holme meets up in Muslim Student Communities and with quite a broad pen tells how many people are not being monitored – most of them – and how few it is that will be. One of the most uncontroversial things you can say about hijab in police terms is that PST needs someone who has it because a PST person is going to reflect all parts of the population. To say that a little bit of a joke: you can kind of not dress people like thai, you have to have a context that makes different parts of the population come in. That's where the hijab debate right now is completely uncontroversial in a police context, but it gives exactly that shade. I find it encouraging for me to hear the experiences of the recruitments over many years, as the Council of State took up. So I just want to encourage it to keep the pressure. And then at the same time, I will send a message to all of us that we are responsible for reputational construction wherever we are. Because that way we get recruited teachers, for that matter, but also police, and we need it. I affirm, as I also perceived that Akhtar Chaudhry said, that it is not a matter of having any relaxation on neither mental nor physical demands. Is it possible for so many women to get in, who have happened, into the police — and that was not given a few years ago — we are able to recruit people with a minority background as well. It's going a little late in Norway, but then it suddenly loosens up. There is now my optimistic hope in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1707	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I don't want to give up anything, but I note that some important parties did not participate in this debate, which should have been seen to be a very important debate when 10 pst. of the country's population has a minority background, and when Oslo has 36 pst. students with a minority background. It shows the interest around the theme. I am of the opinion that we need to keep focus on certain debates, and debate and discuss until the topic is out of date. Recruiting minorities into society is an important topic. It is then right that we, on the SV side, take this debate – it is for example. in the terminology and concepts. The representative Vogt used the term housework. We've gone away from that. It's not house fights, it's violence against women and children, it's violence in close relationships. It's because we've had a debate around it, and because we've had a focus on it, it's just important to focus on how to move this society forward in the same direction together. How are we going to get the minorities into society? That's why this is very important. Then we develop the whole debate, and then we agree. I and the Council of State agree that we should not ease the requirements of competence, but they should be brought into line with the reality of the day. We have to say, what do we need today? Maybe that's not what we needed a long time ago? Then I thank the Council of State for all the good measures that the department is running. I have visited the Police College two or three times. I'm going to go there again. SV is going to keep focus on this because many people think that when we go there with a minority background, it's because we want to give some benefits to the minorities. It is possible, but above all, we are concerned about how the community can benefit from all the values and competences that this society together represents. That's why it's important that we withdraw the minorities. Then we have to keep our focus up and do what we can to make the police act a state that has all the colors in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1716	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1732	I have chosen to leave this as open as it might be, because the Interpellation Institute in Stortinget gives access to a lot, but it also gives access to reflection. That's why I have reported the interpellation in the way I have done. First a little bit about the rug: I have been responsible in previous parts of my life for getting the institute with fictional identity. In other contexts, I have been involved in action plans against violence in close relationships and worked with code 6, code 7, etc. – the various measures taken to help women who have been refugees. I know of other measures, such as restraining visits, mobile violence alarms, etc., but not least, to sharpen it against this interpellation: I have actually met some of the first police informants, who actually had a rather pale fate, in the sense that they were dependent on some individuals in the police who knew them. And if the individual wasn't there, they had a demanding life. I must admit that has made an impression on me. I just met a woman who told me that once a year she went with the folder saying – and that's not the PST folders we're talking about, but the folder with all the documents about her life – to keep her address bar. She then walked to her person in the police, walked to the various floors, back and forth, and had to tell the story over and over again. I have previously asked a question about this to the Council of State and received a real and correct answer that this needs to be changed. When we in Norway get into the situation that we're going to do something about fictional identity, it just tells us that there's a new culture for us. In some contexts of my life, I have visited police units in other countries that have both witness protection programs and programs where police officers are like the police agents in the Australian TV series and run ‘undercover’. There is no doubt about how demanding it is to drive, for example. a witness protection programme. Policemen in that program also have to live a different life in a way so that they do not expose people to whom they are going to help. When the issue of witness protection arose ten years ago, it matured until the fictitious identity mission dating from 2004. At the time, I was conscious – in another role in my life – that it had to apply, for example. policemen who had come into a life-threatening situation because of the job, that there had to be informants that I had met, and that in some cases it could also apply to women who were exposed to violence in close relationships. So I'm the first one to admit that we're not talking about a business that can have a lot of scope, because the demands we make to people who are going to live with fictitious identity, if you think about it first, is that you just have to break. You get a new name, you get a new birth number – you just have to be unrecognizable. You're actually dead to people you've had a relationship with. You have to choose another life. Norway is too small in many respects. That is why, with my general understanding from previous parts of my life, we have cooperated with other Nordic countries. In some cases, we can do so in a European context. But you can never move a person to a place where it's striking. In such cases, you have to come to a place where it seems quite reasonable and natural. My meeting with some women on the run makes me, of course, concerned about what is going to happen so that they will not be subjected to harassment within the borders of the legal state. It is true that a violent person, no matter how violent the person is, is innocent until the opposite is proven. You can never go away from that. There is, of course, a series of measures that can be discussed. But in the extreme sense, it is people who live under the need for protection. So I'm essentially challenging the council to reflect along two lines. One line is the one where you take the fictional identity completely out, which is the ultimate form of protection. I would like to ask the Council of State at least to confirm that, in principle, this still applies, for example. policemen in different parts of their lives — perhaps for that matter prison staff and informers, but also women who have been subjected to violence in close relationships. I would also ask the Council of State to reflect on the other arrangements we have, in particular the address blocking arrangements, which sometimes seem a little crooked. I have noticed that you have to go from a public register check to the police. I see it as a significant force. But then it has to be a point, if you're going to be there and not get completely new identity, to create computer systems in our country so that you don't have to walk with the 'folder' to Nav, to the social office or where it might be. It must be possible to create computer systems that do what I assume is possible in some contexts, allowing a certain number of individuals to exist, because in a country like Norway, with its entire safety net – which is a completely different system from what you have in the United States – you can give people a life. But they must be protected against the insight of that life as a result of this decision. It has to be like this. I remember from the past in my life that it was not always as good to have a debate with the Ministry of Finance on all aspects of these questions. It is as demanding in this area as it was in the time of the debt regime law. It was easier to get private creditors to surrender – then the Loan Fund, the House Bank and finally the Tax Agency. Here, too, it has to be possible to ensure that the systems are so comprehensive that if you first have something, you have to have your lead officer, man or woman, in a police system that has an administrative grip on address barriers – you get a new name, but is not completely in the same situation as in a situation with a fictitious identity – that makes people avoid walking in these dangerous situations because it leaks out. The woman I met had experienced everything leaking out all the time. Now it was so that he who had plagued her died for a while back, and at the end of his life he was also in such a state that he could not plague her any more. But before it had this nightmare was for quite a long time, with all the arrangements you had, but with a leak in the system that was worrying. I am very pleased that the Police Directorate says about the phenomenon of fictitious identity – i.e. those who have come up with it – that there are no cases where there have been leakages. But I remember a story about a woman who stood up in the VG, who I shouldn't stay for too long. She had police protection. She stood up to tell her story over two pages. I was contemplative of that report. When I was called by the newspaper, I said nothing, i.e. I said that I expected those who were responsible for this to know what they were doing, and that they would handle it right – point. That's the closest you get a non-response when you first have to be polite and don't go into it in any other way. I don't want to hide that in this interpellation I am also inspired by a very serious series that Stavanger Aftenblad has been driving, where one has tried to shed light on concrete initiatives, and where one has been very concerned about the solutions. I am also pleased that the Ministry of Justice has struck through an administration that I did not understand, where the Directorate of Police would not be able to deliver data – I am sure that the Council of State will take a closer look at that in its reply to me. I don't understand! After all, the Council of State shall be commended for being a Council of State which has stood on this interlocutory and ensured that the budgets of the PST have become known. The Council of State is also to be commended for knowing a few months ago how many people are exposed to space listening per. years, etc. There's an insight that the social debate can take, and we can always screen those parts of this that no one should know. It's good to know that something exists, but you don't have to know something. On this basis, I have therefore presented two reflections. One is my invitation to the Council of State to reflect on the phenomenon of fictitious identity and any development of it – and I ask him to confirm the different categories that can in principle come under this – and then his thoughts on how other schemes, especially address-blocking schemes, can be developed in such a way as to avoid the humiliation that I have experienced that concrete persons have lived with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1760	I thank you for the opportunity to respond to this interpellation, because I believe it is an important and nuanced interpellation. We're facing questions that are very difficult to answer well, in the sense that you have to find good solutions for those who have the needs behind the interpellant's engagement. It's sometimes important to be humble about sometimes not being able to find the optimal solution to difficult situations, but it's always a potential to do it better. We see that the scope of threats to actors in the judicial system and to people such as have increased in recent years and the need for assistance has increased. These developments have led to changes in the law that have provided a better opportunity to both persecute the perpetrators and protect witnesses, including those in prison. initiated by the previous government, but continued by our government. In several European countries, own witness protection programmes were established at the end of the 1990s, and recommendations for the establishment of national witness protection programmes were made by the Council of Europe in 1997. The recommendations of the Council of Europe refer to evidence of serious crime, particularly organised crime, but also in the context of violence in close relations and trafficking in women. These are important areas, and I can confirm that these are also areas that we in the Government believe we should be able to cover up with very strict instruments. We are also going to discuss this in the Council of Europe later, which I will come back to. In Norway, national guidelines on witness protection were laid down in a separate instruction from the Directorate of Police in 2003 — which is well known to the interpellant — and include, in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, actors in the judicial system, police informants and persons exposed to violence in close relations. Police work on the protection of vulnerable persons is established at two levels of responsibility — a local level where police districts are responsible for the care of vulnerable persons, and a national level where the national witness protection unit in Kripos has a follow-up responsibility in relation to vulnerable persons, which is part of the national witness protection programme. The national witness protection programme includes the possibility of using methods where a notional identity is one of the measures that can be assessed. No threat included in the national witness protection programme has ever been identified or revealed by threators or others. Police districts use so-called local measures such as mobile violence alerts, relocation, restraining visits, patrols/guards, as well as address bar or protection of personal data in the public register. Unfortunately, information from, for example: The public register base has moved to both public and private actors to an extent that could be very unfortunate for a threat. This must be avoided at all costs in order to ensure the effectiveness of the action. So, as of today, the decision-making authority for address barriers is attached to the Central Office for People's Registration. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate of Police, in cooperation with the Directorate of Taxation, is now working to facilitate the transfer of this decision-making authority to the police, which was also the subject of the inter-pellant. The police will thus be more able to provide vulnerable people with a contact point for information, advice and individualised security measures. Similarly, in consultation with the vulnerable, the police will be able to better assess which combinations of security measures are most appropriate to address the security needs and the life situation of the vulnerable. A proportion of those at risk today are only granted address barriers from the Central Office of the People's Registry without contacting the police. Following the transfer of the decision-making authority and the so-called mailbox function associated with the responsibility for postal services in the context of an address barrier, the vulnerable person will receive police assistance to assess the need for further action by the police, but also advice on self-action. And I think that's crucial if you're to make sure you're safe from the gaps we've seen. I underline it! This work is very important and, in my opinion, the procedures currently being developed will be better suited to ensuring the safety of those at risk, including at local level. Victims of violence in close relationships, including victims of coercion and sexual mutilation, are a particularly vulnerable group with a high need for protection. Figures from Kripos show that out of a total of 32 victims of killing in Norway in 2008, six women were killed by partners or former partners. A total of 82 women have been killed by partners or former partners in the period 1997–2008. The number has remained stable for the last ten years, but is too high. Killing women where the perpetrator is a partner or a former partner, amounted to between 20 and 30 pst. by the killings each year during this period. Here we need to improve the knowledge base, which the interpellant has also been concerned about. I will not go into what is now being done, because it is known to Stortinget that initiatives have been taken, and also started, monitoring the killing cases where the perpetrator is the victim’s current or former partner – among others. a doctoral student project, but also an in-depth analysis that I do not go into. It's important to ensure that we have good skills, even in terms of the means we're actually going to use, whether they're mild or strict. In addition, the Police Directorate will carry out two pilot projects in Oslo and Follo police districts, respectively, with the testing of a registration tool, called SARA-PV, called the Spousal Assault Assessment Guide - Police Version, which helps the police to assess the risk of future serious partner violence by identifying risk signs. The police in Sweden and Canada have good experience of this, and the aim is to provide the police with a good tool in Norway too to prevent serious violence in close relations. The project shall be continuously evaluated by the School of Police in view of the preparation of a proposal for a national implementation plan. The use of protective measures has also been central to the Police Directorate’s new guidance for work on violence in close relations, from March 2009, which is a follow-up to the Government’s work in this respect. It provides a comprehensive description of the various safeguards and provides for the establishment of procedures for the control and registration of a visit ban. The supervisor is one of several measures to increase the level of competence of police and community co-operators. The question of notional identity as a safeguard raises a number of issues, and the interpellant points to it. On the one hand, this measure is clearly the most effective form of protection in the sense that it will no longer be traceable in public registers and thus be ‘deleted’. It is fitted with a new name, personal identification number and new personal data in examination papers, work certificates, baptism certificates, etc. However, in order for a notional identity as a protective measure to have the effect we want, it is required that the person to be protected breaks any contact with past life, circle and family. In addition, in many cases they will also be required to leave the country. Norway is a small country with few inhabitants, and it is very difficult to establish effective witness protection within its borders. As a result, such a change of identity will have major psychosocial consequences for the vulnerable. He/she needs to rethink his/her life and, in addition, must live in constant readiness not to reveal his/her past life to new friends and acquaintances. This is a very low load, and should therefore only be used in exceptional cases, i.e. not in large quantities, which were also covered by the interpellant, where all other protective measures have been assessed and found not to provide sufficient protection. I have been informed by the Police Directorate that from 2004 to today there are 16 applications for fictitious identity, based on the police code chapter. IIa, received from the police districts. I think it is important to publish this, because it also says something about the action as such. Of these 16 applications, seven have been granted, three have been withdrawn, four have been rejected and two applications are currently pending. I have also asked for these figures to be made available to the media – which I already understand is. I have therefore previously provided insight into a letter from the Directorate of Police dealing with the types of measures that can be taken, decision-making procedures, etc. I would also like to stress the importance of general transparency around the measures available to provide the necessary protection to those who are exposed. To me it seems like a great paradox that it is the threatened one who must bear the burden. It may not be true that it is the person who is being threatened, who is to be ‘helped’ on the run, or in the utmost consequence had to give up his whole life and have to start over. In my view, therefore, the effort in the future must also be built more strongly around measures aimed at limiting the freedom of movement of the perpetrator of violence – not the threat. Typical examples of this are the prohibition of visits and contacts, even at home, and after each introduction of a system of electronic control of the perpetrator. There we are waiting for a technological clarification. The size has done the job in relation to the allocation, and a legal side is also in good process, but we are totally dependent on getting technology on which we can be safe. That's why it's gone beyond what I wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1800	I am pleased with a very solid response that I have received from the Council of State. I think we have to differentiate between situations. If you, for example, I think we are in the vicinity of very serious, internationally organised crime, among other things. talks about how we can protect those who will testify to the state of law with regard to informants. I think the Council of State has described it in an excellent and good way. In other situations, such as sexual harassment, trafficking in human beings and violence in close relationships – the Council of State cited examples confirming what I asked for – there will be more complex situations. But I think there's one thing that's very important, and that's that if you get a contact in the police, it's the contact you have with the Norwegian administration system. I'd like to ask the Council of State to confirm it, because if you don't have to go around these hikes. One has to find some way to deal with the various issues throughout. You have to be able to do that, just because it's about the credibility of our society to be able to stand up, and because in our society we have resources that can be available to people in a normal life – but the special thing in life here is that you, for example. in address barrier situations, etc. shall be able to live that life properly. So I think it is very important to stress – which I hope the Council of State can confirm – that there will always be a contact person in the police to whom you can relate. I think that's also very important if you're on the simpler parts of the scale. Let me take an example – which is beyond the interpellation: a mobile violence alarm actually requires a kind of routine for you to know what it is and what it is not. If I'm going to say something about it, it must be that there's a routine that needs to be repeated at some type of repetition course at regular intervals. If not, the type of routine you should not use in most cases too many times, in the forgotten book. I think it is very important in that way that security is created when you want to incorporate the system that the Council of State talked about, that the address lock-down systems went from the People's Register and went to the police. I found it very good to hear that the tax authorities also agreed to this. They must always be with us – they are the ones who persecute us longer than most. So it finds a solution. So I just hope that the Storting can get information about these types of actions in an appropriate way later. As other information is included in St.prp. No 1, this could be something that's included, because then it's something that the Storting knows about. There is something you can follow up on, and you can contribute to what the Council said in reply to me, to improve arrangements that are well intended. But I think it is very important to stress what the Council of State said, that where there has been a fictitious identity, you do not know that there has been any discrepancy, and that is good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1813	I just have to repeat that it is good that this is raised in the public, both by the media and by us here in the Stortinget, because it is such that the measures that when they get run the risk that they will not get the necessary reflection and debate that they deserve. That's what I think is good, and I like to take the challenge of reporting on this in a suitable form to the Storting during the fall, so that we can see how this develops, especially now that it's being developed, and you can see that, among other things. shall move decision-making powers, etc. I also think it is essential that we have this debate, because the big challenge for us is actually to create alternatives to what we often experience as the most severe, and that can be tempting at the moment, but that can be very difficult. My description of fictional identity and what it really means shows that it is an instrument that ‘frames’ very much those who are exposed to it. That is why we must never give up thinking about alternative measures. There are everything from Alternatives to Violence to prevent these mobile violence alarms and what we are now getting into place, namely a new generation of violence alarms. So the interpellant also mentions a relationship that I believe is very important when you also look at decision-making authority. It is: How do we deal with the offended in these matters, especially violence in close relationships? But I also underline that this applies to other types of witnesses, and that applies to police officers. We have the opportunity to give them more stable and predictable service at the police station, for example. one contact person. I believe that the review we are about to have of the police operating situation will also help shed light on how we meet people who are in this kind of situation – we are totally dependent on that. I believe that some of the best self-prevention we can have in relation to as far-reaching instruments as this is to provide good guidance and dialogue and security in meeting with the police. So I'm going to help that there is also further action taken in relation to it. Finally, I would like to say that this is a matter, especially of violence against women and children, which is still being debated not only in Norway but also in other countries. That is why, in the light of this interpellation and that this has been raised as a political question, I want to address this issue, these cross-cutting interests we see in relation to instruments, but also in relation to the actors in it, victims and perpetrators, in a debate we are going to have with the other European Justice Ministers who come to Tromsø this June, because I believe that we can make representations to others, but we can not least also gain experience from the situation in other countries. So this will be a separate topic that I will raise when we convene European Justice Ministers' meeting in Tromsø in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1824	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately over. The meeting will be cancelled, and a new meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1858	The interpellant travels a very important issue and an important matter, which we have to take very seriously. The fact that we have to give the best possible help to make people feel safe is clear. In the interpellation, it is shown that this concerns whether one is a witness to a criminal case, is the police who need to have a fictitious identity or to be under witness protection, and violence in close relations. I want the main emphasis on violence in close relationships. The starting point for these issues is that we have to try to find measures at the lowest possible level. The Workers' Party also wants to extend the use of the tools to limit the freedom of movement of the threater. We can use a restraining order, or we can use a reverse violent alarm. As the Council of State was in it, we are waiting for a technology that is good enough to implement it, just to turn it around a little bit, so that it is not the victim of violence who must constantly be on the run, and who must limit his freedom of movement, but that we can also put some of the burden on the threater. In terms of notional identity, it is a very comprehensive measure. You have to break up with family, and you have to replace your whole life story. Clearly, this is an effective method of protection, but it will have major psychosocial consequences. In those cases where children are also involved, these shall also exchange their life history and start all over again. Norway is a small country, and if we are to make this work, we also need to move abroad. As has been pointed out earlier, no one has been on this programme in Norway, which has been revealed. However, as the interpellant was also involved, there are other measures, code 6, which have also been used in Norway, where one lives at a strictly secret address. I've read the book for Eva, who came to Oslo 17 years old and fell in love with Petter in 21 years. It turned out that this relationship was going to be very turbulent, with a lot of violence and uncertainty. She's been on the run in Norway from this Petter for 20 years. At that time she has gone from office to office with her papers, on which the interpellant was in, and repeatedly had to tell her story in order to extend the arrangement to be in a strictly confidential address. You had to do that once a year. We've changed that. Every three years, you have to go and, if necessary, ask to have the system renewed to be in a secret address. Some people also think it's too small, but at least it's a step in the right direction. Eva had a daughter, who was also with her on this flight. Obviously, it's demanding to be part of such a journey. In these 20 years, Eve has moved 45 times. This is because of another human being, who has been close to her, who threatens her life. This person, Petter, when he walked away not long ago, had 257 criminal cases registered on him. What can we do to prevent others from experiencing this round that Eve had to go through? The government has presented a turning point, which is an action programme with 50 actions specifically addressing violence in close relations. We also need to change who will be responsible for these matters where you have to live in a strictly confidential place. Police are supposed to be responsible, not the Central Office for People's Registration. We're going to get a police record law, which will make it easier to see who goes in and looks at any addresses. Obviously, when you have leaks from the public register, it's not good enough. If you are to live and have security where you live, we must have a system that is more waterproof. So it's important to know who to deal with, the police, and not to tell their story several times. I also want to give tribute to the Council of State. He has raised this issue, violence in close relations, nationally. I was even in Fusa yesterday, a municipality of 3,800 people, who had violence in close relationships as the theme of an open meeting. Much of the honor goes to the Council of State, which has managed to lift this, which has been a taboo area, and that we now do not say house noises, but say that there are criminal acts, which are to be prosecuted. That the Council of State also takes it up at international level, I think is priceworthy. We still have to keep working to get the best possible measures for these women and children. We see that there have been several reports of violence in close relations, and several messages to the Children's House, for example. in Bergen, about children who are exposed to violence. The fact that we have debates and interviews on this in Stortinget is important to make it clear that this is something we believe to be serious and criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1881	It's a very important thing that the interpellant has brought up here. It has a background in several queries, for example: in Stavanger Aftenblad, which has resulted from this interpellation, and also a Document No. Eight proposals from the undersigned, to be examined by the Judicial Committee. The headlines we have seen in the media have highlighted the daily lives of people in Norway who are on the run and live in hiding. It's very serious things we're talking about. The result of what Stavanger Aftenblad was able to produce is seen in the headlines: ‘They went to cover – but we found them in one day’. ‘Escapes from the ex-husband — do not get a fictional identity’. These people live a life in constant fear of being discovered by it or those they hide from. There is a great mental strain, and a poor starting point for the children involved in such cases. The Secretariat of the Crisis Centre now complains to Norway before the UN Commission on Women. When you are forced to live in refuge and in hiding, you are not close to having a normal private life despite Norway being one of the freest countries in the world. There is no doubt that the perpetrators have better legal certainty than the victims. A great cross of thought in this matter is that even those who live in hiding often experience great challenges in meeting public institutions. It appears that public representatives do not fully know how to treat people living in hiding and that their rights are therefore weakened. There have been suggestions for the police to take over part of this. Then you can also read what Gerd Fleischer, head of SEIF – Self-help for immigrants and refugees – says, that it is deadly to let the police take over address barriers. One of those things says that it's actually a full-day job in itself to be on the run. Another cross of thought is that victims of violence in close relationships get very little fictitious identity. Today we can also read in the newspapers that 7 out of 16 applications have been granted. Then there are three who have pulled it, and four are for treatment. It is a serious intervention, but those who have applied for such a fictitious identity have also thought carefully about why they applied for it. It turns out it's easier in Sweden to get fictional identity. For people living in hiding, life with a fictitious identity and a hidden residence address leads to a large additional strain. The people involved have in many cases been in relation to where violence, threats and abuse have been strong factors. When they get out of this relationship, they often feel that the perpetrator will leave prison without any further concern, while the victims will have to continue to live in hiding for a longer period of time. This seems very unreasonable to the victims who have done nothing wrong. In many cases, those who have lived in a hidden place experience that their protection is too poor, so that the attacker has been able to find them. It's an important question that's being addressed today. And we're probably going to have more debates on this in the future. It's important to them. We have to put in place a real protection for those who need it, and for those who want to get a fictional identity, there must be no obstacles in the way. We need to review the methods we have to hide people, and make sure their protection is good enough. Finding one is one too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1902	I want to read a letter for the Stortinget that I received from a engaged woman who is concerned about this topic. She writes: «In my work as a supervisor, I have had clients who live in fear of threats from violent family members and who have had to live with many security routines in everyday life in order to be safe. Three years ago, three families in my circle witnessed the discovery of a serious family violence in which the husband had for a long time committed serious violence and serious killing threats to his wife. It had gone so far that in a summer company she chose two people she thought should know what she was exposed to, and who could tell her story to her nearest family and police, if she was killed. One of the people who got the story was me. That night and night, I chose to put on the ‘job mode’ and entered the guidance role and concentrated only on working so that she would mobilize forces to break out of the relationship in a ‘safe way’.’ She goes on to write: "We had followed up this woman over several weeks and finally came the time when she had the power to escape and where there was an apparatus ready for her. [[and professional parties whom we contacted as a doctor, employer and guardian]] I'm sure it was in the count's time. We also tried to help the perpetrator get help and assistance, through dialogue with his network, which he rejected in cash. A year and a half later, the perpetrator was sentenced to acquittal in prison and 80,000 in compensation for the victims of violence for the episodes that could be documented. This was the spouse's number two he had committed violence against over many years." She continues to write, and here we come to the heart of the matter we are now discussing: «We are 3 families who have subsequently received very unpleasant threats that he will destroy our families, after we bisto the woman and were listed as witnesses in the case. Of course, we have a house alarm, informed our employers, the school of our children, etc. It has been very uncomfortable for us and I can only imagine how this woman and other women in the same situation are doing. This woman, despite the restraining order, has repeatedly been visited by her former husband and he has also visited her home and left her a "visit card" so that she will understand that he has been there. Now he's forced to go to a psychiatric hospital after he's settled. As I said, this is a very important and complicated matter to solve. It is very important that violent people do not succeed in more violence and threats to the victims of violence.’ I'll finish the quote here. This is a small country, and our conditions are very transparent. It's very hard to get hidden here. It is a question of providing vulnerable people — especially women, and in general women and children, but also men — with security, which may be the most important thing in life. You have to be able to sleep safely, and you have to be able to wake up safely. These are people who have been subjected to violence in close relationships. It concerns young people who are subject to forced marriage. This applies to young people who are undergoing sexual mutilation, for example: police or other witnesses who have worked on a matter. Then it's very important that you work to increase your skills on what we can do to give people security in our country. We need to strengthen our position everywhere, but not least in the environment in question, including the environment. in the human environment, so that violence decreases. We need to investigate, and we need to punish harder. There's no hokuspokus, which many people have been in. It's a complicated area of business with complicated solutions. That's why it's important that we keep focus up and debate it. I want to commend the interpellant for bringing this important and complicated theme into the Storting. We have to work on this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1926	It is easy to understand why much of the debate has come to be about violence in close relationships and the outbursts of it. I will not take it now, even if it is relevant what has been recorded. I want to focus on the situations in which you are exposed to organized crime, of which there are many different versions. It may be related to drugs, it may be human trafficking, etc., or cases where the situation is so extreme that protection is required. Then we have two sets of tools. We have a fictitious identity, as described, and the state council has responded very adequately. Then we have the code 6 situation. I'm very concerned and I'm sure the Council of State will look at the fictional identity and review the seven cases, so you know what it was like. But I have great respect for the fact that you should understand that this is such a special and demanding and extreme situation that people need to know what it is. The more important is that the next degree, i.e. code 6, is actually directed in such a way that there are no leaks in security, and that it is, must not go shopping on its own behalf from one office to another. Someone has to do it for them. The data solutions to ensure access to this – our society works a lot on data – must be such as to avoid that shopping round. These are the administrative handles. That is why I thought it was so good that the Council of State said that the tax authorities are also part of the group that is now looking at how to improve the scheme we have had. After all, everyone knows that the tax authorities are persecuting you longer than they are. I'm not going to elaborate on it any more. I can only trust the assembly that it was where I had the toughest roofs when this scheme was introduced in 2004. This is very important. I'll end by saying that when fictional identity came in its time, it was because in Norway we had to expect that we would get publications of organized crime. It was a public debate in connection with, for example, The NOKAS case. To put it as it said in the media, was it the case that those behind the NOKAS case had contact with the Albanian League that held in Gothenburg and that we have seen carry out about the same action in Gothenburg as the one that was carried out in Stavanger? In Sweden, the armed robbery is taking place on a scale that we do not yet have in Norway – a bank in this pulpit, President. What to do when faced with such environments? They'll be able to follow you far. We know that Anoshe, who was shot outside the warehouse in Kristiansund in 2002, was in a situation where she unfortunately expected it to go like this. She was busy with her kids. It's been preserved by Norwegian society. I think it is good that we have had a broad debate. But I want to return to where I was, and I want to basically say thank you for getting this reflection. I note that the Council of State has said in the past that he will appropriately share the insight with the Storting, so that the Storting will be wiser on these issues. Then we can more easily discuss what's what. Then I'd like to say finally, I've also met Eve and read Eve's story. There's no doubt that there's one of the starting points for my statements here about code 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1939	There's not so much I'm going to add after this debate. There has been a good debate and a very necessary debate. What delights me is that everyone who has taken part in the debate sees the issues we face in such a difficult landscape as this. We need to have two objectives for this type of instrument. The first is that the instruments need to be as effective as possible. No matter where they are administered, no matter how many are in and consider questions about code 6 or more stringent measures, the more important it is that the measures are made effective and that they actually work. That's the one thing in this. The second thing, which I think the debate has done well, and which I am going to take with me further in the government's work on this, is that these strict measures never have to be a resting place for us not to take action, whether it is of a preventive nature against the perpetrator, in organized crime or in violence in close relations. At the end of the day, we never know that we can't build this society on people having fictional identities or hidden addresses. This shall be possible, but shall be exceptional. For this reason, the main measures are, for example: in the context of violence in close relations, to do it as a broad majority in the Storting has unitedly concluded: we need to be able to prevent by meeting the perpetrator, so that one gets an end to the evil spiral. That's why I have to say that the input that has come, I'm going to include myself in the further development work that is now being done for these mechanisms. I think it has been a neat debate on this. As I said earlier today at the morning meeting, we are going to come back to Stortinget as quickly as we can to report on how the work is going, so that politicians have the opportunity to have a hand on the wheel on such important issues. This is very much about how people's lives and freedom are actually species.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1946	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1952	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1, 2 and 4 on today's meeting map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1959	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 6, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 7-9 from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 10 and 11, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 12, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e1993	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2017	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–9, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2046	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the necessary measures to be taken by the Government to establish, as soon as possible, an offer of language mapping at four-yearly checks at all its health centres and the provision of follow-up and measures to detect diverging language developments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2061	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2130	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2137	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 to 5 and proposal No. 8, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 6, 7 and 9-14, from Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement The President noted that proposal No. 8, which is a joint proposal by the Progress Party and the Right, in the event of a mistake is listed in the vote under the proposals of the Progress Party. First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2207	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to consider and, if necessary, to submit proposals for atoning measures for mental psyche that commit crime, the main responsibility of which lies with the criminal authorities for external security, permissive mechanisms, etc. and psychiatry the primary responsibility for treatment and care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2223	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2278	In Case No: 5, 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-28.ana.ud1235e2327	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
