ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e22	The President shall report that the election of members and alternates to the Electoral Committee, which was held at the Constituent Meeting of the European Parliament on Thursday 8 October 2009, resulted in the election of all proposed members and alternates by 167 votes. The President will subsequently convene the Electoral Committee for its first meeting. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e27	I have the honour, together with the representative Abid Q. Raja, to present a proposal for a stepping up of Norwegian climate policy before the climate summit in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e32	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e35	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on a package of measures to reduce and combat child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. I would just like to say briefly about the interlocutors, which may appear as newly-placed – at least for former representatives: it is true that all the three interlocutors are equal, but it is assumed that lines and replies to replies are made from the two interlocutors down on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e55	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: the debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. After that article, a row of up to six lines is allowed. Then each of the opposition lots receives an entry of up to 10 minutes, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each with a subsequent row of up to four lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are distributed among the groups as follows: Party of Workers 18 posts, Party of Progress 12 posts, Right 9 posts, Party of Socialists 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Party of Christian People 3 posts and 1 posts. If the government parties want to merge two five-minute posts to provide parliamentary leaders with a main contribution of 10 minutes, it will be available. After one of the 5 minute inserts from each group, a line round is allowed. In such row blanks, up to six lines are opened after articles from the opposition lots and up to four lines after inserts from the government batches. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e72	At the year's roll-out, nearly 2.7 million was spent. votes. It corresponds to an election attendance of 76.4 pst. The attendance at the year’s elections is at the level of previous major elections in Norway and is relatively good at international level. I would therefore like to start this big session by thanking all the voters regardless of the party colour because they have contributed to the Norwegian People's Council by using the voting rights. Thanks also to the opposition parties for having conducted a substantive and worthy election campaign that produced the political differences. Many governments are elected, not so many are re-elected. The majority government regained confidence in this decision. We're going to manage it with respect and in gratitude, and we're going to work on the basis of the political platform that the three government parties presented at Soria Moria last week. We agreed on a policy to keep low unemployment and order in the economy, improve and strengthen welfare systems and secure our common environment. We build our policies on the values of community and justice. Unemployment undermines these basic values. There will be less community and more injustice when more people become unemployed. Therefore, the main objective of the government’s economic policy is to work for all. The international financial crisis is not over. Unemployment in our neighbouring countries continues to increase. There is a great danger that the unemployment rate in Europe will fall to a permanent higher level. It creates social injustice, and it weakens the economic power of the countries. Government budget deficits are growing sharply, and many governments have to borrow a lot of money. This undermines the sustainability of economic policies and increases the pressure for increased taxes or substantial cuts in public expenditure in many countries. It reminds us once again how important it is to hold back in good times to build up profits and reserves that can be invested in worse times. When the financial crisis came to an end, the Government set out the goal of Norway coming out of the international financial crisis with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. The unemployment rate in our neighbouring countries is now approaching 10pst. In Norway, unemployment is 3 p.m., but we must not believe for a moment that the struggle for work for all is won once and for all. That fight has to be won over and over again. In Norway, too, we must be prepared for the closure of enterprises and the loss of jobs, especially in industry and other competitive industries. Our task is to ensure that as little as possible loses the job, and that those who become unemployed get a new job as soon as possible. There are still too many people who do not have ordinary work. We want to build bridges back to work through, among other things. labour market measures and increased use of wage subsidies as an alternative to social security for vulnerable groups. The new qualification programme shall be used to help long-term beneficiaries of social assistance to live on their own income. We want to make it easier to combine work and retirement. Next year, we will remove the curtailment of the pension against labour income for the 69-year-olds. So all the abbreviation will be removed for those who are over 67 years old, and that's in line with what we've said before. From 1 January 2011, the new pension reform will begin to work. It will further stimulate work to remove shortening down to 62 years for very many groups. The government will lay the foundations for profitable enterprises and increased value creation by keeping the economy in order, increasing investment in research and transport and focusing more on innovation and innovation. Good enterprises and a strong business life are essential for success both in the fight against unemployment and in building up the welfare state. A profitable business life and low unemployment are also essential for us to be able to finance the large costs of an older population. The government will continue its efforts to renew and improve public welfare systems. We want to strengthen the income of municipalities so that school and care services can be improved. Four years ago, we went to the elections to introduce full kindergarten coverage. It's been demanding, but from the autumn, anyone who needs a nursery place will get it if they're 1 year old before 1 September. In September 2009, all county officials reported that the municipalities have offered room for all children with the right to kindergarten. This has been a struggle for many years. Now we are finally on target – we have achieved the goal of full child care coverage. Now we're setting a new big goal – full health care coverage, by giving it to anyone who needs a nursing home or a nursing home. The government is following up the earlier agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left to strengthen the rights of the elderly through law and regulation. But the offer doesn't get better by laws and paragraphs alone. That is why we are going to follow up with appropriations for several places and more employees. Our target is 12,000 more health homes or nursing homes by 2015. The government's main means of getting to a good school is to get more and more highly qualified teachers. The government will improve teacher training and will start work on amending the training law in order to achieve a maximum limit on the number of pupils per student. teachers at each school. The school leisure time scheme shall be a voluntary offer but shall be open to all. During this period, therefore, the Government aims to introduce a free hour into the school leisure scheme each day. This is how we can facilitate homework, physical activity and possible cooperation with the cultural schools. It is important to promote knowledge and it is important to promote social cohesion in school. Norway is a multicultural society. It's positive and makes us a richer and more diverse community. The government is proposing to increase efforts for integration, and we will make Norway a more inclusive society. We will respect our international obligations and conduct a consistent, legal and fair asylum policy. Those who need protection will be allowed to stay. Those who do not need protection and do not have the right to stay cannot expect to stay. The government will therefore work to reduce the number of people without the need for protection seeking residence in Norway. Those who do not fulfil the conditions of stay shall be sent promptly. A consistent and fair asylum policy is important in order to provide protection to all those who actually need protection. Climate change is even more serious than we thought before. The researchers are now telling us that changes are taking place faster than previously assumed, and therefore more urgent than ever to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Norway shall be a leading country in climate action. We're going to continue to work to reduce emissions in this country, and we're going to continue to be a driver internationally. The only way to really solve the climate problem is through broad international cooperation, anchored in a climate agreement based on the principle of a common but different responsibility. Industrialised countries have the primary responsibility for the climate problem. It's up to us that emissions are highest, and we're the ones that have done most of the emissions historically. Nevertheless, the poorest countries are the hardest hit by climate change. Although they have the least responsibility for them, they are the ones who will be hit the most. So even though they have the worst possibilities to do something about it, they're the ones that are hit hardest. That is why, in the rich world, we have a special responsibility – both to cut emissions from ourselves and to contribute to cuts in poor countries and emerging economies. We know that it is in countries like China, India and Brazil that emissions will grow most in the years to come. Let me illustrate it with some numbers: The total global greenhouse gas emissions are now 50 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In order to prevent the temperature of the earth from rising more than two degrees, we probably need to cut emissions from 50 to 20 billion tonnes per year by 2050. So we're going to have to halve the emissions. In the same period, the earth's population will increase by more than 2 billion people. It'll be demanding. Without a binding and comprehensive climate agreement, we have to expect emissions to rise sharply – not to fall sharply. Almost all the growth that will take place without an agreement will happen in developing countries. That's why it's so crucial that we get tools to cut emissions in poor countries and emerging economies. In the climate negotiations, Norway has put forward proposals on how the rich part of the world can pay for cuts in the poor world. Mexico has also submitted a proposal, and we are now working on coordinating the Norwegian and Mexican proposals, so that the Copenhagen climate conference can actually adopt what is key to getting an agreement in place – mechanisms for the rich world to finance emissions cuts in the poor world. Without such mechanisms, there will be no agreement in Copenhagen. Norway contributes to reducing emissions in developing countries in a number of ways: through our efforts to combat deforestation and through the over-fulfilment of the Kyoto Agreement. We're going to keep going. They're part of the new government platform. In addition, we need to implement significant measures at home. The planters are running at Mongstad. There, we're going to develop world-leading carbon capture and storage technologies. Railway investments have more than doubled in recent years and will increase further. In industry, emissions are falling, among others: Because we're using new technology, and we're getting more and more good at using energy efficiently. We will continue this work by increasing the appropriations for Enova and investing in research and development that will provide new profitable and sustainable jobs. The main measure to reduce emissions is the allowance system. Several emission sources shall be included here and the number of allowances shall be reduced. Climate allowances mean that we put a ceiling on total emissions and that there will be a price of carbon. It makes it unprofitable to contaminate and economically clean. In this way, the driving forces of the economy change, we get a more sustainable economy. This is why climate allowances are the most important instrument in the EU and in the climate law currently under consideration by the US Senate. Today there are 56 days left for the final negotiations on a new international climate agreement in Copenhagen. We're going to use this time to do everything we can to contribute to a strong and committed agreement. If it can contribute to a binding agreement, the Government is set to strengthen Norway’s emissions target from 30 to 40 p.m. by 2020. We are also firmly committed to our goal of reducing emissions corresponding to 100 pst. by 2030. That is, we're going to be carbon neutral. It's been 40 years since a majority government won an election and took on a new majority period. This has led to a debate on the benefits and disadvantages of majority rule. Such a debate on our governance is important, and I welcome it. The starting point for this debate must be that it is not undemocratic for the majority to decide. That is what is at the heart of democracy, but the rights of the minority must of course be safeguarded. Multiplicity rule means that the majority's will becomes more and more the policy. Minority governments may easily lead to unclear responsibilities. It's not good for the People's Government. The fundamental democratic right of voters to vote off governments requires that voters know who they can replace and who they can replace. The plural government has its base in and expires from the plurality. This is fundamental to parliamentaryism. Many of the issues presented by the government originate from the Stortinget. And especially the representatives of the government parties have great influence in the preparation of matters before they are presented by the government. But also the opposition has influence when it's majority government. Several elements of the government’s Winter Action Packages were good ideas that the opposition contributed to. In several major cases during the previous period, the opposition was given the opportunity to influence through wide-ranging conciliation. The government could use its majority, but we thought it was of greater value for the Norwegian society to build long-term consensus and compromises with the opposition, with the minority. We also saw examples in the previous period that the Government amended proposals after debate with the opposition and debate in the media. It's all part of democratic processes. So when His Majesty the King also in the thrones under the majority governments «welcomes the Storting to responsible work», I am sure he is serious about those words. We are at the entrance of a new and important magnification period. It will require hard work, willingness to change and ‘responsible work’ by both government and magnificence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e185	Since we are now engaged in the debate on everything we don't know about what the government is going to do, I want to challenge the Prime Minister, too much of what we heard in his post now, is well-known rhetoric, well-known slogans, which both this hall and the people out there have heard before. I could imagine asking the Prime Minister to reflect a little on what real vision he has to rule the country over the next four years. What visions does he have, for example? as regards the development of the welfare society? Should the welfare state continue to grow and escalate, or is it more important that we provide good and efficient services and perhaps rather focus more on the diversity of who produces them? I could at least imagine hearing something more about the slightly further and deeper visions that the Prime Minister had to have for his work over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e192	As it says in the Soria Moria Declaration, and as I also stressed in my post, our goals, our visions for society, are to create a society in which we are able to improve, renew and strengthen the Norwegian welfare community. To succeed in that, we have to do at least two things. One thing we have to do is to ensure low unemployment, that a lot of people are working. It is both about reducing open unemployment and about building bridges into the labour market for all those excluded, who are not part of the workforce. There we have concrete proposals in the Soria Moria declaration. We have set up the vision that we should become a more inclusive society, where fewer are excluded from the labour market. It gives us a double gain: it gives more justice in itself, but it also provides increased value creation and thus better basis for financing welfare in the future. The second thing we have to do is to strengthen and improve welfare systems. We have put forward several concrete proposals in the Soria Moria Declaration, both what we are formulating about care for the elderly, and what we are formulating around school, which is two important promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e201	I understand that it is not possible to get more than the same old slogans. That is why I would rather challenge the Prime Minister for something quite concrete. The world's eyes are largely focused on President Obama, not least perhaps now, reinforced by the Nobel Peace Prize. Obama's work on Afghanistan is now about stepping up its involvement. At the same time, there is a signal from the Norwegian Government to step down the exposure. I wonder how the Prime Minister views it. If it is that everyone now expects Obama to contribute through its actions to reducing and resolving a long-standing and demanding conflict in Afghanistan, why should Norway's contribution to this, given the very good state economy we have, be reducing our efforts in an area that needs our help?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e214	In the government's political platform, we state that we should continue the military engagement of Norway in Afghanistan. So it's not a signal to step down. It's a signal to continue a strong military commitment. With regard to the population, Norway is among the countries that contribute most militarily to NATO's operations in Afghanistan, and we therefore state that we must continue to do so. But in addition, we say that civil action is important, with political efforts, because everyone sees that there are no challenges in Afghanistan with military instruments alone, there must also be a political and a humanitarian process. Norway is also the leader, and we are also recognised, among others. in NATO, for our considerable civil efforts. And we don't see that there's any contradiction between having a military commitment and having a civil commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e221	Let me begin by congratulating the Prime Minister both with the election and with a new government platform. We worked hard to prevent this, but we didn't quite reach the goal! But I want to challenge the Prime Minister on some important aspects for the next four years. The Prime Minister has stated in today's Economy that we are facing more difficult times, there is less room in the Norwegian economy, in many ways the party is a little over. In 2000, the Prime Minister said: ‘If we stand firm on old solutions that do not work, then we weaken confidence in Community solutions, then we weaken welfare and increase inequalities. We all lose that." We are now entering a situation where the way we spend money in the public sector is becoming more and more crucial for better well-being. Does the Prime Minister have any thoughts about how to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e233	First of all, I would like to thank you for the congratulations. So I want to say that we know little, really, about how difficult times are going to be, because there's a lot of uncertainty. But what we know is that there is a huge growth in unemployment in our neighbouring countries, that industry is facing major challenges because markets are disappearing, and oil money is at a very high level, and there are some limitations in the years to come, which may be demanding to meet. One of the answers to this is just to contribute to the renewal of the public sector. One of the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration is to renew and improve welfare systems. One important project that is health reform, the interaction reform, which will be a major task for this expansion during this four-year period. Another thing is the implementation of the pension reform and what we are now warning: that we remove all the curtailment for old-age pensioners. So there are large and small examples of us continuing to improve and renew the public sector by getting more money back.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e240	If you look at the four preceding years, there's nothing that beats you more than that a minimum common multiple for this government is to grant more money. It's not to change, it's not to renew, it's to grant more money and reduce the variety of offers that people can choose from when they need help. Health cows have increased, schools have been on the ground resting, Nav queues have increased, crime trends have gone in the wrong direction. And then through the platform you've promised more of the same thing. There's no reason to rejoice over just this. Today, there was also a look-up showing that many small municipalities in the country have problems following the major school reforms, and children lag behind because of inequalities – because this government is not willing to renew and reform. The Prime Minister also said in 2000 that if we do not look at how the public sector works, private commercial solutions will push ahead. Today, more and more private health insurance is taking place. Does the Prime Minister see that he has failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e248	I would like to repeat everything I said in 2000. I think it's very well formulated, and I'd like to repeat it -- point one. Point 2 is that it's precisely because we're in favour of a strong public sector where we spend a lot of money at school, on health and well-being, that we're busy organizing the public sector in a good way. And the biggest single reform measured in dollars and cents and the number of people covered by the public sector is the pension reform. There is no other public sector reform that is bigger, measured in heads and ears and numbers of people. But there is not little we start with in terms of health, either – the interaction reform. And then there are many small decisions, such as: increased use of ICT, better organisation of procedures in public services, which is also an expression of the renewal of the public sector. So this government is for a strong public sector, so we are also to renew and improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e253	I agree with the Prime Minister that it was a real election campaign. One of the best debates we had was about poverty. Unfortunately, this was not mentioned in the Prime Minister's speeches today, nor in the census. But I want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to follow up the point that we debated, and the positive attitude he expressed in the debate on poverty to the Christian People's Party's proposal on a national response to poverty. It would well fall into the Prime Minister's invitation to all representatives and parties of the Storting on cooperation on the major issues, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is in line with what he has said, and in line with what he said in the election campaign, will respond positively to the Christian People's Party's invitation to cooperation on a national fight against poverty. We have not come closer to solving that problem in the four years that have passed; we need to get closer in the four years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e258	Firstly, I would like to say that in my contribution I pointed to some of the main instruments we have for combating social injustice in order to reduce poverty, not least what we do in terms of long-term recipients of social assistance and strengthening the qualification programme, but also what we do in terms of increasing the use of wage subsidies to get those who are struggling in the labour market into work. So there are measures to reduce social inequality in Norway and to help those who have economic difficulties. Secondly, each budget will promote concrete measures to reduce social inequality and combat poverty in Norway. There will be action tomorrow in the state budget. There will also be actions in the various budgets in the future, and there is, of course, also the occasion for the Storting to discuss and, where appropriate, to gather on proposals contained in the State budget. Thirdly, on the Soria Moria platform, we have announced that we will promote a separate case relating to the follow-up of the large sample, the Distribution Committee, which has presented many proposals – or made many assessments. There will then be another opportunity for the Storting to discuss the Government's policy and see if it is possible to gather on common positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e267	I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his election. Last Friday, at the same time as the census, we were given the decision that Obama would receive the peace prize. It's actually a peace prize most for hope, opportunities and visions for the great things to come. Everything that is difficult is not easy either. If you're going to do big things, you're going to have to dry up some unpopular decisions. At the same time, we heard a census based on a government statement that does not exactly address the major challenges facing society. One of the major challenges is the climate. Here the government believes that you should buy yourself free, you should do most of the rest of the world. But we see that other countries are willing to make great compromises on great promises, and also victims in their own country. Is the Prime Minister able to see that vision, able to see that some unpopular decisions must also be made in his own country in order to be a prime minister who remains in history in order to have some important and great visions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e276	It's not a goal in itself that the decision is unpopular. The aim is that it contributes to reduced emissions. Then you might sometimes have to do unpopular things. The general isn't that it should bother us as much as possible. The overall thing is that it gives the greatest possible reduction. The Soria Moria statement clearly states that we should both implement significant measures to reduce emissions at home – I referred to Mongstad, I referred to railway operations, I pointed out what we are doing now in relation to industry – but also significant measures out there. I think it is very wrong to refer to efforts outside as something inferior. The key to getting large enough reductions is that we succeed in bringing emissions down to countries like India, Brazil, South Africa, China. Without it, we are inconceivable – because it is where virtually all the growth in emissions comes in the next few years, but also because those countries are not going to sign any agreement at all, they are not agreeing to any reduction agreement, unless the rich world spends money on the table to finance emissions reductions in the poor world. It's not about buying free, it's about putting on the table money the rich world really owes the poor world because we've been polluting so much for so many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e285	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e288	Yes, this is the debate on everything we don't know about the government's policy for the next four years. There's been a lot of time reading both Soria Moria II and the census for this year. It's hard to see the concrete promises of the red-green government for this four-year period. This may be because some bad experiences were made in the last period by promising too much that one could not carry out as one was tested and challenged in the election campaign, but it may also be due to a much stronger disagreement between the three government parties than what comes to the surface. If one had been as touchingly united as one tries to express, the platform would have been considerably stronger, clearer, more full of visions and with clearer objectives of where to use a majority government over the next four years. At the moment, it's unclear. The first big audition for the Government will be tomorrow when the Minister of Finance will present the state budget for 2010. Then we'll see the first considerations for where this government will over the next four years. But so far, many of the major problems have been pushed ahead by not clarifying them in the government platform. But what is very clear in the government platform is, of course, that the Workers' Party is the dominant party in the design of the policy. That's how the Workers' Party operates traditionally; it's unclear, and then we might find out at some point what they actually mean. I have registered that SV has been very busy explaining why they have given in to asylum policy, and the answer to SV has almost been that the voters have asked for it, and therefore SV must accept it. But there are also other questions that SV has asked for, e.g. in climate and environmental and energy policy. This, of course, is because the voters have not given any marshalls either to the SV or to the Left to have a dominant impact on the policy. What is obvious, however, is that in the case of oil drilling in Lofoten and the Westphalia, there is a question to be resolved through the management plan to be addressed in 2010. It has been clear throughout the election campaign. Another thing that's also been clear all along is that regardless of whether you're eager to open up for drilling or not, it won't happen in the next four-year period. When SV tries to present it as a victory, it is – with respect to reporting – a bit hollow. Even if we were to take positive decisions through the 2010 management plan, there will be no activity in this area until many, many years. But what is important is that the management plan gives clear signals of activity in this area. In any case, I am currently choosing to trust that the Workers' Party has control of this, and that we will also see an SV in this area that does not have influence in important areas of policy. In the Common Era, the Government of Health writes that they will not privatise or commercialise basic welfare services. But at the same time, it is expressed that you want to «private enterprises and contract specialists as useful partners»; Like it's so nice. It's going to be interesting to figure out what that really means. If healthcare cannot be provided on a commercial basis, it may be difficult for private contract specialists to participate in this cooperation to which the Government invites. And where did dental health go? Where did it go? I remember many promises from the government parties through the election campaign that offered that now dental health should be reinforced, now that part of health care should also be made more reasonable. So it's abandoned in Soria Moria II, and I think that's sad. Then to the care of the elderly. The goal of full hospital coverage in 2015 is good. That's not good enough, in our opinion, but that's good. But the big question is how the government intends to implement it. It is an important question that both the municipalities and the Stortinget should know more about. Therefore, a proposal from the Progress Party is now being re-issued asking the Government to present its own health home message in the summer that provides a concrete progress plan for the goals that the Government should have to achieve in order to achieve the goal of full health home coverage. So it shouldn't be a well-kept secret. Once upon a time, it is the municipalities that are going to implement the Government's promises. Then the municipalities should also know in more detail how the government has ambitions to achieve this, mainly because it is important that it does so, for the sake of the country's sick people who have been a balancing position in our society for too long. I noticed a lot of what the Prime Minister said in his speech on energy, environment and climate policy. We pass on a proposal to ask the Government to brief the Stortinget on the Norwegian positions in connection with the Copenhagen climate negotiations. This is an important question for large parts of Norwegian business, and it is not insignificant what positions the government takes in terms of what kind of future large parts of our business will have in this area. I hope that the Government will meet us and give us an orientation, so that we can all be informed about what Norway intends to do in Copenhagen. At the same time, we want the Government to present its own energy message. It is important to clarify more clearly what kind of energy development Norway will have in the next few years. In the years we have behind us, there was very little happening in this area despite a majority government, and despite a majority government that intended to have ambitions especially in the renewable sector – very little development and very little growth. I believe it would be natural for the Storting to be more orientated through a separate communication on how this work will be undertaken by the Government in the coming years. Then we have been presented with the claim that the Government is now going to tighten up its asylum policy. Well, it's a statement that remains to be seen what results we get from. There is a lot, I think, that indicates that there is no real tightening in this. Probably that's why SV gave up so easily as well, knowing that there's really no tightening of the substance. This is one of the most demanding areas in Norway in the years to come — the influx of asylum has grown sharply, it has come out of control, and it creates major challenges in our society that we need to solve. Then it does not help with beautiful promises that you will reduce the flow. The only way to reduce inflows is through entirely concrete measures and instruments that send a signal to the world that it will not be as pink as it is today to come to Norway. That is why the Progress Party also allows itself to make two proposals on asylum and immigration policy. One proposal is that we hope the Government will now wind up support for Koran Schools in Pakistan. It is self-contradictory when we are at the same time engaged in Afghanistan to reduce the rise of terrorism in the world. Then we cannot at the same time support the arenas of terrorism, as many of these schools have evolved to be. Then we promote proposals to ask the Government to present a social account related to productivity growth and the participation of immigrants in the labour market, according to the model of the Danish National Bank. They have implemented this, which has provided exciting and interesting estimates of the challenges facing them in Norway as well. We think it would make sense for the Government to present such a social account to the Storing in the near future. I participated in many debates on equal pay in the election campaign. The Socialist Left Party engaged and promised a lot, but has also had to give way to the Los Lo and the Workers' Party in this area. The existing wording is non-binding. It's clearly compatible with what LO wanted when they're out cheering that the commitments are as small as they are. In reality, this means that in this four-year period, too, we will not have the pay gap for low-wage-dominated women's powers that we need, and that we need if we are to be able to increase recruitment to many of these important professions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e328	The representative Jensen spent a lot of his time focusing on the relationship between the government parties. But the big choice of the harvest has given us a basic clarification, and that's that we're still going to have a majority rule consisting of the three red-green parties. On the civil side, however, we have still not been given any clarification, nor through the election campaign. The representative Jensen said in 2005 that she would build alliances on the civil side. She couldn't. My question is therefore: Will the representative Jensen take on the role of building builder on the right again?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e335	Let me first address the suggestions that I referred to from the pulpit. Now we have four years to the next big shot. These are years that the Progress Party wants to use well. We don't want us to continue with a red-green government after 2013. If it had been up to us, it would have been a government change this time. Although I also have to add myself to the number of congratulations to the Prime Minister, I have to say that I should sincerely wish that he could do something other than run the country in these years. But the ambition of a new government is so definitely present. The Progress Party intends to build it on a fundamental premise, namely respect for the peculiarities of the parties. It is not the case that cooperation is getting closer by trying to eliminate the peculiarities of the various parties involved in that cooperation. That's probably something we can see now in the new government statement, that SV and the Center Party are gone. They're part of the government, but it's very difficult to see their political solutions in the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e342	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e346	If there's one thing that the three red-green parties have been able to do in the period we've put behind us, which we're also going to do in the next period, then we're going to agree on the points where we initially disagree. My follow-up question to the representative Jensen will therefore be: What will the Progress Party and the representative do differently this time since they failed in the previous round?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e353	The representative Helga Pedersen will find out during the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e358	The President appreciates the efficient use of time. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e361	So effective I don't intend to be. I want to ask Siv Jensen a question about the climate problems. That is, after all, the most important question we face, and I found it disappointing to hear the introduction of the representative, Siv Jensen. First, there was a lot of lucidity about SV compromises, and then she had concerns about what would happen in view of a possible offensive attitude in Copenhagen. Has not Siv Jensen received some of the important things since the platform was presented, namely that Norwegian climate negotiators were applauded in Bangkok when they presented the new 40 p.m. target, which is a hand bill that can help us get an offensive agreement in Copenhagen? Instead, she takes the tone that this can be negative for Norwegian industry. Why not now see the possibilities? Why not give commendation to a Norwegian government that is now going out offensively to just trying to do something about what is the great threat to our well-being and to the future of the planet's population?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e370	It is well possible that Norwegian climate negotiators will be applauded in Bangkok. But maybe they should also get applause in the Norwegian Grand Prix? It's now like we have a majority government. But it should be quite obvious, in my opinion, that the government is briefing the Storting on the Norwegian positions, that it will allow the Stortinget to take a discussion on this before concluding the negotiations in Copenhagen. It is not an expression of the fact that the Progress Party does not care about this, but rather a statement that we want to know what Norway places on in the negotiations. To ignore completely the importance of this for Norwegian business in the future is not going to happen to the Progress Party. We are fundamentally concerned that we should have a business that will grow and develop in the future too, and then there is no reason for Norway to come into a situation of curious regulations, which end up sending important parts of our business out of the country, which are located elsewhere, with lower ambitions than Norway had to have. That's not the way forward. At least that's not the way to achieve the Prime Minister's goal of working for everyone, to say the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e377	I want to follow up on business policy. Norway has a joint responsibility for resolving the international climate and food crisis, and a very important part of this is the work on our industrial policy: how we produce, what we produce, and what is the raw material in production. For example, plastics produced from wood carbon molecules are now used in future cars. For the Centre Party, it is important to facilitate the relocation of a significant part of the Community’s financial assets to the development of industry in mainland Norway. In concrete terms, making it profitable for private business to invest in new technologies that create long value chains based on renewable natural resources, such as our forest resources. Governments will propose state investment aid to environmental technologies, i.e. redeployment of state financial assets to stimulate enterprise-based private business. Does the Progress Party support such a policy on nutrition, which can enable bold business leaders to further develop our business life – give priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e386	I think it would be very interesting if the government now began to relocate financial assets to Norway, began investing in capital, investing in research and development, investing in a strong and competitive business. The Progress Party has been calling for this for many years. I hope, of course, that the Central Party will get a pass on that way of thinking in the Government, but it remains to be seen, to say it carefully. It remains to be seen, but I believe that in everything we do, we should be concerned about the basis of our own business. There is no reason for them to get worse, whether tax- and tax-related or otherwise. That is why I want to challenge the Centre Party to stand still a little harder in order for us to have a competitive tax and tax level in Norway. Then you must not be so afraid to reduce taxes and charges that the red-green government bears the mark. On the contrary, the tax burden should be reduced so that our companies are actually competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e393	Throughout the election campaign, we heard the party leader repeat that she wants to finance more to ourselves, raise more to ourselves, cut to the world's poorest – or cut to corrupt dictators, as the rhetoric went on. This rhetoric was reflected in the fact that one knows that assistance works, that he lifts millions of people out of poverty. Assistance, indebtedness, help to the poor so that they can sell their goods, is the key to development. I'll be honest with the representative, Siv Jensen. The poverty struggle was and perhaps is the most important reason why I engaged myself politically, and that I have just chosen the Christian People's Party. It's not about corrupt dictators, but it's about individuals, billions of individuals, such as Elton, who I was delighted to meet in the slum in Nairobi when I was 18. We stood there as old, but with so radically different possibilities, and we had such a different future. So my question to Siv Jensen is, when will the Progress Party take the consequence that most people actually live in poor countries, and that they need help from us?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e402	That consequence has been taken by the Progress Party a long time ago. That is why we have called for a change in aid policy so that more people can get out of poverty. I think the Christian People's Party and many other parties carry a big one on their shoulders when they keep asking for more of what doesn't work. So it is not that poverty in the world is falling sharply as a result of continuing the traditional aid build-up. It's kind of going the opposite way up. It should be a warning for several parties to change, be more concerned with trade and build down customs barriers. In my head, this is very simple. If a Norwegian family-father is concerned about being able to feed his own family, with the pride it implies, of course, an African family-father will also be concerned about the exact same thing. We must then facilitate welfare development through work in these countries as well. Then it is not necessarily that we should continue in the traditional aid track, which unfortunately has played down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e407	I would like to ask the representative Jensen about her wish to have a climate debate in Stortinget before the Copenhagen meeting. I believe that there are still some things that are unclear after the election campaign. That's why I have some questions that might be a nice start to the kind of debate that we might have in Stortinget. I would like a clear answer from Siv Jensen at point one: Is there man-made climate change? And on point two, is there really a need for an agreement in Copenhagen based on the position of the Progress Party? What does the representative Jensen think the agreement should contain?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e414	One of the main critics of the Progress Party against the Kyoto agreement was the absence of many very important, large economies in the world. If such an agreement is to be effective, a number of countries should participate in the commitments. Then you also want to achieve the goals you set faster. In the last growing period, the Progress Party promoted a number of very concrete proposals in this room that would reduce emissions individually and collectively much more than the government itself was able to do. It's because you're not really interested in going into the simple things, but you talk in big words and phrases – from moon landing to belly pads is at least my assessment of it. Maybe you should make it a little bit simpler, and then you can, for example, start with the car park and the roads. Only there will we be able to dramatically reduce emissions if we get a much more efficient transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e422	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e425	I will first be allowed to stress that I think that the Prime Minister's posts contained many positive notes of cooperation with the Storting in the next four years. I think that is necessary, because I think there can be many good initiatives from parties other than the government parties – I am quite convinced that most of them can come from there. But I think it's important for the long-termity of Norwegian politics that we make sure that we disagree where we disagree, but do not make more games than is necessary. For a small country to develop and facing many challenges, it is necessary that politicians take responsibility. Many ask me questions in these days about what the opposition is going to spend time with. Should they only plan the 2013 elections? Then I – and I want to do this too – stress that we are all chosen to contribute every day to making this country a better country to live in for everyone. Our duty is to do a job in the four years we've been chosen for, not just plan for the next time we might be able to move on and change the government. That's why the Right is going to cooperate, we're going to challenge, we're going to present alternatives, we're going to work in depth with the political answers, and we're going to both stretch out our hands – and, of course, criticise – in the period that's coming. We believe that it is important that the Government also meets factual, constructive criticism and challenges of important developments. The obligation to have a majority. It almost obligates more than being a minority government, because you're in power and can decide much more than you've done before. This means that it has an obligation to address the major challenges, not just to decide where the least common multiple between three lots is. It also obliges us to address the major challenges ahead of us as a nation and as a participant in the world. I am absolutely sure that Norway will be a good country to live in, even after these four years. I just underline it as the beginning of four years. We're going to be a good country to live in, but every year some of the big challenges get closer, for example. how we're going from having a dominant petroleum economy to having other economies and bigger legs to stand on. Every year, the questions are moving closer when we can transform our economy, but also when it comes to getting more out of money in the public sector. From the right, we're going to work on these major challenges in the coming years. We are concerned that Norway must build on a much wider complex economy in the years to come, but not at the same time extract the good that has been the driving force of the financial crisis, namely the oil part of the Norwegian economy. That is why, in my opinion, it is very important that we get the oil message that never came to the Storting in the last four-year period as soon as possible, so that we can discuss the development and strategies for the oil and petroleum industries in the future. It is important that we get a message and a debate in the Biggest on the energy challenges, because there are an incredible number of challenges that are not just about renewable energy. Some of the choices we have to make as a nation that the government didn't put on the table in the last period, obviously because you didn't agree on what would be the solutions. These are large industrial enterprises in Norway, great opportunities in Europe, but also, of course, how we will develop renewable energy in the years to come. Not least, it is important that we focus on how we can trigger the great diversity of creativity, innovation and change in our society. It's not like future Norway is just going to be built on renewable energy, which we can sometimes believe when we hear the discussions about what future Norway is going to be. No, it's the great diversity of other research efforts that's going to determine what we're going to live on in knowledge-based business. If we look a little further up in Oslo, we'll find some of the most future-oriented cancer research community we have, Cancer Cluster – a huge potential for business, but also for solving huge tasks. This is an important example of how the width of investing in the future is about investing in knowledge and research and making sure to do it not only in some areas that politicians are picking out because we think it's going to solve things that we're most concerned about, but make sure that the breadth of competence reaches, that we've invested so widely. None of us know where the big new industries come from, because it's about where we're going to be the smartest and most capable and able to bear the cost level Norway has. There is something else that is going to be important – because the party is a little over now. It is true, as the Prime Minister said, that this period starts with a different economic base than that of the previous period. At the time, the Prime Minister came to the table. Another government had cleaned up and turned the economy in advance. So we had the opportunity to solve a lot. I believe that some things went wrong. Among other things, we have spent a lot of money in the public sector, but we have not received similar results. We can do that, for example. see in the health sector. There we are number two in the world, but we can't stop an increasing health queue. It's all about crazy answers. It is an allergy to using private solutions. Yes, the Minister of Health, who has now reported that he is going off, has now admitted that he could have gotten rid of the health cows faster, got more people out of a painful choking, if you hadn't had the allergy that the government has shown in terms of private solutions. But it's bigger than that, because I don't think it's possible to renew the public sector without realizing that it's the people who are working on matters, who are renewing the public sector, and some of these need spaces outside the public sector to be able to solve things and create new measures. That's why we see so many fantastic new offers coming out of the public sector, because that's where they make room to do it. Here we have a lot to learn. Therefore, it is important not to close the diversity of solutions if we are to renew the public sector. That's why it's important to also think about how to make sure that we build the roads faster. The Government should reverse its position related to OPS. This will lead to fewer people dying in traffic in the years to come because we will simply build the roads in a faster way. It is important to take a vow for Norwegian school not only for business and research but to ensure that every child learns to read and write. When we focus on what it does, and when our conviction is that better teachers are a better answer than just more teachers, better continuing education is important. I am disappointed that this did not come out clearly on the government platform, because then we are delayed and more children are going out of Norwegian school without being able to read and write well enough to take more education than they would have done if one had chosen to prioritize the money differently from what the government has pointed out. This debate is, of course, a time to raise your eyes. We also need to look beyond the Norwegian situation and our country. In the coming years, we will see that the world is even more tied together than ever before, globalisation is doing it, the financial crisis has proved it, and the climate challenges are going to get bigger. I believe that the Presidency of the European Union is right when they say that the objectives of the Copenhagen meeting are successful or not, in essence, two things: one is that you can keep the 2 degree goal – that you don't raise the world temperature more than that. The second is that as many countries as possible are party to the agreement. But none of us can fail to take us into account that this too is going to be demanding for the country of Norway. Therefore, it is important – and I assume it is a matter of course – that the Government does what it normally does, informs us thoroughly in advance and gets our advice before the Copenhagen meeting, and that after the Copenhagen meeting it comes back with clear and clear national plans for how to reach our part of an agreement and not least how to ensure that such an agreement does not just mean that we shut down parts of Norwegian business, but that we find ways to renew and change things so that we can still have an active and competitive business life. Our main concern – from the Right – over the next four years is to challenge the Government in terms of innovation and innovation to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are given greater levers, so that we can produce values and transform the Norwegian society for the future, but not least focus on what is needed to improve the public sector. Norway does not spend little money on its public sector. We spend a lot of money on our public sector. I think that's fine. If I meet with the voters every single day can say that every penny that I've taken of your private well-being, your ability to do things in your family, is the money I've spent to make other parts of the Norwegian community go well and evolve. But with the statistics we have for how our public sector develops you, we can't say that today. That's why we need to find more and better ways to spend money in the public sector over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e458	The representative Solberg spent a lot of his time talking about cooperation. Of course, from the side of the government parties, we have to be open to input from the opposition parties where it is possible to collect. My question is about civil cooperation. Does the Right Leader and Solberg representative have any new construction projects on the civil side?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e465	The right is going to cooperate with all the other parties on the civil side. We're going to work together on another course for innovation and simplification and to change the Norwegian society into a better society to live in. But my question back to the Labour Party, after this is the third line the parliamentary leader now has, is: is this the only thing you've been thinking about in Norwegian politics for four years? Do you intend to use the game method from the election campaign for four years to come, or do you intend to dare to see others in your eyes and talk about the consequences of your own policy, talk about how more people are in a health queue with pain, because you have a private allergy? Are you going to talk about why children don't learn to read and write at school, or are you going to hide in a debate about games about political alternatives and not talk about everyday life to people? I hope you will continue with this, because at least you will lose the election in 2013. We're going to spend time talking about what matters to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e472	The government platform and the debate today are about how our government and government parties will change Norway and create a society that everyone is going to join. In the last four years, the bourgeois parties have been talking about how they should come together, but we have not yet been given a clear explanation of how this is going to happen. That's why it's interesting to hear how the Right Leader and Solberg's representative think of this for the next four years. There are many who both track and expect the Progress Party and the Right to find closer together during this period. They agree on many fundamental issues, but at one central point they disagree, and that is economic policy. Could the representative, Mr Solberg, clarify whether they will continue to base the rule of action on their policies and whether they will require the same of the Progress Party in order to establish closer and more committed cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e479	The right is always going to have a sensible economic policy. We're always going to be responsible. We're always going to be concerned that people are going to be able to pay their bills, that they're going to have safe jobs. That's also why we're often opposed to parts of the government's policy. We believe that it creates uncertainty in some areas. But we're also going to work together on all of the things that we agree on. One of the things I want to work with other civil parties about is to make sure that the government really feels that the consequences of their lack of renewal of the public sector, for example. is that more people are in health queues. When, in 2000, the Prime Minister was able to point out that more commercial and private services were forced to emerge if the public sector could not be renewed, that is actually what is happening in the health sector today. In just two years with this government, there have been 130 pst. increase in private health insurance. People vote with their feet, because they don't believe in the government's health policy. I am absolutely sure that we can manage to cooperate on the civil side by referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e486	Privacy is important for SV. That is why, like a wide range of activists with very different political backgrounds, we have concluded and taken a clear stand against the EU Data Storage Directive. This is also reflected in the government platform together with the Center Party. Therefore, this matter is not necessarily decided by the red-green majority, but by the parties that have not yet decided – in the Stortinget. As a result, the right-wing party may be the party that decides on the use of the right of reservation against the EU Data Storage Directive. I'll register that, for example. The representative of Røe Isaksen of the Right has referred to the directive as a serious attack on privacy. It's positive. Therefore, I wonder whether the representative Solberg, without concluding now for the open hall, is still open to support the use of the right of reservation against the EU Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e491	We have stated that we are skeptical from the Right to the Data Storage Directive. The question of reservation rights, or reservation in relation to the EEA Agreement, is a question we have to address only when the Government has provided its evidence of the consequences of the Data Storage Directive. It has a consequence on the responses the EU can have to what is suspended under the EEA Agreement in areas where we currently have free movement and free trade, where the Data Storage Directive is anchored in EU policy. The second question is what it will mean for police cooperation if Norway, which is already under criticism for not being good enough in this area, should end up in a situation where we became a sort of haven for bases that we do not want, for example. for child pornography. This is the government's job – this is what they're going to do for us. Everyone knows that we're not going to override the EEA Agreement. But if SV is concerned with privacy, I hope they will be opposed to open tax lists in the future and also do something about the health register. There's been an S.I.V. failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e498	In the last four years, there has been a significant investment in transport in Norway. This effort shall continue. The right in the election campaign has supported such a commitment, and it has been said that one must exploit the space for action in the economy in the coming years to invest in transport. It is a position which is also supported by the Centre Party and which is reflected in the adopted national transport plan. But the Right Party relies most of its transport policy on hire purchase, so-called Public Private Cooperation. It is also repeated in the article today. I would like to take the opportunity to ask the representative, Mr Solberg, how one can say that a person is going to take advantage of the short-term economic space by using a financing mechanism that is primarily characterised by a shift of bills decades ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e507	An important reason — not the only one — to build roads faster is, of course, that we cut costs for Norwegian business. That means we're getting more competitive. This means that companies can pay more taxes. That means that we get more space in the economy in the future. We believe that the effect of building the roads is such that Norwegian business will go better. But then, of course, we also think that the traffic safety that becomes part of better roads is an incredibly valuable part in itself. That's why it's going to be profitable to get the roads built quickly. It will be profitable because it provides more income in the future in a more competitive business. That's also what the government argues with. But yet they won't take the step fully and do it in a faster way. But in addition to OPS, we've said that over the next ten years, we're going to spend NOK 15 billion more on road construction than the government is doing. We've said that we're going to spend 50 billion kroner on a maintenance fund for road and rail to take the maintenance run. So that's how we're going to spend more money, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e515	The number of children in Norway growing up in poor families is increasing. As many as every three children with a non-Western background live in households with income below the poverty line. Every third immigrant child in Norway lives below the poverty line. The left today presented a package of measures to reduce and combat child poverty. The leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, has called for a common political commitment to reduce child poverty. The head of the Christian People's Party, the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten, has done the same. I did not hear that Prime Minister Stoltenberg entirely took the challenge given by the representative Høybräten today, at least not so far. However, the question is whether the Right will participate in a political effort to reduce and combat poverty among children and children's families.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e522	We'd like to be. We would like to take part in that discussion. We have had measures in our alternative state budget that have gone directly to increase appropriations directed at children in poor families. But then I want to say that when such a large proportion of those who are children in poor families are immigrants, this is also about having a focus on integration policies, and not least about getting more of the women in some vulnerable families into the workplace. It is incredibly important that mothers also participate. Among other things, many single mothers in some ethnic groups in Norway are totally dependent on social assistance. So it's a challenge when it's under 25 pst. of the Somali women who are at work. There's one thing we have to work on, because it's clear that lack of connection to the labour market also means that it's hard to get out of a poverty situation. So we're going to do things that help the children who are poor, but not least in the long run, make sure they come out of a negative spiral and into normal work and can support themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e529	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e532	Politics is wild. It's about having visions for that society you're set to serve inspired by the best values society builds on. But one also has to be able to implement the good solutions. I congratulate the Prime Minister on the victory both in the elections and in the government negotiations. The Christian People's Party will meet the Government with critical and constructive opposition. We will challenge and attack, but we will also work together on concrete issues where opportunities are at the heart of it. The greatest danger of the majority government is its internal tensions and its considerable self-satisfaction. It doesn't have to listen and cooperate to get things adopted. But if it doesn't, it can stumble into a majority arrogance that nobody's served. After reading the basis of the government parties and listening to the languages of the throne, it may seem that you are very pleased to administer AS Norway. It's not a Christian People's Party. Although most people have it very well in Norway, many fall outside the welfare community. And even though a lot is good, it's urgent tasks that call for action and courage from the Government and the newly elected Stortinget. The fight against poverty is such a thing. Through the election campaign, it became clear that the government is further away from its goal of eradicating poverty now than four years ago. The poor were excused by the country's finance minister. Now it's time for them to get a real boost from big business and government. Unfortunately, there is little evidence of this in the constitutional and governmental bases and so far in the defence of the Prime Minister's response here today. In the Soria Moria II Declaration, the Government had the opportunity to provide targeted measures such as income-graded prices in kindergarten and SFO. You didn't choose to do that. The government also had the opportunity to decide that social assistance rates should be raised to an acceptable level wherever in the country of residence. It didn't come either. Increased use of non-profit institutions to reduce the queues for drug care is also a non-theme of the government statement. Nor are there any signs that the government will soften the harsh market thinking that has led vulnerable children to experience their home going bankrupt, and that they are once again getting their roots up when they need child protection help. Ideological blindness causes people to die in public drug treatment cows instead of getting help from ideal actors. The Christian People's Party has long struggled to quadruple the one-time support to balance the unfair difference between mothers who have earned rights in the world of work and those who do not. In the Soria Moria II declaration, the government reports that they will consider an increase in the one-off aid. It's a step in the right direction, but it's very unobligatory. Some measures against poverty have been included in the Government's platform, and that is good. We'll give you credit for that. But we cannot support the generally low level of ambition that has been put on in the fight against poverty. In the election campaign, it was focused on the fact that red-green rule has led to more poor, longer cows in rural care, longer queues in psychiatry and more children living in poverty. We want a national effort in the fight against poverty. We take seriously the invitation from the Government for cooperation in Stortinget on the major issues. The question is whether the Government takes the invitation from the Christian People's Party seriously to start with a national raising against poverty. Then it's no use saying that we get back to it in the annual budgets. We have to put it heavily on the agenda as a matter of our own. Another thing that requires a completely different political will, courage and action than what we see today, is the climate struggle. The Christian People's Party wants a Norway that takes the lead in shifting society in a more climate-friendly direction. That is why we want a major effort on renewable energy, better support schemes and more research. The first four years of red-green rule in this area have been four lost years. Now we have to get out of the dead water. The Christian People's Party will work for a new and action-oriented climate settlement this period. We believe that there is time for concrete measures to help people act environmentally friendly, for example. increase the wreckage, introduce an environmental car premium to those purchasing an environmentally friendly car, and not least strengthen the reward scheme for public transport. This is about facilitating everyday choices that are environmentally friendly. We know more than enough to protect the vulnerable areas outside of Lofoten and the Westphalia against oil drilling. The government has chosen to push the question ahead. In our view, that is not necessary. Increased capacity and quality of care for the elderly are a major and growing national task, which requires both policy-making and policy-making. If we don't intervene now, we're heading straight towards a capacity and quality crisis in the provision of care. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is following up the old age agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, and will introduce a dignity guarantee for the care of the elderly in order to guarantee older people the right to a dignified care. Although we are pleased with the impact on these issues, we are also concerned that the level of ambition is too low. We already know that the Government's goal of recruiting care workers and building nursing homes by 2015 is too low to meet the growing need. We need both a higher rate of development and a concrete recruitment plan to get more skilled people to care for the elderly. Then the equal pay pledge must be lifted from the talk stage to the action stage. I have mentioned some major societal challenges that have stood, and will continue to stand, at the top of the Christian People's Party agenda during this period: poverty, the environment, the growth conditions of the children and the growing needs of the elderly. In all these matters, as the Christian People's Party sees it, there is a striking imbalance between the magnitude of the challenges and the smallness of the policy being pursued. Nevertheless, nowhere is this gap between challenge and political action more and more devastating than in the fight against violence, abuse and child care failure. The Christian People's Party is known for speaking to families of children, and is often accused of unilaterally speaking the cause of the successful nuclear families. I want to tell Stortinget that we have decided that during this period we will speak even more strongly about the case of the vulnerable children. Only in the last week have we seen examples of how public utility has failed to see and help these children, and what tragic consequences it can have. Heartbreaking statistics tell us that every five children in this country feel insecure within the home's four walls, that hundreds of thousands of children live in homes where violence is part of their everyday lives, and that even more people know insecurity because their mother or father is rushing. These statistics are an accusation against all of us in the political environment. They ask questions about our words about prioritising children's best interests. It is not possible to understand the need for these numbers and at the same time conclude that we are doing enough, that we are working hard enough or that our efforts are sufficient. There can be no doubt that child protection needs to be provided with increased resources — and urgently. Better provision is needed for foster homes. And if these children are to be seen and protected, it also requires that those who work in schools and kindergartens can see the danger signals and know when and how to report them, and that they have the competence to recognise the problems. We must create a child-friendly society. Then we get a society that's good for everyone. We've left behind a choice and we've got a new composition and new power ratio here in Stortinget. We've read a lot of reviews. Let me read something the newspaper wrote in the manager's office: ‘The centre departed in the event of a silent death on the day following the decision to settle.’ This was printed a few days after the 2001 elections. That choice ended up knowing that we got a center-based minority government. This year too, there have been strong rumors about the death of the center. I can assure you that it will again prove to be considerably exaggerated, at least whether it stands for the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party is now the leading centre party on the Stortinget. We're going to use that role to point out a third way in politics. There is no wash intermediate position. The centre values constitute an independent political platform that will build society from below through the local communities such as the family, volunteering, community and local business, based on values such as respect for human dignity, solidarity with the vulnerable and responsible for the environment. I am convinced that Norwegian policy needs a clear centre. During this period, the Christian People's Party will cooperate with all parties on concrete, practical solutions. We will cooperate with the Government on the settlements the Government may wish to join with parties outside its own majority. We want to cooperate with the other opposition parties about being in opposition, for a majority government needs a real opposition. But first of all, we will be a centre party that gives policy a different perspective than what emerges if we simply assess policy from the poles to the right and to the left on the economic policy scale. From this point of view in the centre, the Christian People's Party will contribute constructively to finding good solutions that come into the everyday life of the people who have elected us here. I want the whole Stortinget for a good period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e596	I believe that there is reason to note with considerable satisfaction the strong ambitions of the Christian People's Party in important areas of society, as the Højbrått has now explained in terms of welfare building, poverty and climate. But at the same time he criticizes the Government quite thoroughly not to follow up these intentions in a good enough way. He used the term "latitude". Of course, I think that's going too far. He knows that we have common goals in these areas. He knows that the Workers' Party for its part and the Government have certainly both done a lot in their historical perspective and in their close past in these areas. The question that needs to be asked, and as it's important to have a discussion, I think, it's to know how the Højbråt and the Christian People's Party have thought when they in the election campaign went to the elections that they would cooperate with the right side in order to realize this. The government criticised for privatisation in this area, and that is precisely what distinguishes right parties, namely privatisation. [[President clubs]] And that's an area that I want him to talk about right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e603	The President reminds us that the time for replication is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e606	Let me first say that I will not deny the workers' party's solid efforts for the Norwegian society over many generations – if it worried the representative Kolberg. But what worries me is that it was in cooperation with the Right and Left that the Christian People's Party was pressured by the red-green government to raise ambitions when it came to climate policy. There had to be a climate settlement here in Stortinget to allow Erik Solheim to travel into the world and get credit for the efforts made in relation to, for example. rain forest. It is therefore a fact that the red-green government has gone into the forefront of running a market thinking in terms of child protection and private non-profit drug institutions, which make vulnerable people lose their offer. I believe that it is not necessarily the case that it is always the Workers' Party that is alone on the good solutions for building the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e613	At the end of his post, Højbråten came into a very important word that means a lot to the development of Norwegian society, where the Christian People's Party is very strong. He was talking about the human world. The most important human value is that all people should be equal, and that all people should have equal opportunities in an open and democratic society. What I'm concerned about knowing a little about, and which I'll ask Højbräten to explain to Stortinget, is: Why is the Christian People's Party against the Partnership Act? Why shouldn't people who are born into an open and democratic society with their sexual orientation still have the opportunity to have the same legal rights as all of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e620	Let me first say that I do not see human dignity as a requirement for human beings to be equal, as the representative Kolberg now expresses, but that every human being has a unique value, and that all humans have equal value. It doesn't matter what kind of race, what kind of sex, what kind of age and what kind of sexual orientation you have. You have the same human dignity. The representative of Kolberg was not in Stortinget in the previous period when we discussed the marriage law. Therefore I must forgive him that he is wrong about the Christian People's Party's view of these questions. We voted against the amendments to the Biotechnology Act and the Marriage Act and the adoption Act that the previous government proposed, but we did not vote against the fact that we should continue to have a partnership law, as the representative of Kolberg suggested, precisely because we believe that there should be rights for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e628	Family policies and values are, as we have heard, among the heart issues of the Christian People's Party. As Martin Kolberg also pointed out now, a majority in the previous period adopted the historical marriage law, which was accepted by the Christian People's Party. At their last national meeting, the Christian People's Party even agreed to continue fighting against the law. Fortunately, I would say, we have seen statements from profile representatives of the Christian People's Party, such as Hareide at national meetings and Inger Lise Hansen now after the elections, which are more liberal. My question to the Højbrätten is: Can the fall of the Christian People's Party in the elections be due to a small time-right view of value, for example. in the case of marriage law?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e635	I thank you for contributing to the electoral analysis of the Christian People's Party. We're doing our own assessments of this as well. So far, I would say that «a little time-real view of value» is a little striking expression of our own analyses. On the other hand, I think it is quite important for us to find that once we have fought for the rights of children to a mother and a father, the children's right to know their origin, which was our main reason for going against the marriage law, and which was the main reason why the national meeting of the Christian People's Party was also unanimous – with the votes of the representatives you mentioned – wanted us to continue to stand on that view into the next growing-up period, it is because these are fundamental values. There are values that are never going to wear off. The political solutions must always be discussed, but the fundamental values of children's rights will never be celebrated by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e642	The representative, Dagfinn Høybråten, is an experienced representative. All posts shall pass through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e645	Since this is the day of the great congratulations – at least some – we should also be able to congratulate ourselves on having our first President with a migrant background. It's a brand day. Norway is changing. I thought I would stay a little bit at the time the Højbråt took up last in its post, namely the center. It has to be allowed to say that the center has made better choices overall. It has also been done by the Christian People's Party. But that's also the point of light. Four years ago, we were more concerned with defining each other out of the center. I don't feel like you're today. I also cordially agree with the Højbråten when he says that the center is not dead. On the other hand, the central part is now the largest central part of the second consecutive elections. That's what we've become together with the Working Party and SV. For the Christian People's Party and the Left, the arrow has pointed in a completely opposite direction. I want to ask the Højbråt in the light of the experience he has gained in recent years: how does the Højbråt on the road to growth of the center and the Christian People's Party look together? Is it through cooperation with the Right and Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e654	Let me first apologize for not accusing the President of my previous speech, despite my experience. So I want to say to the representative Borten Moe that I think we share the basic issue that the center defines itself primarily through the values that the central parties have brought forward in Norwegian politics over many generations, and not through their relationship with other parties. The centre has defined itself differently over time in relation to other batches. In the previous period and during this period, some of the centre parties have chosen different partners. But it doesn't mean that you're not a center party, it doesn't represent important center values. I want us to come back to a situation where the center can really be at the height of Norwegian policy. We were in those days when the center ruled the country together. That possibility does not exist at the moment, but it may come if the representative Borten Moe and I get what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e661	It was rather in the middle of the post the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten addressed himself directly to the representative Kvifte Andresen. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e666	I guess I won't reveal a big secret to this assembly if I tell you that the election didn't go exactly as left-wing wanted. We lacked 3,173 votes, which is the difference of being two or seven in this room. But it was a lot of things that we were running election campaigns that we're actually very proud of -- both the permanent protection of the Lofoten and the Vestral, making a big and drastic reform for the municipalities and building our welfare state. We have raised very important principles of the rule of law in both the field of asylum and immigration. And we were quite lonely in the election campaign when it came to fighting for privacy. The liberal principles relating to anti-populism, to the radical solutions and to being visionary are important honours and an important legacy that both I and the other representative from the Left are set to manage. The government presented a statement that is the basis for today's debate, which lacks both vision, will and strength. We saw that Obama was awarded the Peace Prize for her visions and for her ability to create hope and to create fellowship around great promise in society. Then it is rather petty to see a prime minister who presents asylum restrictions as the most important matter when he holds a press conference on a new government statement. In 1954 and 1981, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees received the Peace Prize. In 2009, the Government presented a statement stating that less attention should be paid to recommendations from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. It is a government statement containing 50 ‘estimated’, 43 ‘strengths’, 12 ‘enforced’, nine ‘explored’ and 23 ‘revised’. So this is a government that has been in power for four years. They have had time to review, evaluate and evaluate long distances. Now you could have expected action. It's not that society has no challenges in front of it. We in the Left have a program that we're going to work for in this period, which says there are three major challenges to society. The most important thing is to fight for the low-carbon society, bring us from being a fossil nation to being a nation built on renewable energy. It's not just about buying ourselves abroad, it's about turning technology, we have to convert technology in Norway, we have to build new environmental jobs, we have to get a tax shift from red to green taxes, and we have to take care of all the changes we can to change the way we build our society. Today we have presented a Document No. Eight proposals on how we're going to work on this together, and we hope that it's going to have to push the government in a more active direction, to also take a takeover nationally and not just buy free internationally. The only thing we find in the government statement is a symbol – you change the name of a directorate – of perhaps one of the greatest challenges we face as a society. The second major challenge is how to build the knowledge society. It's about how we're going to get to a better school, how we're going to get more research and innovation, and how we're going to get more people to start businesses. When it comes to getting to a better school, we all know that the most important input to get to it is better teachers – teachers who are so good that they see the talent of each individual student, teachers who actually have the opportunity to develop the opportunities of each individual student, safe, good, respected teachers who are safe on their subject and who have authority in their class on the basis that they are well educated. Then it is to bet on an hour free SFO error. Then it's the wrong focus, it's the wrong bet, and it's not a recognition of what's really the big challenge we're facing. Nor is there anything in the government statement that we should suspend research. There's no pressure to create innovation to create the new jobs we're going to live on in the future. It's not just about figuring out how we're going to spend public money, but how we're going to create that money for the future, and it's right in research, innovation and having a real boost on that whole sector. There is also no incentive to start businesses in the government statement. In fact, the word ‘founder’ is not mentioned in the Government Declaration. It's the people who are going to create the jobs we're going to live on in the future, the jobs we've never heard of, based on the knowledge and research that's going to take us forward. It's quite sad that you don't have a government that recognizes that it's actually one of the most important driving forces we have to stimulate in society. The third major challenge we're facing is how we're going to be involved and develop the warm welfare state that includes everyone. We see that we are facing a challenge by getting older, but we also have a challenge in terms of getting more knowledge-based public services. It's not always just a competition to get the warm hands into public services, but also the wise minds. We see that the number of poor people is increasing, especially increasing child poverty, and where in the previous election campaign there was talk of a question of will, I don't know if there is any real will either. Because you're so concerned about a structural conservative approach to both municipal sizes and the way we work in public, that we don't get to the renewal that can actually be with and preserve our welfare state in the future. Today we have put forward ten proposals on how we can combat poverty, especially among children, and we hope that the Government can at least participate in a conversation to be able to find a broad consensus on how to attack it in the future. But in addition to the three major challenges, the three major visions that we have said in our programme are the important ones, there are many other tasks that it is also important to address. Privacy is facing an increasing threat. If we don't have clear driving rules in the digital world as well, we're going to have a privacy that's getting more and more pressured, not only by the public, but also in view of the private surveillance of us as individuals. We also see that the institution of asylum is increasingly under pressure, and the Government considers it one of the greatest challenges we have to face, so that we have to make major cuts in asylum policy. We also see that we have a government that uses the word 'internetation'. I don't want to bring the memories back to the last time we had a government that used the term 'internetation'. It is important that we build our state on fundamental rule of law, where one is actually imprisoned by law and judgment, not just internalized without further ado. It's a huge challenge, as Dagfinn Høybråten said, to return to the political center. But we believe that there is a great need in Norwegian policy for a liberal and radical centre party. It's the way in this room that there are between 14,000 and 15,000 votes behind each delegate sitting in this room. Behind the Left's delegates, there's 52,000. We're going to make sure that the role of a radical and liberal centre party continues, and we're going to make sure that none of the 52 000 per. The representative shall feel that their voice has been lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e695	Step Skei Grande started his speech by complaining about the Left's election result, and I want to start the line by expressing sympathy with the Left, because I think we need the Left in Norwegian policy. Some of the best comparisons we've had in Stortinget, the Left has been on, both in relation to the climate, in relation to the elderly, etc., and I feel sure that the many voices behind the two representatives of the Left in Stortinget will be well represented by these two representatives. Therefore, it is also interesting that Trine Skei Grande spends so much time punishing in particular the Workers' Party, but also the entire Government, in its article. The retiring leader, Lars Sponheim, went quite early after it became known that he was going off, out and recommended the Left to seek cooperation with the Workers' Party. Now it's always interesting to hear what Sponheim has on his heart, but it's perhaps more interesting in this context to hear what Trine Skei Grande thinks about that matter. Is she sharing Sponheim's vision, or is she not going to follow her party leader's call?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e702	We went to the elections to wish for a bourgeois government, based on the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right. It was a broad consensus in the Left; it was a broad mandate we had from our national meeting. The voters said no, and then we have to take note of it. What is important for us in the Left now is to establish the centre of Norwegian policy, to strengthen the centre of Norwegian policy and to fight for the important issues. We like to do that in cooperation with other parties, both to the right and to the left. I have to say that to us, the issues are important, and that is why I criticised the Government in relation to matters – the lack of vision, the lack of focus on climate, and the fact that asylum is being promoted as one of the main challenges facing our nation. I think that's the wrong focus, and we're going to spend these four years bringing policy into focus on the major challenges that we think are important. That's what we're going to spend time on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e708	I record a relatively elusive approach to my question. It's probably true, as Trine Skei Grande himself here also says, that the election result can hardly be interpreted as a popular demand for either getting more left-wing policy or getting the Bondevik II parties back in government. But in the coming period we can expect closer cooperation between the Right Party and the Advance Party in this Chamber, although Siv Jensen did not respond particularly well to Helga Pedersen's challenge when it was just that question. And then we heard at the same time what Siv Jensen was concerned about in terms of politics. That's why it's very interesting to hear how the Left will maneuver in such a landscape, with a closer cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party on one side and the Red-Green Government on the other. But it might be that clarity and honesty are something that we can rather expect from disfellowshipping party leaders than from upcoming party leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e713	If Stokkan-Grande was present in the election campaign, he has probably seen that the differences between the Left and the Advance Party are clear and obvious. I think we had a pretty clear campaign on it. Major changes are required in the policies of the Progress Party to bring about an approach between the Left and the Advance Party during this period, so I have no great expectations of that happening. But it's clear to us that it's the political issues that are important, and we're working with the parties that help us get through the issues that we think are important, and that the National Conference of the Left has prioritised as important. That is what the voters have given me, and that is what my party has given me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e718	We have registered that Left has challenged SV on distribution policy. We are pleased because we need all the good forces to achieve a better distribution policy in Norway. But it's not right with the Left's desire to remove the property tax. This will mean that many of the richest in Norway will be zero tax payers, and we know that 800 of the richest in Norway pay more than one third of the property tax. But that's not the biggest challenge. The main challenge is that the removal of property taxes will reduce the income base to combat poverty by DKK 12 billion. Is it this Left that believes in a more offensive policy of distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e723	I hope that SV will accept the invitation we made today, with ten proposals relating to poverty. It's not like taking the most from the richest has always given something to the poor. Because what we're talking about here is that you actually create jobs – related to what's the property tax. It's about the craftsman who has to work very hard to get money into a tax based on a warehouse he has, or the scientist who has to make sure that his wife pays the property tax based on some imaginary figures relating to shares he has. Fortunately, in the case of property taxes, SV has had some good symbols to refer to. But if SV had cared about talking to the individual trader, cared about opening the door to an enterprise and asking how they are doing, they would have seen a completely different reality as to what wealth tax means. In the case of property taxes, employment actually means jobs, and jobs are also important in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e730	The representative, Skei Grande, said in his introduction and in a reply to the Prime Minister earlier that the peace prize bears the mark of opportunities and hope ahead, and that is very good. The representative also pointed to the need for compromises on the major issues, which I believe, for example. education should be, in order to meet the major challenges ahead in terms of climate. Not least I share the representative's wish for better teachers. During the election campaign we then understood that the Left does not see itself served by a government consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. After all, politics is about getting its policy through. Will this change the Left's cooperation strategies with the government parties in Stortinget, so that there can also be opportunities and hope for the two representatives of the Left in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e740	My hope is not linked to the representatives of the Left, but to the issues we are actually fighting for. If the government is really willing to turn to the Left and look at the proposals we have in the field of education and research, cut the gap between research, as this government has put in place, do something about the basic grant to all research institutions, care about all the measures we have put in to recruit more teachers, see if we can increase teacher training by one year – so look at all these measures – then yes, we are happy to compromise on finding the solutions. But so far, we haven't seen that a focus on this is something the Center Party has achieved in government, if this is at the top of the Center Party wish list.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e745	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e748	After the red-green election victory four years ago, there was a great tension with the Soria Moria declaration when it was presented. At that time I had a different lookout place than what I have today: I was the county rapporteur in Finnmark. And I remember when I was brilliantly satisfied with the visions and objectives that were drawn up for the Northern Region policy in the Government Declaration. I was pleased with all the measures that were specifically mentioned in Soria Moria, but I was also pleased that the initiatives and ideas that were sown in the north were captured by the new government parties. Then you could also record that there were skeptics who asked, Will you succeed? Today, when I make my first post as a representative of the big business, we can see that northern Norway is in a completely different mode than a few years ago. We can see with our own eyes that things are happening, and that the continent is changing. The oil and gas age have come to Finnmark, more of the research on the north takes place in the north, and many long-term transport projects are started. But the most important thing is that the county has regained self-confidence. Before that, Northern Norwegian politicians traveled south to tell us about the problems. Now it's the government politicians and businesses that go north to discuss how to get things together. All problems have not been solved, but the direction and mentality have changed. When I start with the Northern Region policy today, it is because the everyday life of politics is largely about individual matters, individual decisions and how much money you want to spend for a given purpose. It is an important part of the political craftsmanship and the political work. But first and foremost, policy is about vision and direction choices. Money usage without vision and objectives does not produce lasting results. But visions that are accompanied by concrete action can change society for generations. That is why the Soria Moria declaration was so important not only to the part of the country I come from, but to the whole country. That is also the case with the new political platform for the red-green government. It points out a long-term course for Norway. We want a society where everyone is going, and where all people are going to have equal opportunities to realize their dreams for life. The big money is going to go to the biggest problems. Well-being and community go ahead of tax havens and privatisation. The most important priority of the Workers' Party is work for all. Having a job to go to is the most important prescription to be included in the community and to prevent social differences and create a society without poverty. Today, when we have Europe's lowest unemployment here in Norway, it is linked to political visions and priorities. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is no. 1st@item: inlistbox We should not pause or reduce our efforts even if our unemployment is low compared to our neighbours in the Nordic countries and Europe. We'll do even more. I would like to stress that the financial crisis is not over. It's just asking the export industry, not least in the West. Without the many measures put forward by the Government, the situation for many would have been quite black. The situation is still demanding too many. That is why it is too early to cancel the financial crisis. Without an active policy to ensure people's work, we are at risk of individuals and communities being introduced into permanent exclusion. The fight against unemployment is the battle for a community that includes all. The 70,000 people in Norway who go without a job need a strong community that includes everyone. And the Norwegian community needs all the available hands to solve tomorrow's challenges: creating values and new jobs, renewing, improving and strengthening the Norwegian welfare community and meeting the climate problem. Four years ago, many young children's parents were anxious about whether we would be able to achieve the goal of full child-care coverage. We did it. Every day for thousands of young children's parents has become easier. It's a vision that's come true. Now we have set ourselves the goal of ensuring full health care coverage. That means 12,000 new hospital places by the end of 2015. This is a concrete objective which will require appropriations from the annual budgets. It is a goal that will help us to realise our vision that everyone in Norway will be able to meet the age with security. It's the most important thing -- that you get the help you need when it's needed. This is a vision we share with many. And when we get many to want it together, this country can achieve great results. That's how we built the Norwegian welfare community, and that's how we're going to build it on – even in times that can lead to greater economic uncertainty than what we've been used to. I started talking about the northern regions, and I also want to end there because people and natural areas in the north will be hit hard by climate change – whether we are talking about the living conditions of the polar bear, the future of the fishing communities in Greenland, or loot fishing. Climate policy is likely to be the most important policy area to ensure the well-being and development of the north, just as it will be for many other countries and peoples of the world. The solution is also found here in strong communities and in that many work towards the same goal of preventing the temperature of the globe from rising by more than two degrees. That is why we need to work to establish a new international climate agreement. Norway should be a driving force for this, and in such a framework we should also put in place our national policies. The challenges we face both nationally and internationally require the best of all of us. The working party wishes to have a constructive relationship with the opposition. We have respect for their role, and we are prepared that the opposition parties will attack us in those areas where we disagree. It is a strength for democracy that political differences emerge in a clear way. But politics is not just about disagreement. It is also about gathering when there is a basis for it. That's why we're also going to be open to input from the opposition parties in this magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e797	First, allow me to welcome the representative Pedersen to the Stortinget and the Prime Minister School. It's going to be interesting to work with the representative Pedersen. I record that the three fs from the Government are continuous: improving, renewing and strengthening. But I'm looking for the best ability for what's new from this government in terms of innovation. I see a lot of reinforcements of existing measures and medicine, but I'm looking for the new. I would like the representative Pedersen to give me some signals about what is new in what this government is going to do for the next four years. I would also like to challenge Mr Pedersen's representative to the monitoring directive, or the data storage directive. This situation now appears to require the Workers' Party to seek support from the Right in order to obtain a majority in favour of this Data Storage Directive. Will the representative Pedersen ensure that this matter comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e806	First of all, if anyone is in doubt about it, I would say that I am not at the Stortingen to go to school, but to realize the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government's visions for this society. When we're going to strengthen and renew the welfare community, it's primarily about giving priority to money there instead of on tax bills, which the Progress Party wants. The renewal is about a lot of different things. These include: on renewing the road network, which I know Sandberg's representative has been involved in many ways. It's also about doing things in new ways, which we're going to do, among other things. through the inter-action reform. We are concerned about short waiting times and short queues in health care, but we must also ensure that fewer people end up in those queues. People will then be able to trust the Workers' Party in the fight against crime. By introducing the Data Storage Directive, if it does not have unacceptable consequences for privacy, we will have one of our most important tools in the fight against child pornography and organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e816	This whole financial crisis that we've been through has been dominated by the rhetoric of a very great belief that the Workers' Party has had all the right solutions. My question to the representative is: is there one main reason why we have now come through the financial crisis so well, namely that we have had an oil income, both an oil fund and an activity in the oil sector that has been formidable and greater than most other countries have? Do you see that it's actually where it's getting harder right now? Today, less activity is reported in the oil sector. So today's government platform gives signals that you shouldn't give any new incentives into the oil sector. What does the government want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e823	There is no doubt that Norway had a better starting point for meeting the financial crisis than many countries have. But the way we've met the financial crisis is not only about how much money we spend, but also about how we spend the money. I think it's interesting that, with the financial crisis, we have lower unemployment than we had under the Bondevik II government, without a financial crisis. It is also tempting to make a comparison with Sweden, where they have also spent a lot of money, but where they have spent money on taxes. They have a unemployment rate that is several times higher than that of the Norwegians. Half a million people go free. In Norway, there are 70,000. There are still too many, but I think our approach has been right. Oil companies shall also have access to interesting exploration areas during the next period. It is very clearly fixed in the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e830	The election campaign is over. The Soria Moria II declaration is on the table. In the case of approx. An hour today there will be some very disappointed students outside the Stortinget. Eleven months of study funding was promised by many red-green representatives from all three parties throughout the election campaign. The programme work, led by the representative Pedersen in the Workers' Party, also gave strong signals that eleven months of study funding is something that will soon be put in place. For the Christian People's Party, the students represent the future. We know that you get a poorer and uncertain economy through the study period, it can weaken your ability to study. That's why it gets very painful that you don't get this in place now, if you're going to think about the future. So my simple question is, how did the government parties negotiate a case that all three parties agreed on, and that they have promised throughout the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e839	There are a lot of things that the government did in the last period that were not in the Soria Moria statement, and there may also be a lot of good ideas we're going to implement in the next period that's not in the government platform. As far as students and access to higher education are concerned, I believe that the most important thing now, in the situation we are in, with increasing unemployment, is to ensure that there are enough places to study for those who want to study. So we have to do the most important things first, and that's to secure the study space for those who want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e846	On the news today early we could hear that students in small municipalities are at risk of getting less training than those living in larger places. A principal who was interviewed told the NRK that they lacked a system that supports and helps the principals in their educational work. We see the same issue in the area of child protection. Small municipalities have difficulties building up their skills so that they can offer good support to disadvantaged children. The left went to the choice of a programme for larger municipalities with greater responsibilities than the current one, in particular in order to provide better welfare and health services. The question to the Labour Party's parliamentary leader is whether she agrees that today's municipal structure does not give citizens of small municipalities the same quality of services as citizens of larger municipalities. Does the representative Pedersen think that we need bigger municipalities to erase this difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e855	Both the Labour Party and our partners in the Government are concerned about having a good welfare offer, a good school, no matter where you live, whether it's in a big city or in a small municipality. Our most important tool to ensure this is that we have a good community economy, that we spend money on school and care for the elderly instead of tax havens. I see that there are some places where there is a need to make changes to the municipal structure, but I believe that in order to get a good process, it is important that it is based on volunteering, and that the state is willing to cover the extra costs of merging. It is also reflected in the Soria Moria II declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e862	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e865	When a majority government has been re-elected for the first time in Norway since 1969, it is not only a historical but a very clear political signal from people in Norway. It is a vote of confidence, and it is a vote of confidence for a red-green policy. What this government has won is a policy that has shown a willingness to change over four years, which has shown a willingness to settle with a market thinking and a policy for tax havens that had gone too far and through, for example, too far. The child care reform or the introduction of free educational material in school has shown that the will to reform our welfare society and our welfare state in a positive direction is back in Norwegian policy after a few years of development in the opposite direction. It is also a vote of confidence in a government that has made it clear that almost no one in Europe has succeeded in fighting unemployment. Winning the fight against unemployment is primarily a question of political priorities and of putting the fight for work first. We see this very well in the unemployment figures we have in Norway, where it is that every single unemployed person is too much, but where the statistics are far better than, for example. in our neighbouring country Sweden. A year ago, I visited workers in construction sites around Bergen, together with their trade union. There was great fear of what would happen to the jobs in the sector during the year that came. I took a short check back with the trustees. Although there have been challenges, the situation is far better than anyone had thought a year ago. An important reason for this is that money from the Government's package of measures has been used to keep the wheels running and provide work to those who build buildings and create important new values in my city and in our country. The difference between Sweden and Sweden is striking. Not only do they have a much higher unemployment rate than what we have, but they have also chosen a different strategy in the face of unemployment. To put it simply, we have spent money in Norway on the safest thing we can do, public money to solve good societal goals and get people to work at the same time. We have spent our money on, for example: to clean up public school buildings, while in Sweden it has been decided to provide tax havens to try to stimulate the cleaning up of private bathrooms. What is fasitating is that the red-green policy in Norway has succeeded much better than the bourgeois policy in Sweden. The financial crisis that triggered this situation is the result of global capitalism out of control, of a financial economy that was allowed to grow out of proportions instead of being a travel agency for the real economy. Now, the objective of this period is to provide a basis for it not to happen again, through a strong public sector that counterbalances the instability of the economy, through a regulated working life that provides people with security in everyday life, through a more social housing policy that can help curb instability in our economy, and through better regulation of the financial sector. The government is signalling many different actions in this direction in the government platform, and it has also started processes to ensure that we have important debates on the main societal issues in the future here in Stortinget. The Financial Crisis Committee will present a position on what we can do in relation to the regulation of our economy. The distribution committee has already presented its position, which we are going to debate here in this Chamber. It provides an excellent opportunity to respond to what is needed both to solve the poverty challenge and to create a fairer distribution. Interestingly, the conclusion of the Distribution Committee is that the main instrument is broad universal welfare schemes and that it is through bet, for example. in schools and kindergartens that we lay the foundation for a more fair society. Soria Moria II shows a clear willingness to continue a red-green policy, and the influence of SV is evident in many areas of the declaration. For example, the Government announces the introduction of a maximum limit for the number of students per year. teacher at school and introduction of a free-time SFO. This has been issues that SV has been running election campaigns on because we know that learning, well-being and balance are three things that are related. Several teachers are our main tool in creating both a better school and cohesion and fighting against, for example. poverty in the future. The SFO has proved to be an instrument for both learning and balancing. Another important point of the government platform is the fight for equal pay, and the government platform is historically in that area. I rub my eyes every time I hear Siv Jensen talk about equal pay. It is true that all of us who represent political parties often have discussions about how to expand the party's profile, because it is important to reach more people. But at the same time you should think about – and I think most of us are concerned about it – that you should not go so far into the joke that your pants crack. There is what the Progress Party is in the debate on equal pay – a party that has systematically gone to war against the unions of public servants wherever they have power. Norway’s most man-dominated party is asking for credibility in the issue of pay raise for government employees ladies. It is only the government that can and has the will to implement what is needed to achieve a specific equality of pay gap in Norway. I think it's just promised that, the will to enter into dialogue with the social partners about it, Soria Moria II will be remembered most for in retrospect. For the first time, we have been given a government that signals a clear willingness to take responsibility, recognizing that the issue of equal pay is a political responsibility, demanding the parties to provide models that can contribute to lasting cohesion, that take a decision on the distribution between groups, and that, on that basis, we can engage in a dialogue with the Government on models to reduce the pay gap. It is entirely in line with the way the Equal Pay Commission has argued, and that is in line with what SV has argued about in order to solve the equal pay challenge. SV's image is also clear in climate policy. We now have a government platform that gives hope to the climate negotiations that are so vital to the Copenhagen meeting in December. The will to strengthen the objectives is the most important signal we can give in a situation where there is considerable uncertainty about how much in countries is willing to contribute and how much they are willing to accept. Showing that there is a rich country that is willing to take responsibility, which is willing to pay what it costs, both in terms of transforming our own society and contributing to changes abroad, is extremely important. It gives hope to a vital process. It is also the case that climate permeates this platform in many other areas, not only in the chapter dealing with the environment. It has been an important objective for us to ensure that climate policy is not just a matter of concern to us in the environmental debate, but a matter that needs to permeate different areas of society, as it does in the chapter following the government statement. For example, in transport policy, where not only a strong railway effort is announced, but also clear steps are taken to continue to link funds to public transport with measures to limit car use, and other measures are taken that will be necessary to lead to a transition to a more climate-friendly society. In the field of foreign policy, we note, among other things. Norway will now have new objectives in terms of its role as an arms exporter. The goal of an end-user declaration for the export of weapons to all countries, including NATO countries, which is set out in the platform, has been important for SV for many years. The dialogue advocated by the Government in relation to NATO’s nuclear strategy is extremely important – not least because the award of the Peace Prize on Friday clearly signalled that the nuclear debate is back on the agenda. I am also pleased that the Government in Afghanistan question, despite the fact that the SV's starting point, known as another in that debate, has chosen to continue the military engagement, but at the same time does not formulate itself in such a way that it is written in stone. That is wise, because it is necessary to hold an open and honest debate on developments in Afghanistan in the years to come, and SV will take on a leading role in it. The government platform is a red-green policy platform. SV shall use all its influence in the Government and here in Stortinget to fight for it to be as red and green as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e904	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Lysbakken on his position as parliamentary leader. It's going to be interesting to see how he shoots the work in the constellation he's in. So I just want to remind the Lighthouse that when he talks about unemployment, he should not underestimate the 140 billion kroner that this government has been able to trigger in investment in the oil and gas business on a Norwegian base – which is far higher than any other government has done – and that it has helped very much to keep the wheels going and to keep the unemployment low. So it's an amount that's much larger than the government's package of measures. But climate policy went through the Lighthouse a little quickly. I would like to point out, for example: the gas power plant at Mongstad, a gas power plant for which SV was involved in providing green light, without cleaning from day one. At best, it is likely that there will be cleaning from day 1501 when the cleaning plant may be up in 2014. But precisely because SV was so much to demand cleaning from 2014, and reports are now being seen indicating that it will be further delayed, I would like to ask: What role will SV play in relation to gas power plants in Mongstad if there is no cleaning from 2014 either?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e913	Thank you for your congratulations. I'm going to shoot the job to the best of my ability and hopefully better than Solvik-Olsen would want. First of all, in terms of unemployment and money, I am proud of all the crowns that we have used for purposes other than taxation, on which the Progress Party would have wasted billions, which had not helped to combat unemployment, but created unemployment instead. We are also very proud that we have shown our willingness in recent years to give priority to the issue of clean-up and CO2 capture. I am absolutely convinced that no other government had found all the money needed to achieve that goal. There have been many debates about dates. We stand by the agreements that have been made. But the fact that the Progress Party is suspended in the dates conceals the big question that is that we have had a government that has been willing to initiate this project, while the opposition would never have had the political will if they had been in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e926	The climate crisis will not be resolved by setting high targets alone, but by translating large ambitions into concrete measures today, which will deliver real results tomorrow. That ability has not been shown so far by the Government. The government was able to delete allowances of 13,5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2009. That equals 25 pst. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions. The government chose to sell the allowances for SEK 1.5 billion instead of cutting European emissions by 13.5 million tonnes of CO2. No other realistic Norwegian measures would have provided equivalent emission reductions in 2009. The question to the representative Lysbakken is: When SV is to replace words with action in climate policy, why did the SV Finance Minister not delete the surplus quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e941	I'm a little impressed by the new and green profile of the Right, because it's really new clothes. If you compare the climate effort of the previous government Right put in, with the efforts of the government that has been sitting in the last four years, I have far more reason to be proud than the representative that Astrup has. What will be the way forward in climate policy is that, first of all, we must have bold objectives for the Copenhagen meeting. Then we must have the will to follow up those objectives. The government says in the platform that after the Copenhagen meeting, an assessment will be submitted to the Stortinget, both on Norway’s climate policy objectives and on the instruments to be used. Then we would like to have a debate on which instruments are most appropriate, and we will be faced with the most offensive instruments possible. If the Right's new role in Norwegian policy is to be driving it, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e948	Let me also congratulate Mr Lysbakken as the new parliamentary leader. After listening to the radio today, I realize that he is also open to be congratulated as a government council next week. We'll see if it gets any of that. I agree when Lightbaken says that in politics it is important to reach more people. It's probably a challenge for both the SV and the Christian People's Party to carry with them after the choice we have behind us. I'm also concerned with the welfare community and the challenges not least those that are really struggling have. It's called "Crontal." ‘The government will not privatise or commercialise basic welfare services. The Government will further develop the interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors and non-profit institutions serving households.’.» Some of the things that surprised me and many people with me were that in the last period we've got behind us, child protection and care were being passed through. So my question to the Light Background is: does this indicate a change of course in the government's policy, or is not child protection and drug policy defined as welfare services in the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e962	Let me first say that I am glad that there are still voices in the opposition that raise these questions, which are concerned with poverty, which are concerned with care, and that hopefully we can have many debates that develop the questions further in this period, and not only that tone as a more right-dominated opposition, where the centre of gravity is shifted to the right, will probably set. We are concerned that there should be a clear public responsibility to carry out important welfare tasks, but that there should be room for ideal private actors at the same time. We are also concerned that we, for example: must have a legislative framework to enable us to operate in the long term, and we are concerned that we should put in place policies that can address the major challenges we face, for example. have regard to the provision of care and the protection of children. I am absolutely sure that the government parties and the Christian People's Party will be able to have a good dialogue on action in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e972	The left job throughout the previous ageing period was to transfer lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age to child protection. These children are among the most vulnerable and vulnerable children in Norway today. The government was talking about this transfer in the last period, but we were told that such a transfer would take some time. That's why, with distrust and disappointment, I read Soria Moria II, where the government straight out says that these children are chosen to be down-prioritized. Responsibility will not be transferred to child protection during the ageing period. On the way into Stortinget, I received a running slip from Redd Barna Youth, who responded to this and asked the question if the children of asylum were to be put on ice. The question is, how can SV deal with such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e979	I also got the race ticket. The cause of the asylum children is close to my heart and the heart of the SV. We have fought for the goals of the Government to lay the responsibility for all asylum-seekers under child protection. We got to it in the last period for the most vulnerable group, for them up to 15 years. The aim is to include all of them. So it's like both the number of children it's about, and the general situation in child protection makes this difficult to get to, both organisationally and financially, but we're not going to rest until we're in the goal of that question. We have chosen to be honest on the platform that it is difficult to achieve, but SV must be a driver to get it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e986	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e989	Norway has become one of the richest countries in the world by extracting a resource that has been given to us and which contributes greatly to the pollution that is destroying the climate on earth. It obliges us, and it makes the Center Party feel a heavy responsibility to contribute to our generation being able to track down history books, traces that show that Norway took responsibility when the world faced an ecological disaster, that we took responsibility when it was the most, that we used the opportunity and the responsibility given to us, as our contribution among many to the best of the world's people. But such a sorty will not come of itself, and it will not be free. We have to pour cold water into our own blood, because to this day we have not earned such a history book. The centre party is happy to sit in a government that will take international responsibility. We hope for the positive effects of rainforest purchase and quota system, but that's not enough. While the climate, food, water and financial crisis is shaking the world, the world is also very likely to change technology. Oil resources are about to decrease. Energy demand is increasing. The time for transition from the oil age to the renewable age, from the black economy to the green economy, is here, and it is our responsibility to ensure that Norway joins the new. We have huge renewable natural resources, and we have the economic strength. Only the will can stop us from becoming a state that actively interacts with business in order to transform Norway and create thousands of new green jobs. But it assumes that we actively and with strength work for change. The State must be a significant player in investing in new technology and infrastructure. I am pleased that the government parties in Soria Moria II have agreed on a commitment to renewable energy and new environmental technologies. Climate and environmental challenges have fueled the political conflicts of use and protection. For us in the Center Party, it is important to remember that it is use over centuries that has given us something to protect. It was when the world left the farmer's idea of leaving the land and the farm in better condition than when he took over, that the climate crisis became a fact. The only way to resolve the climate crisis is through nature management. Osteoporotic protection and predatory romanticism do not harmonize with the prudent management of Norway’s natural resources. The Government Declaration states that all countries shall have the right to produce food for their own people. Such a right has not been granted. It affects the possibility of imposing export restrictions in many poor countries and concerns the right to protect own food production through customs systems. The Government will continue its work on an international ban on export subsidies. We will continue to work to turn imports from rich countries into imports from poorer countries, but such imports must never be at the expense of people in the exporter country's right to food. The clarifications in the government platform on food security are very important in the run-up to any new WTO rounds. Both soil and water have increasingly become investment objects, raising serious challenges in the fight against the terrible distribution of resources in the world. The Central Party is therefore very pleased that the Government commits itself to strengthening efforts to ensure people’s right to food, through trade policy and Norwegian agricultural aid, and that there is no requirement for developing countries to liberalise key public services in education and electricity and water supply. Nearly 1 billion of our fellow human beings starve every day. The UN Food Organization estimates that we must double the world's food production in a few decades, we shall feed everyone. Large parts of humanity today do not have enough clean water. International water experts nevertheless believe that the number is at risk of increasing dramatically, and call for attention and concerted action by the UN. In such a perspective, it is obvious to the Centre that Norwegian international solidarity and Norwegian food production are not a contradiction, but go hand in hand, that active use of nature and Norway’s renewable resources is a contribution to wise ecological management. Environmental protection is not always the same as one-sided nature protection. Many species need care. The production of energy and food requires use. On Friday, it was announced that Barack Obama will receive the Nobel Peace Prize – a prize I see as a recognition of a change of pace in American security and foreign policy. Obama's message to the Muslim world has been dialogue. The harsh rhetorical line that prompted religious and cultural struggles has been abandoned, and the United States of America has not long been so clear that the United Nations is an important international decision-maker. Obama's stances on the missile shield, on nuclear disarmament and, not least, on the willingness to invest in renewable energy sources are very important to all of us. The world is also inside a security policy shift. The hegemony of the United States had for some years after the fall of the Wall, is now broken, and sails up new major powers like China and Russia. Norway’s main strategic and security policy challenges lie in the north. This recognition has led to Norway's neighbourhood initiative in NATO. The Government Declaration states that the northern regions are the first priority of the Defence and must be the design of the structure. The presence of all three defenses shall increase, and the Coast Guard shall sail more north. In other words, the territorial defense has not gone off course, as someone seemed to believe a few years ago. Sovereignty enforcement continues to involve the presence and requires visibility and volume. The Central Party believes that a balanced defence with the ability to carry out a very wide range of tasks both at home and outside, in the Norwegian tradition, can only be achieved through a popular defence based on the will to defend the population. The Government of the Declaration of Government and Defence Chief Harald Sunde at the time of accession underlines that the Norwegian defence shall be based on a duty of protection. The Government statement states that Norway should have a modern defence with army, maritime defence, air defence and home security that provides relevant capabilities throughout the crisis spectrum. The world has inherited the war against terror, as it was created in American language, from the Bush era. It also resulted in a strong restriction of privacy in many countries. The need for surveillance felt more precarious than before. The Data Storage Directive is part of this legacy. It was adopted as a result of the terrorist bombs in London and Madrid and became one of the European responses to the insecurity felt by many. It does not make the content of the Directive more edible, and it has rightly raised great resistance and scepticism. In the interests of privacy, the central party will oppose the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. We hope for an open and good debate on the directive and that representatives from various parties who are opposed to the directive will also dare to do so when the debate comes to the Chamber. The Data Storage Directive is just an example of the many implications that the EEA Agreement creates for Norway. The centre party is therefore pleased that, during this four-year period, a proper EEA debate has been finally organised. Soria Moria II states that a reduction should be made «research-based, broad-based public body to carry out a thorough and broadest possible review of the EEA Agreement and the impact of the Agreement on all social domains». The government statement states that the last year's climate, financial and food crisis must be taken into account in the international trade regime. It makes the willingness to address the major challenges facing the world and of which Norway is part. In the Central Party, the crises we have seen in recent years have led to a strong awareness of the division of land and peoples, the resilience of nature and our responsibility to act wisely on behalf of ecology in all the political priorities we make. It's a demanding ambition, but a very necessary one. I hope that the new bigotry will gather around some epoch-making wise choices that can help our generation earn the history book I dreamed of initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1030	There will be access to a cord change – the first replicator is Ulf Erik Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1033	I know the mayor has a lot of power, but the power to change our names he hasn't got yet. It's with Ulf Leirstein! First of all, let me congratulate the representative Vedum on his position as parliamentary leader in the Central Party. It's probably going to be a demanding job, which he probably looks forward to. That leads me to the question. In the election campaign, we recorded that the Central Party's fiscal spokesman was very concerned that some of the oil wealth would now be turned into real investment here in Norway. At the same time, I record that the Center Party has so far not joined that philosophy and that tactics, but I want to continue it – still – significant savings in the Oil Fund. After the election campaign, the Central Party's fiscal spokesman has also called for the introduction of a housing tax. Anyone who has a house over 120 m2 must be charged a significant tax to the community. Is this the central party's position, or does the central party's fiscal spokesman speak for himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1050	If you take the time to read the Soria Moria II statement – and it's highly recommended – you'll see that in chapter after chapter there are some review tones, and that's green conversion. We see it in the research chapter, we see it in the food chapter, we see it in the economic chapter, and we see it in the energy chapter. The tone is that we're going to use our resources to make a transition from what I called a black economy to a green economy. It's a pervasive way of thinking that all three parties share in the Soria Moria II Declaration, and it's the same way of thinking that our fiscal spokesman, Per Olaf Lundtägen, made himself a strong spokesman in the election campaign. It's a sensible way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1056	I must be allowed to remind you that all speeches are to be directed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1059	There's a lot of talk about the big international challenges of the Center Party, and that's not how much you get done. There will not be so much talk about the major challenges the Centre has in its primary area, and that is agriculture. Agriculture is hugely important for large parts of District Norway. There are many resource people there, and a lot of resources and capital are locked up in agriculture. It has to be activated. When we hear the Center Party talking, it's basically just about more of the same medicine that you've had before. It has led to evaporation, it has led to low income growth in the industry, and it has resulted in a complete lock-in of the structure. The centre party transfers ownership of agriculture from the individual farmer to the state bureaucrat. It has produced very poor results. How long are District Norway and agriculture going to suffer from the fact that the Central Party does not realize that their regulation and over-management of the individual farmer is a dead end?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1066	Sometimes I am wondering hearing representatives from the Right talk about developments in Norwegian agriculture and in Norwegian countryside. I wonder how often they have been looking at developments in the structure of use in Norwegian agriculture, because there has been a huge change in the structure of use. There is no locking at all. There are developments every day, there is modernisation and a radical change. In this government statement it is announced that a new big message will be presented to the Stortinget. One can have a broad and comprehensive discussion in Stortinget about what we want with Norwegian agriculture in the future. It is announced that there is a desire to further develop the income and welfare policy of agriculture. So here we all have the opportunity to have a broad debate. But there's a development, there's a lot of positive happening in agriculture, and there's going to be a broad message for the Storting, where we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1073	The centre party chose to strengthen the welfare pay system, but the government statement now only states that the scheme should be reviewed, while the previous Soria Moria statement stated that the care pay system should be strengthened, which it was not. We depend on family-based care to meet the challenges ahead. In this context, care pay is a very important tool. Is the Central Party down on this point, as the Government has adjusted its ambitions in terms of pay for care?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1080	Point 1: In terms of wages and salaries, if we are to be able to improve the scheme, the first prerequisite is that we review the scheme, because it is a national provision, but it is different practices in all the municipalities of the country. These are very different practices. That's why the Soria Moria II statement now announces that you want to have a review, look at different practices, gain experience and look at how you can make improvements. This is the beginning of the improvement process that we wanted. Paragraph 2: The declaration now states that if, for example, workers are to be granted a period of 10 days, they are to be given the right to freedom of movement for workers. the parents get sick, give a ten-day leave, which is also an improvement in the ability of families to take care of their loved ones in a care situation. Point 3: We've also looked at those who are going to care for children in the youngest phase, and want to assess the amount of aid on the one-off benefit, which is also an important matter in the same dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1089	I want to ask a question that goes on a matter that the Central Party and the Left have had a great common tradition of working for, namely small businesses. In the last period, we promoted a number of proposals that the Central Party was forced to vote against – sail if I really think they have a heart for small businesses. It does not look any better with today’s government statement, since, as I said, the word ‘founder’ is not even mentioned in the government statement. The same amount I read, I don't find any major measures that will make it better for small businesses. Perhaps the representative could have provided the Stortinget with a small reader guide as to where the major measures that make it easier to start new businesses and live as small businesses in the future are.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1098	If a reader reads the first heading of the Soria Moria statement, it says there ‘value creation’, that is a different word from the founder. If one also reads through the Soria Moria declaration, one will find the words ‘value creation’ and ‘nutrition development’ in place by location. So look for the word ‘value creation’ – it's point 1 – and then you see it. Point 2: It's a very clear direction in the value creation of this government statement. One wants a green conversion of Norwegian business. It wants to use research efforts, use public funds through Enova, use green certificates and transform Norwegian business into a more green and environmentally friendly direction. That's also very good. Point 3: Social rights, welfare rights, self-employed workers and how they can be improved so that they are more equal to workers. Point 4: The transport policy that the Government has pursued in the last four years, and which we are now committed to continuing, is the most important thing to have a good and well-functioning business life around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1109	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1112	The Government Platform announces a continued active and offensive Norwegian foreign policy. The main lines of foreign policy were discussed in depth when the Stortinget dealt with St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, interests, responsibilities and opportunities. We will give priority to our efforts on the basis of what serves Norwegian interests, and in those areas internationally where Norway has the prerequisites to make a difference. Norway’s interest is that foreign policy is broadly anchored. The government invites dialogue and cooperation with all the parties on the Stortinget, as well as the continuation of a more open and wider dialogue on foreign policy with the Norwegian community. The broad lines of foreign policy are enshrined in our strong commitment to the UN and international law, membership of NATO and the EEA Agreement, and Norway is not a member of the EU. The global challenges we face require efforts in a wide range of areas: active climate diplomacy, systematic work for human rights, conventional and nuclear disarmament, open and fair world trade, peace and reconciliation, the fight against poverty and the promotion of development, decent working life and a high level of commitment to child and motherhood. These are areas that will receive increased attention. The northern regions remain the main strategic focus of the Government. The bet will be reinforced. The Nordic regions and developments in the Arctic are now a whole, well placed on the international agenda, and we see developments in a wide range of areas; from the gathering of defence in the north to intensive climate research and focus on new knowledge and new industries. The Nordgebiet strategy and the plan document ‘New building blocks in the north’ indicate the direction of the initiative. We will work for the stability, environment and sustainable management of natural resources in the north – with a sustained focus on land-based knowledge and value creation. Climate change is evident in the north and on the glaciers on the world's roof. Melting ice and open seas underline the importance of acting to stop the heating. In the north, on the basis of the law of the sea, we will further develop rules and standards for transport, search and rescue and monitoring of the sea in northern waters. The government is doing this work, together with our neighbours in the north and the cooperation partners in the Arctic Council, the Barents Council and other forums. We will continue to develop broad and trusting cooperation with Russia and continue to work towards a balanced finalisation of the part-line negotiations. The Government will pursue an active European policy. The EEA Agreement regulates the core of our relationship with Europe, with the EU and with the EU's internal market. This is the most comprehensive international agreement ever concluded by Norway and is of great importance for Norwegian jobs, value creation and well-being. The agreement has now worked for 15 years. The size gathered in ours about a desire for a broad review of this agreement. In line with the Government Platform, the Government will now launch such a thorough and broadest possible review of the EEA Agreement and its implications in all areas of society. A lot is at stake in Afghanistan. The UN Security Council has unanimously stated that the situation in the country represents a threat to regional stability and international peace and security. Norway is in Afghanistan to make our civil and military contribution to the ability of Afghans to rule in their own country without the terrorist activity of Afghan soil being a threat to others. We went into the ISAF operation with our NATO allies. We will continue and complete our mission there with our allies and in close dialogue with the Afghan authorities. There is no definitive military solution in Afghanistan. A weak set of rules cannot be compensated for by more soldiers. As Afghanistan experts have stressed, the fight against rebellion only works as well as the government it supports. We await the final outcome of the election to a new president. We will make clear demands for a new Afghan government in terms of democratic governance, targeted work against corruption and drug production, and the ability to involve women and men of all ethnic groups in society in politics. The Afghans themselves must take the steps towards reconciliation. We have to support them in that way, and there is now a broad international consensus on such an approach. Our civil efforts contribute to Afghan capacity building. Our military efforts are also warped towards training, guidance and cooperation in the fields of Afghan security forces, which themselves must be able to provide security in the country. Therefore, we contribute significantly to funds for the expansion of the army and to funds for the expansion of the police force. Progress is being made, but the job is not finished. We will continue our military presence in Afghanistan as long as necessary. The date of dwindling will be determined in the light of developments in the country and in close cooperation with our allies. International society must continue to strengthen the coordination of civil efforts. The UN must play a key role here. Finally, let me express a strong recognition of the efforts of Norwegian military and civil personnel in difficult circumstances in Afghanistan. They show opposition and commitment to a mission of peace, stability and development. That is why they deserve our clear support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1151	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1155	It was good to hear the Foreign Minister explain the Government's ambitions, just as he does in the Soria Moria Declaration that exists. Of the things that I think are interesting and positive there, you want to focus on achieving goals, not least regarding the use of the World Bank as a tool. They say, among other things: the Norwegian volume of assistance to the World Bank depends on the Bank’s performance in terms of reform and democratisation processes. I think that's very positive. At the same time, I'm a little surprised that you're not as offensive about the UN. The UN has a bureaucracy that has grown larger than large, and which I believe Norway is well on the way, I believe should also be able to reform in a reasonable way. There is also a separate unit, The Office of Internal Oversight Services, to review the bureaucracy of the United Nations. They've recently produced a report that shows that things are like they are, you don't have the ability to do one thing. The result, as stated in the report, is that «no attempt has been made to track any saves or efficiency gains». Then my question becomes the Minister for Foreign Affairs: why don't you have the same critical focus on the UN as you have on the World Bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1164	I can sign that the Government is following the work of the United Nations with very critical eyes. We are doing it with the critical look of a supporter of the United Nations, namely that we want more and better work out of the United Nations, not a reduced UN, as other critics have sometimes stated. We have a prime minister who has been in charge of reforming the UN's work in fields, where the UN's work is all, most importantly, helping people who need it. That work is now giving positive results in several pilot countries, and I can guarantee that our UN delegations in Geneva and New York and on land follow the UN's work with the critical look of a country that is among the very largest contributors of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1171	The Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to identify Norway as an active co-player in Europe. I think that is wrong. We see a foreign minister who obviously thrives well as a foreign policy spokesman for a superpower, but that superpower is after all only in relation to Iceland and Liechtenstein, our EEA brothers. We have a foreign minister who in these times is actually pigs bound by his government partners in terms of European policy. We do not get an investigation of the consequences of an Icelandic membership for the EEA Agreement and therefore also for Norway, and we are in suspense and hear representatives of the government parties, both from the SV and the Central Party, who want Right's support to say no to the Data Storage Directive. We do not know what kind of consequences this directive will have for Norway if we use the veto. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs must be: how does he even want today's Soria Moria declaration to be an active driver of a Norwegian European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1180	I said a little about it, but I can refer to the previous period, where I thought we were doing the best of the freedom of action we have towards the European Union, and the agreements we have, through an active European policy and the Single European Act that have been presented. The word ‘superpower’ may be the representative’s own word. I have never claimed that Norway is a superpower in relation to anyone. I think it's a bad concept. Norway is closely interwoven with Europe in so many dimensions: economic, security policy, climate and environment; and we are pursuing a policy to safeguard Norwegian interests in it – workplaces, welfare, political influence. We're doing it on the basis that is the reality in today's Norway, that we have the EEA Agreement. We're not a member of the EU. The study of the EEA Agreement will provide us with a good basis for debate on how this agreement works. We are going to keep Stortinget closely informed about the possible consequences of any Icelandic membership. But we're going to say that one of the most important similarities between Iceland and Norway right now, or rather the difference, is that the EU resistance in Iceland seems to be greater than in Norway. So we have to take it step by step. As Icelandic membership approaches, the Stortinget will be thoroughly informed about its consequences for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1189	The Minister of Foreign Affairs answered – as usual, I would say – very wisely on a question from the Christian People's Party six months ago here in the Grand Chamber, based on a play from one of the Workers' Party's representatives that we need to assess whether countries that are not willing to accept their own citizens should lose help or help from Norway. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said here in the Chamber that: ‘I do not agree with that play, and I have made it very clear, because I believe it is an unmanageable signal and a bad tool to achieve the goal.’ [[...]] It was six months ago. Now the Stortinget is debating the government basis. It says that the Government will ‘use aid and development policies to support the return and reintegration of persons without legal residence in Norway’. My question is whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs has as wise judgements today as he had six months ago of this relationship, or whether he is a little uncomfortable with what has become the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1204	I can confirm that the wisdom is intact. I fully support that wording in this platform, because it states that there should be a means of making it possible to return. Then it's about giving help to the people who come from these countries. For example, the original statement gave an example. the impression that we were going to cut Norwegian aid to Somalia to limit the flow from Somalia. Somalia does not have authorities supported by Norway. We provide humanitarian aid through the UN, so that a cut in support there, or the use of aid, would initially be difficult to imagine how could help. However, in a number of other areas, in relation to some other countries, I believe that the wording is wise, namely that we should also use aid in a way that supports those objectives. The proposals to set up places, child care centres, children’s homes, youth homes for lone minor asylum seekers who could have a better stay there are examples that can be assessed and can be done in a sound and sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1211	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has shown an commitment to the world's poor and has been very much talking about equalizing social differences, a commitment to the Left and I share. Norway is the world's richest country and has a huge share of the world's resources distributed among a small number of people, from a global perspective. The starting point of a government claiming solidarity should be to take a greater responsibility for sharing our financial resources with more. When the Prime Minister presented the new government platform, he pointed to the fight against the flow of asylum. It shall be an area where the Government is reform-friendly and tightens up. I have a question and a hope. The question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the Government's tightening up of asylum policy is part of an international policy of solidarity with the world's poor – or has forces within the Government's own party come to pass in order to gain a choice mass that will not share our wealth? The hope is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will succeed in pulling forces in the Labour Party more towards the centre, in line with the values that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has included in the election campaign, such as: that everyone should be entitled to work, even if they come without ID.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1218	I have an approach to asylum policy which is based on the following: it is an extremely important instrument to provide people with refugees who are persecuted and who are entitled to protection, precisely protection. I believe that a development in which our apparatus for the reception of people in municipalities at the reception points is burdened with people who are not persecuted and who do not have the right to asylum puts the asylum institution at risk. That is why I am not saying that we should have a strict but fair asylum policy – we should have a strict and fair asylum policy. It is also clear in this government platform. In this way, we can discharge our obligations, both in relation to quota refugees from the High Commissioner and in relation to people on the run. It's not an exceptional state that people are coming to Norway, it's become a normal state, and that's how it's going to be for a long time, with millions of people on the run in the world. Then we have to clear our house, clear our appliances and be able to receive people properly, evaluate their applications – but distinguish between what are justified applications and unsubstantiated applications. It adds up to this government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1231	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1234	I have heard repeated ‘improve’, ‘enhance’, ‘renew’ in relation to Soria Moria II. To me, unfortunately, it seems a little empty, because it does not show that the government's ability to think anything new at all. This is particularly true in the area of justice and crime. I see that the government wants to investigate or at least look at the use of resources in the police, and other solutions for sending out criminal foreigners, etc. are being considered. But in this regard, I posted on page 10 of the budget position of the Justice Committee for the current year, where the government parties are relentlessly bragging about developments in the field of justice. I'd like to quote: ‘The majority indicate that there has been a positive trend in the fight against crime in Norway in recent years. The number of offences reported has decreased [[...]] But then we get the new statistics that show that, after the homeless list for the current year, crime has increased considerably, both in the field of theft, embezzlement and extortion: 200 pst. Increase in error rate, 93 pst. only in January 2009, 6000 more winning crimes first half-year, the clearance percentage has fallen dramatically from 19 to 15 p.m., 85 p.m. is not resolved, etc., etc., gross body damage by 42 p.m., raped by 17 p.m., damage by 20 p.m., gross fraud by 30 p.m. It's been one year since the government parties boasted unrelentingly about the good progress. I take it for granted that this year, when we are going to arrange a new position for 2010, it might be a little limited boasting about the development in 2009. It tells me that one has to think new. That's what I'm asking from this government, not just in the justice field, but in a number of other areas, that you have to think new. I would then like to state, as I have said in many respects, that for the Progress Party it will continue to be the main focus on those who feel insecurity and who are victims of a crime development that is negative for the whole of society. It will be the first and most important focus forward now. But it doesn't make the Progress Party look at the whole chain. We also need to focus on socializing criminals and getting them back to society in a proper way. But I honestly believe that now it has gone too far in forgetting victims and relatives in the crime and development we are witnessing. I note that the Minister of Justice and the Government have met the Progress Party in a number of areas in relation to thinking. It is also important to seek extradition agreements to get many foreigners out of Norwegian prison to zone in their country of origin. But I'm a little worried about it when the Minister of Justice says that an attempt should be made to settle in the country of origin at the same level as in Norway. Yes, then there are no penalties behind it, if that's how we're going to build prison abroad with Norwegian facilities. I'm afraid it'll only attract even more criminals to Norway. Here, there is a need to think anew about the development of crime and penalties. I have also recorded a major debate in the election campaign about using the resources in the police properly. The blackmail police have been in a debate all along. I note that the Minister of Justice also partially followed the Progress Party. It has never been possible for one to reduce the resources in the call-out policy, but it is possible to use these resources in a more sensible way. Finally, what has struck me in the last few weeks is the focus on crime among young people and children – not least child abuse. We have had a few things now that are completely grotesque, and that show that we lack competence in all the joints that are going to deal with that kind of thing. There must be increased focus in the future, not least on youth crime. Now we have had two things in which we see development – it is becoming more and more serious and more reckless in cases where youth commits crime against other youth, making the growth of young people very impeccable. We need to focus more on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1258	I have been in many debates with Per Sandberg, and that is always a great joy. Many times when we have discussed, we have discussed work. Sandberg installation testifies to changing the workspace. I want to ask him a question about work. In the previous period, the Progress Party voted against restricting access to temporary employment, and yes to 13 hours of work and longer working weeks without entitlement to overtime payments. The party agreed to weaken job protection and to reject all measures to prevent social dumping. Can we expect that the Progress Party will also, in this period, foreshadow such a policy, or can we expect a line shift that, at least for the Progress Party, will be new to think about, if you're going to be interested in the f's.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1265	First, I want to refute all of these false claims that come from the representative. They are fully in line with what LO has presented in the election campaign, which appeared to be a direct lie about the policy of the Progress Party. Among other things, claims were made that we wanted to weaken and change the health pay scheme. It was a direct mistake. But yes, we are honest that temporary employment will be positive for many working groups in Norway, among others. youth. However, not least for immigrants with difficulties in entering the labour market in Norway, temporary employment will be a positive instrument. It's also wrong that we haven't counteracted social dumping. If there's anyone who's done it, it's the Progress Party. We've been at the forefront of creating jobs, giving you the opportunity to get inside and show that you're doing the job, and thus also show that you're doing well to get good pay and working conditions. But what is the challenge, and what the Workers' Party is forgetting in the broad context, is that Norwegian workers are at risk of being out of competition because labour immigration to Norway has been increasingly uncritically open to Norwegian workers, without taking into account Norwegian workers' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1272	There is a consensus in the UK to fight blind violence, violence and assault on children and women, and not least everyday crime. During the last period, the government has made a hard-on. We're now training policemen like never before. But that's not enough, we know that, and that's why we're working on it. Among other things, we have a measure that the Government has now proposed, namely to reduce the turnout time by one hour. It will give us increased police force that we can use against violence, blind violence, violence against children and women, and not least against everyday crime. My question to the Progress Party is: Will you support this action? It will give us the police force to fight precisely the crime that Per Sandberg's representative was now involved in at the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1279	The Progress Party is committed to combating all types of crime, and in particular the groups referred to here – children, young people, women – and not least the elderly who feel that everyday life is getting worse and worse from week to week. But hiding under the fact that alcohol is the cause of all types of crime in Norway will not be a part of the Progress Party. You can only study the kind of organized crime that we've witnessed in recent years and whether or not these people have been affected by drugs. Then I think you'll find other answers. On the other hand, with regard to the tipping policy, we will delegate it to the individual municipality and get it under local policy treatment, because we know that they may know best what suits the individual city or municipality with regard to the gift regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1284	Let me first stress that we in the Center Party are concerned that victims of serious crime will be better protected. I am therefore pleased that it has been fixed in the new government statement. When the Progress Party speaks of punishment, they may suspect that they use the word punishment synonymously with home. A bit of a joke and a little serious, I would say that the desire for the home of lawbreakers can be understandable and have a certain mental hygiene effect. But for us in the Center Party, there's no contradiction between taking care of victims, giving severe punishment for the worst lawbreakers, and driving the rehabilitation of lawbreakers. It's a clear goal to avoid new people becoming victims, and then the content of soning is actually important. What would the Sandberg representative like to do for the soning content?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1291	After all, the progress party does not differ from any of the Stortinge in terms of the content of the compensation. Where we stand out, is when you're going to have an open excuse, when you're going to get your first leave, when you're going to get a penalty discount, etc. That's where we stand out. There is no difference between giving a penalty rebate, as the Central Party and others want, and what the Progress Party wants, a restrictive approach to the penalty rebate. And when you're done with the compensation that you're convicted, the rehabilitation is going to start in the same way that the Center Party and other parties want. What we're clear about is people's legal awareness of the punishments you get for specific criminal acts: they're going to be completely curtailed, instead of giving the kind of criminal discount that the Center Party and others are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1296	The representative Sandberg spoke a lot about violence statistics and crime statistics — statistics that go wrong. Drug abuse is one of the important reasons why it is happening. I hope that together we can take action to reduce abuse and that the Progress Party can also contribute to reducing drug abuse. But earlier this year, the Progress Party had a proposal to open an alcohol hall at gas stations. The current Judicial Spokesman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, then supports that proposal. My question is, is this the solution to the drug abuse? Or can the representative Sandberg reject or scrape the proposal for an alcohol hall at gas stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1305	I believe that the representative should check more closely the truth of what is claimed, that I have supported such a proposal. I was the chairman of the program committee in the Progress Party, and I fully understand that there is nothing to sell any alcohol at gas stations. But today, the definition of a gas station is a little bit difficult. Many gas stations may be more likely to be considered a grocery store. It's almost hard to get petrol at gas stations. We are just as concerned about prevention and providing information on the adverse effects of drug use. That's what you have to focus on to a much greater extent. You can't act against a legal product in such a way that you almost ban it. I'm very critical that you always point to alcohol as a cause of all kinds of crime, because as I said in a previous line, I think that the investigations will show that serious crime is also largely committed by people who haven't been in contact with drugs at all. I think you should also focus more on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1312	No less than Norway's largest newspaper recently asked me what I thought about a criminal scroll being the head of the Justice Committee. The answer is that the Left gives all repentant sinners a new chance. That is why I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Sandberg on his position as the new chairman of the Committee on Justice. I want to ask questions about something the representative is going to work a lot on during this period, punishment and criminal principles. The Action Programme of the Progress Party states that the Progress Party wishes to have higher penalties in general. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to introduce minimum penalties for several offences. Does the representative Sandberg think that raising the penalties in general and introducing more minimum penalties, thus depriving the courts of the opportunity to measure the penalty individually, will lead to less crime? Or are there other reasons behind this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1319	First of all, I have to be allowed to say that I am very much in order that a picture like Abid Raja, who has never thrown a stone in a glass house, is the first to forgive a person who has done his job for 12 years on the Stortinget, and who wants to continue that job in a respectful and good way. In this way, I'm quite happy that it comes from the Left, which is going to be a party that has to include and be liberal, etc. But I could have come up with a lot of statements from exactly the representative Abid Raja who is going in the completely opposite direction. In terms of minimum penalties and penalties, I'm going to be very clear that we think it works, because we've tried the opposite, and it doesn't work. I have just referred to developments in particular profit crime, given that it has been signalled that the penalties should now be lowered by the current government. We already see the result, that crime is increasing much more. Another aspect of the Left and Abid Raja and immigration policy is that the Left wants to open up completely. It will increase crime considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1328	There was a lot to do here. The representative used some of his articles on statistics. And then he uses a lot of the answers in the lines to be a little disappointed that alcohol is being drawn out as an important reason for some of the negative statistics we have in the crime scene. But it's now so that we know that alcohol is inside the picture of 60 pst. of all recorded violence. We know that there are 3,000 deaths every year in Denmark where alcohol is inside the picture. We know that the Oslo City Council of the Right and Advance Party was overstepping the Oslo Police's clear recommendations in the context of the roll-out of the drug policy action plan. My question is: shall not research and knowledge be a guide for the new head of the Committee in the field of justice in the coming years? The representative himself referred to increased organised crime. [[The President clubs.]] The second question is, should the answer from the Progress Party be to reduce education at the Police College to one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1338	The President will recommend the representatives to stay within the allotted time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1341	I don't think I've ever said that in the Advancement Party we're not entirely in line with all the other batches when it comes to preventing and disclosing the adverse effects of the use of alcohol or drugs. We're in full line. But I think – I have now tried to say three times – that access to alcohol as an instrument to reduce crime alone is not enough. Alcohol is still in my view a legal product that can be legally marketed. Therefore, if you want to tighten the spectres in the municipalities, we delegate it to the local politicians, and then they take responsibility for it. That is why we have said that we now need to focus much more on the areas that I mentioned in my article. It is necessary to focus more on organised crime, brutal violence and crime among young people, abuse of children and that type of crime. And not least I have demanded that you focus more on the victim in those kinds of actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1351	All the representatives have received this week a letter from the girls at Capio Anorksi Senter in Fredrikstad. They ask for help to maintain a workable private treatment service. One of these is Heidi – who, before she came to Fredrikstad, had been in therapy with 53 different psychiatrists and psychologists. We also met her in Dagsrevyen's entry on 4 October. At that time, the impression was created that the new government platform would include a positive formulation on the use of private hospitals to reduce waiting lists. It was a positive news after we had heard the opposite throughout the campaign. Therefore, the disappointment was also great when the government platform was presented. There is no ambition to reduce health cows. One is still more concerned about who owns the hospitals than to provide patients with rapid treatment. All restrictions on the use of private hospitals — which have led to an increase in waiting lists by 50,000 patients in the last four years — have continued. Agreements between health establishments and private hospitals shall be limited, open capacity in public hospitals shall be used first and private commercial services shall continue to be distinguished from hospital owned and operated by non-governmental organisations. The right will use the free capacity of private hospitals to reduce health cows and provide patients with faster treatment. Health Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has talked about both drugs and Gerd-Liv after his departure was announced, and the same honest confession he also came with when he spoke about the need to use private people to bring down health cows. But he leaves the Government now, and the government statement has not taken up Hanssen's confession. The girls at the Capio Centre for Eating Disorders now deserve an honest response from the government parties on whether or not to continue their treatment. The health system is over-mature for reforms. Norway is among the OECD countries that use most public health spending per capita. person, but we don't get equivalent good health again for that. We're going to have more elderly people who will need more care and need help over time, we're getting new treatments, and more people get lifestyle diseases. Today's development is simply not sustainable. Departing Health Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has described this in an excellent way in the interaction reform. The right fully adheres to the need for reform, but not any reform. The Storting Message shows the right direction and has good visions. However, the instruments are both unclear, not sufficiently professionally thought out and in several areas deficient. Giving Health Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen credit for the cooperation reform is as premature as giving the Nobel Peace Prize to Obama. Both have created enthusiasm for a good vision, but none of them have yet delivered results. The right is in favour of a broad settlement on the inter-action reform, but has clear demands for reform changes in order for a settlement to be relevant. Local authorities must, among other things: be able to undertake the new tasks. The decision-makers must be able to spend more time on the individual patient, and we need to get better medical coverage on the nursing homes. But we don't do that by cutting into the lists of all the decision-makers or forcing them to become part-time nurses. Then we get even longer waiting time to get to the doctor, and we get uninterested doctors in the nursing homes. Rather, we need to change today's system, which makes it possible for decision-makers to treat as much as possible in the shortest possible time, and hire dedicated doctors to be doctors in hospitals. As regards both the use of private hospitals to reduce health cows and the need for changes in the municipal structure in order to improve interaction for the benefit of patients, it will be essential that we are willing to change the welfare state in order to preserve the welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1375	If we're going to be able to raise what many parties are talking about, in order to increase the quality and quantity in the care sector, we need people from many professional groups. One of the most important supports becomes all of the thousands of help nurses. In the election campaign, the right has talked about a separate competence pool. An important premise in this proposal is to raise the salary of some higher education groups while low-wage workers remain silent. So the right-hand proposal makes it a point that the pay gap between low pay and higher education should increase. Does the representative Höie believe that it is important for the recruitment of this sector that some higher education groups have a strong wage jump, while assistants and cleaning assistants remain on the platform? Does he not think that this approach will make it difficult to recruit people from more than one profession in the future, making it impossible to raise the elderly at national level?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1382	These are not the thoughts of the Right, but the ideas of the Equality Commission, under the direction of Anne Enger, where the biggest pay gap in Norway is between the public sector educational groups and the private sector educational groups. Today we have a situation where 30 pst. in the care sector, there is no education, i.e. unskilled. We have a situation where very many older people in our nursing homes experience mistreatment and mismedication. There is only one strategy that can carry us out of the situation that quality is declining in our care sector, and that is to increase the proportion of employees who have higher education and are educated as nurses. If we're going to get enough nurses to meet the challenge we're facing with the increase in the number of older people, there's only one way that's essential to do it. It's giving nurses a decent salary. It must pay to take up education, even when working in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1387	First, I would like to congratulate Höie on her position as head of the Health and Care Committee. This is a major challenge for the Committee over the next four years. In his speech today, Höie has mentioned one of the largest, namely the interaction reform. My impression is that when the Right is talking about health policy, it is privatisation and the private solutions that are the main focus, while the Government in the interaction reform has put the main focus on health promotion, prevention and action in the community health service – both before patients get so far as they need to be enrolled and after they can be printed out. Does Höie agree that the biggest challenge and the greatest effort we now need to put into health policy is precisely in terms of the actions described in the interaction reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1394	First: Thank you for your congratulations. I look forward to working with the representative Hansen in that committee. It's a big challenge you're facing. Not least, the interaction reform will be one of the biggest changes in the way a person thinks to organise our welfare society. In the opinion of the Right, it is also a point that such a reform is not adopted by three votes in this Chamber, but has a broad majority behind it. I also hope that the representatives of the government parties in the Committee will be willing to make changes to the reform so that one can get a wider agreement. As I said in my post, the reform represents a true vision, but it has major challenges related to the use of instruments in it. It is based on its implementation with a municipal structure that will not be able to handle the tasks that the reform foresees for municipalities. Thus, one could risk implementing a reform that offers a worse offer to the patient, and if one is not willing to change any of the reform's premises, it would involve more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1403	The centre party and government parties are committed to providing good, decentralised health services where people live. That is why the local hospitals and the interaction reform are so important. In this context, proximity, emergency functions and food supply are to be maintained and no local hospital is to be closed. Therefore, my question to the representative Bent Höie is: Does he agree that no local hospital should be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1410	Yes, this was also the policy of the Bondevik II government, and this principle was introduced by the Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen. There will be no need for fewer local hospitals. There will be a need for more local hospitals, because the interaction reform will suggest that a good part of what is going on in part of the local hospitals and the local medical centres today will take place even more closely in the vicinity of the patient. In many ways, one might say that there are two trends in the health system. One is the need for a stronger specialisation for the complex areas where a small number of operations are carried out. In that case, Norway may even be too small to offer all kinds of services. But then there is also a slight opposite development, that much of what was going on in the hospitals before, can now be sorted out by one's permanent doctor or by a local medical centre. These two developments are precisely what the interaction reform should respond to and to which the Right agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1418	We have been through an election campaign where asylum and immigration policies have been one of the main issues. Asylum seekers were made the main enemy and were almost responsible for everything that did not work in Norway. They were raked down on, the ones that are among the weakest and the most speechless. In the election campaign, the Right has also participated in the criticism that the Government has not been strict enough in asylum and immigration policy. One of the major debate themes has been the increased use of detention. To VG 24 May, the representative Höie says the following: ‘It is not illegal to apply for asylum in Norway. Therefore, it will not be possible to internalise them.» Furthermore, Bent Höie says that he ‘considers that only those asylum seekers who commit a crime should be penalised’. Can the representative Höie clarify whether the Right will support the Government's proposal for increased access to the detention of aliens who have so-called undisclosed identity, as I have understood that the Right Leader will, or is it Bent Höie's opinion in VG 24 May, as the Left, which is Right Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1435	There is no contradiction between what the Right stands for and what is stated in the Government Declaration in this area. On the contrary, in many areas it may seem that the government has used the copy machine on Right Document No. Eight proposals once they have made their new strict but fair asylum policy. It is illegal under the Foreign Affairs Act to come to Norway with an undisclosed identity if one does not have a reason for it. It is quite obvious that when so many come to Norway with an unexplained identity, they do not have a good reason for it. It's an important premise to clarify the identity. The right is clearly based on the rule of law that no one can be imprisoned or deprived of freedom without a decision based on law. Nor can it happen indefinitely. So my opinion was a proposal that all asylum seekers should be interned until the application was settled. It is not possible to implement if one adheres to international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1442	«Economic experiments», «casinoliberalism», «participating in TV billions», «performing and hoping that it will all pass away». This was the unusually precise description used by the representative Sanner on the economic policy of the Progress Party one year ago in this debate. After that, I have not registered any changes in the irresponsible economic policy of the Progress Party. Does the representative Höie believe that the Right must once again use this description of his potential partner in the autumn budget, or does he now expect them to be moderated so that, on the civil side, you can finally get central approval as builders and be able to rebuild yourself from the last four years of ruins on the bourgeois side?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1449	I understand that the Labour Party today has decided that the election campaign will continue even after the election is decided, and I want to run the same rhetoric as in the election campaign. On the right, there is more concern about looking ahead and seeing the opportunities facing Norway. Norway has enormous opportunities in the situation we are in, as a rich country in Europe, with large capital, but where our biggest challenge is to exploit those opportunities in a positive way, for example. by investing in research and development so that we provide a basis for future value creation, by investing in infrastructure so that the distance constraints we have in Norway are reduced, and by spending money in the main areas. I think it would have been more exciting if this debate were about the major challenges facing it than to continue the game from the election campaign that is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1456	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1459	In the election campaign I have met many voters: there have been small children's parents who have enjoyed finally having a kindergarten. It has been schooling that no longer has a headache when school day is over, because the school has a new ventilation system. There have been high school students who have seen that the free textbook system has become a reality, and there have been staff in the care sector who have got new colleagues. In the previous four-year period, there were almost 35,000 new annual works in the municipalities. I have not met a single elector who has said that these persons are redundant, on the contrary, the requirements have been that we need more to expand the offers further. That is why the voters gave the red-green government renewed confidence. The voters see that we still have many challenges ahead of us that we have to solve together. The fact that we pay for welfare goods through the tax haven and through it gives everyone, no matter how much they earn or what they own, the same access to welfare schemes, has made Norway the world's best country to live in. Well-being costs, and then we have to spend money on expanding welfare services rather than giving tax relief to those who have the most of them. Municipalities and county councils have the overall responsibility for most welfare services, and it is therefore necessary that they have the means to solve important welfare tasks for their citizens. The municipalities were given a big boost during the previous four-year period — and that was absolutely necessary. The goal of full child care coverage has been achieved, and the job of providing adequate care places for those who need it has begun. This job will continue, while at the same time strengthening school and child protection through continued strong growth in the local economy. A good public sector is a prerequisite for smoothing out and a level playing field for all. It is therefore important that we have a public sector that is capable of renewing and transforming, in order to address the challenges that are coming. The government has presented the interaction reform aimed at ensuring that all parts of the healthcare system are organised according to the patient’s needs, while at the same time putting much more effort into preventing people from becoming ill. Municipalities therefore need to step up their efforts to prevent disease. At the same time, municipalities can take over some of the tasks that specialist health services are responsible for today. For many municipalities, it may be right for even more tasks to be solved jointly, and therefore the political platform of the Government is committed to investigating the arrangement with joint municipalities. The municipalities that they consider to be able to offer their inhabitants better if they join forces will be able to recover the actual costs of the merger process from the State. I hope that this can help more local politicians to assess closer cooperation. Over the next 25 years, the number of people over 67 will double, from around 600,000 to 1.2 million. It is fundamentally positive that people in Norway live longer. It's important to say, because many people present this as a big problem. It's not. It gives us great opportunities, but it also gives us some challenges. For even Norwegian women, thanks to, among others, Good maternity schemes, giving birth to more children than they do in most other countries we can compare with, will face major challenges to get many to work in the health and care sector. Working life must have room for everyone, and it is particularly important that we manage to attract immigrants, also because they have skills that we, among other things, have. will be needed in the care sector. Controlling the Norwegian language is an important prerequisite for participation in the labour market. The objective of the policy platform for the majority government to expand and strengthen the Norwegian training system will allow more people to work. A place in the world of work is the best way to become an integral part of Norwegian society. Norwegian society can't afford to let go of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1482	In November, the International Energy Agency produced a report on world energy supply and saw it together with the climate challenges. The headline in some newspapers was: The world needs to reduce its fossil energy consumption – it says the International Energy Agency. But if one goes in and sees, breaks down the statistics, one sees that yes, the coal consumption in the world has to down by 20 pst. the next 10 years, but the gas consumption will actually increase by 20 pst, even to meet the 2 degree target of the UN. The oil consumption is going to be 5 pst. And then one is going to have 100 pst. increase in renewable energy and 100 pst. increase in nuclear power. That is what needs to be done if a boat is to cut global CO2 emissions and make the energy supply interconnect. This shows that Norway will, and must, play an important role as an energy nation in the future. We must bet on both oil and gas and on renewable energy. The issue in this case is not what is needed, but what kind of policy should be pursued. The government has been unclear, not in its headlines, but in its execution. In 2005, a very offensive, but one did not find solutions that worked. It is not a quality criterion to boast about how much money you have spent on renewable energy. It is a quality criterion to show what you have done, and there is very little in renewable power generation. However, I hope that this four-year period will be different. The Progress Party will be involved and contribute to this. We want an offensive oil policy to maintain the activity. Then we don't do as we did in the previous period: delaying allocations in predefined areas time and time again, delaying the 20th round for one year, cutting petroleum-related research. There we hope that the Government is serious, and that they can refer to it also by having fixed allocations, preferably in date range, which makes it predictable for the industry. One must also strengthen petroleum-related research. The government says it should have attractive exploration areas for oil and gas. But then we also have to define what's attractive and who's attractive. Is it attractive for the industry to talk about here – because the industry doesn't feel that way – or is it attractive for an oil and energy minister who says in Technical Weekly that the reason why the government went to Jan Mayen to look for oil and gas is that it's the most convenient, there's the least conflict? So it's attractive for the government, but not for the industry. I hope that the attractiveness in the future will be directed towards the industry. Then I register that the Soria Moria Declaration II says that oil and gas operations should not be opened in Lofoten and the Westphalia during this majority period. It is in a way just to identify the facts – it would not be possible to do so either. On the other hand, what is gratifying is that one states that in 2010 one should adopt a coherent Lofoten and the West Pole. That's where the door opens for further activity. There I trust that the Workers' Party will do what is best for the nation and best for the industry. So I also hope that the Government will provide an overall energy message during this period. In Soria Moria II, it is announced that there will be a major communication on renewable energy policy. I'm sorry I don't get very impressed, because it also made the government come forward in the last period. It was on four sides. Virtually all the contents were scrapped by the same government that submitted it. I hope we can now raise our eyes and get the whole thing out, get a policy where the government is trying to make a deal with as much as possible in the opposition, so that we get an energy policy that lasts more than one year at a time, and that can usually last across sitting governments. Then we have to look at all aspects of energy policy in the context, not just renewable energy, but one has to look at the framework conditions for gas, renewable energy, for network policy, for government tasks, for tax policy, etc. Let me first praise the Government for finally agreeing with itself and getting an agreement on green certificates with Sweden. The premises at the bottom are very good – technology neutrality. We know that was a bend for SV to swallow. They did it at the end, and then I think we can actually get this investment going in 2012, which should have started in 2006. Then it's important to have a credible transitional arrangement. It seems that the Government has facilitated in most areas, but one must not forget the promise that one gave to small power plants builders who began to invest in 2004. Much of the investment in renewable energy The government can boast of the last four years, has happened because the small-scale industry prided itself on the Government's promise to include them in a green certificate market. You can't break that promise. Then I find that the web proposal from in our little solution within the web policy. It must be more effective and show that one provides the State with a means of making its investment and ensures that the income framework for the network companies is predictable. One must avoid five to six years' waiting time in order to deal with concession requests for small-scale power plants and in so far as on other networks, and then one must ensure that it is at least as profitable to invest in renewable energy as it is to invest in petroleum. It's not today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1506	Mobility, good communication, security and efficient transport are fundamental needs of human everyday life. The government still boasts that she spends much more money on transportation than the previous government. Well, I'm happy for every penny that goes to transportation, but it would probably be missing if not budget increases at a time when the government has had completely different spaces of action than any other government. At the same time, we know that the cost increase is over 30 p.m. the last four years. We also know that the Ministry of Transport’s relative share of the State budget has decreased in the period. The result is self-evident. Therefore, efforts must be intensified strongly in the coming times, as the Christian People's Party has proposed, among other things. in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. Unfortunately, the government still keeps the door closed for alternative forms of funding. We still see a widespread allergy to Public Private Cooperation and various forms of project funding. It's a little forward-looking. The government doesn't respond to the challenges we're going to face with clusters of expansion and unincorporated financing. The Christian People's Party will ensure that funding becomes more long-term and far-sighted, while at the same time increasing the rate of investment on the road and the track. We do not get an efficient and safe transport and service if we do not also provide for soft road users such as walking and cycling – yes, not to talk about all children and young people travelling on the road. Therefore, a long number of times and bike paths are needed. This is particularly important in trafficked urban areas with children and young people. I want to widen political relations in Stortinget. It is absolutely necessary that we resume the great backlog of this sector. I would therefore like to challenge the Government to cooperate constructively with the opposition and hope for a good cooperation on a safer, safer and more efficient transport system in this country. Another area I also hope the Government will listen to the opposition on is the fight against poverty. According to the Newspaper, the Velferdsalian slaughtered the poverty pact in the Soria Moria II declaration. The well-being alliance, which represents 27 organisations, among others. poor, think the Government does not present measures that will lift many out of poverty. ‘The only instrument that had really been monneted would have been to increase social assistance rates. But they don't say anything about it in the statement," says Dag Westerheim of the Velferd Alliance. The Christian People's Party does not think it is easy to eliminate poverty in Norway. But we can do more. The size can introduce new measures that will provide new opportunities and a better life for many of those who wear the most today. An important new approach proposed by the Christian People's Party is to introduce a minimum state standard for social assistance. There are large differences in the help provided by municipalities. This action is very important in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1531	First, I would like to congratulate the representative, Mr Hareide, as head of the Transport and Communications Committee in Stortinget. It is noted that the former Minister for the Environment has now become a transport policy, since he used much of his article on that very topic. I want to go back to what the former Environment Minister was concerned about, and for which I also record that the Christian People's Party still has a strong commitment, and that is the fight to solve the climate problems. Then the situation is that we have a government that shares the same commitment as the Christian People's Party. On Thursday, Norway was applauded in Bangkok for the new commitment we show, among other things. for the enhanced climate objectives. Therefore, I wonder if the representative Hareide can explain to me why the Christian People's Party is still turning its back on the sitting government and is seeking cooperation with the other right parties in Stortinget. It must be natural to seek greater cooperation with the sitting government both in the fight against poverty, in the fight to solve climate problems and in most other areas where the Christian People's Party has a strong commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1540	Thank you for the congratulations of the representative Gjul. Now it's not the formal choice taking yet, but I still take it as good congratulations. It is precisely in this area that we have sought cooperation with the Government. We have achieved a very good climate agreement that has made it possible for us to raise the ambitions of what is going on in the climate. So I thought that just when it comes to climate, we have a good example of the Christian People's Party cooperating in the directions that give us the most impact. And that's what we've done when it comes to climate. Since it was mentioned that I am now renting a job that goes on a journey, I would say that just transport is a very important environmental area. It applies to public transport, but I also feel that when we listen to what the environmental movement says in this area, they are also now very concerned that we should have more environmentally friendly cars and buses to bring down our emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1548	Like the previous replicator, I would also like to congratulate Knut Arild Hareide on the leadership, and I look forward to sitting on the same committee and having him as leader. I think that's a good idea, and I think we can get a good cooperation. We have had a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party in the present period, but now that a real climate issue in focus, I believe that the Christian People's Party can help us to actually get more – not least with the background of the position Hareide has had as Minister of Environmental Protection. So my challenge is more limited if the representative wants to participate in some of the actions I actually propose to reduce car traffic, for example. Raising time tax, reducing the number of parking spaces – things in central areas that can allow us to move transport from road to collective solutions – and whether the representative Hareide is satisfied with what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration when it relates to the reward scheme, when it is related to lynchage, when it concerns important things that can put Norway in the front line of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1553	I look forward to working with the representative of Langeland. I also see that the representative has a slogan on the jacket today saying yes to the lightning train. That's what I'm willing to sign. It is just an important matter for the next four years, and I am also willing to look at new measures as an alcohol duty. I think it might be a wise way to get a more environmentally friendly transport policy. When we also look at the experience from Sweden, I think we should look at this. But I'm not willing to say no to the road. For our country has a difference, and we need road in both central and district Norway. I also feel that the environmental movement is thinking about this. They are not so concerned about saying no to roads as they are concerned about what is going on on the roads being environmentally friendly. So I used my post to invite you to cooperate, and I also thank Langeland for wanting such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1558	I want to challenge the representative in an area where the Central Party and the Christian People's Party share some common values, namely family policy. Politics is about priority, and in the Soria Moria statement we have said that we want to target the cash support to those who choose to be at home with their children, which should be in line with the family values that the Christian People's Party emphasises. At the same time, we have said that we want to secure more fathers' autonomous income rights for the feather quota. This is a form of equality that belongs to modern family policy. Is the representative of Hareide in agreement with this, and is concerned about gender equality in family policy, such as the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1563	Yes, I can confirm that. We are occupied with a modern family policy that involves more equality. But what I don't agree with the representative is exactly the grip that is taken in relation to cash support, which means that two-year-olds don't get the chance to be home using cash support. What happens now, that support only applies to one-year-olds, I disagree. It helps to limit the freedom of choice for families with children, and I think I'm going in the wrong direction. Cash support has been a phenomenal well-being arrangement, and I think it is a paradox that a government that is talking about building up welfare arrangements, in the Soria Moria Declaration, is building up a successful welfare system that the cash support is. So in that area, I disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1568	I just want to follow up a little further on what's going on together. I think it's very good that the representative Hareide and the Christian People's Party so clearly signal that you want a cooperation closer to the red-green government, and it's also obvious that it's natural, because we have a lot of common things that we're fighting for. It concerns assistance, the environment, the fight for better public transport, and gender equality. Therefore, I wonder if it is not time for the Christian People's Party to signal that they want to break free from the right, and that Siv Jensen's ambitions to assemble the bourgeois block are not becoming a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1573	It's nothing new that the Christian People's Party wants to cooperate. We want to cooperate with all the parties on Stortinget, and we have done so in the four years that have passed. We have collaborated with the red-green parties in the cases where we have achieved a result. We have cooperated with the Right and with the Progress Party and the Left in the matters where we feel that we can get support for our policy. It's going to be our policy too in the future. We're going to be illustrating ourselves as a center party, and we're going to cooperate with the parties that we're experiencing are close within the various subjects. And we've been doing that for the last four years, and we're going to do that for the next four years. We're a cooperation party. We're in the center, and then it's clear that we want to strengthen the center, and especially with those parts that are close to us there, both the Left and the Center. And then the Center Party has chosen to go into government with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and that obviously gives some leadership that there won't be a collective center in all things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1583	Norway may have made the world's best bottom plan to make the best of us. We can be proud of the wise decisions the generations before we have taken, so that my generation can grow up in a society with many opportunities to succeed. Still tougher it is for those who do not experience success in their own lives, and fall out of the community. Combating poverty is about having a living income. It's also about getting tools to master the life you've been given. Many of us are lucky and grow up with resource people around us, people who can show us how to make good choices for ourselves. The everyday life of many children and young people is about living in social problems of addiction, violence and conflict. It is easy to take over the poverty of the last generation and make it its own. Adult children of people who are struggling with drug problems, we can roughly divide into three. You have those that take more or less distance from the whole thing. You have those who become drug addicts, and then you have the last, those who marry a drug addict. It says something about how difficult it can be to reverse their own thinking patterns, which means that many people make poor choices by themselves. I don't think it's random that a woman who meets at a crisis centre for the third time to seek protection from another man, talks about violence and fear. There's a wall of shame around this. We have to break the wall of shame and lower the threshold to ask for help. Strengthening drug care can be a matter not only of helping the drug user, but also of helping the family that is standing around. In this way, we can give new generations the opportunity to break the generational poverty and make good choices for themselves. Today, many drug users are met with police and criminal law. Sick people need treatment and not a prison. We must dare to ask the difficult questions in this debate. Principles are no more important than humans, and poor people deserve better than being met with well-being moralism. Right, Kristin Clement says that the benefits of those who fall outside are too good and contribute to the fact that many do not participate in the labour market. You have to be away from the people you're dealing with, to get to this. Is it this modest prescription representative Nicolai Astrup talking about when he points out that the Right has a social policy that works? It's easy to see that it's wrong when over 90,000 people with different disabilities want to contribute their great resources, but do not get the same opportunities as the rest of us. The solution for all of these is not to cut into the social security, but to lower the participation threshold. In the Labour Party's work on the Labour and Social Committee, we will listen to all those who are committed to a Norway where more people are given room in the community. But I can already state that the policy on the right-hand side will lead to privatisation, cut the daily allowance and weakening the trade unions – and thus help those with low wages to get less time off – has expired. Our policy is to help more people organise and gain strong professional rights, combat unemployment and create a more inclusive working life where more people are given the opportunity to contribute. There's no reason to scramble for what we've done to create a more inclusive society. Many feel invisible in their own society. An inclusion policy for the next few years must be about listening to those who do not have a strong voice in the societal debate. By refurbishment of Nav, child protection, school health, drug care and criminal care, we can reach those who feel invisible and forgotten. It's these people we're going to invite in to build a stronger and safer society for all of us. We don't want to fight all poverty in four years, but with a red-green majority, we get to take important steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1600	I noted that the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Helga Pedersen, in the change of line with Erna Solberg made it clear that the Government has now presented its new platform, the main slogan of which is that everyone should join. The Prime Minister was also clear in his speech that the most important job in the future is work for everyone, who is also a job no. 1 for the Government. It's interesting to take a little look back at what the government really had downgraded as its policy in Soria Moria I. Especially for those who are furthest away from the labour market, those who are far from being well-being – then I am talking about the disabled – the Government wrote that more action should be put in place to integrate people who otherwise fell outside the ordinary working life, and that there should be good funding arrangements to maintain permanent job creation. So what does the Soria Moria II government write, which we are discussing today? At my discretion, we have moderated significantly. A high level of action places, adapted to the labour market situation, is required. Increased efforts should be made to facilitate work in the ordinary and sheltered sectors through an employment strategy for people with disabilities. Does this mean that in a short time we can expect an action plan to bring disabled people into the labour market? The opposition used large parts of the previous period to call for such an action plan. It would have been very affordable if the government had now followed up. But there's little evidence. Another great slogan that the Government has also used is that you should have fewer social security and more in work. I then record that at the end of September this year, according to the figures presented by the management companies, there are 10,000 more disabled people in employment queues than was the case in September 2008. In addition, the proportion of people with disabilities in working life remains unchanged. We know that there are 92,000 people with disabilities who want to enter the workplace. In addition, we record that we have received over 21,000 new workers after the government took over Stoltenberg four years ago. All of this testifies to the fact that there is a long way between word and action. It's great that the government uses fine words and has great ambitions, but we don't see much of the concrete actions. For me, it reminds a lot of people that they have chosen a rhetorical language, but not abilities to follow up in practice. It's also interesting to note what the Evening Post wrote on October 6th this year, followed up on October 7th. There is evidence that nearly one and a half of those who are ill are people with mental disorders. If you go back ten years in time, until 1999, it turns out that only 40 pst. The young people received an offer for reintroduction before they were disapproved. Overall, it was just 15.4 pst. and we see the report that the Institute of Public Health has now presented, it turns out that the figures are similar. I think that's worrying, and I wish the government had been much clearer and had had much clearer ambitions in this area. What's needed is to get more measures in the number of places to re-enter and organise places to re-enter, including those with mental health problems. Because, as stated in the Evening Post on the 7th, it is quoted from the report: ‘The greater willingness to try to keep people with mental disorders in work will therefore reduce some of these consequences’. The most important part of success in this work is having good places of action, and in this area, unfortunately, the Government has neglected. In addition, I note that a pension reform is now being introduced that will increase the pressure on disability, and the fight against poverty is in the new declaration reduced to just two lines. In addition, we record that a number of people struggle daily to get help through the Nav system and go for several months without being followed up, without getting their money or the follow-up measures they require. It also means that we need to be much more offensive when it comes to getting the Nav reform on the rails. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber at the seats of the representatives, proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1615	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1618	As a theoretical concept, the Norwegian model can sometimes be difficult. It has received criticism from a scientific team to be a little firm and indefinable. Nevertheless, I believe that most people in Norway have a sense of what the Norwegian model implies. In many ways there is a kind of balance between different principles: freedom and governance, the ability to create and invest while sharing, an open, dynamic market economy combined with security, both private and public, to ensure that no one falls outside. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed the economic excellence of the Norwegian model. I think he's right in many ways, as long as you remember that it's not the Labour Party or the Government that creates all the welfare and wealth in Norway, but the Norwegian people – men and women who every day contribute with effort, talent, creativity, whether it's in our industry or in our schools or in our hospitals. The economic strength of the Norwegian model is that we have given people the opportunity to bet and succeed. Nevertheless, I think the Norwegian model also means something more. In Norway, a society with high levels of trust between peoples, a society in which we place participation, inclusion and joint efforts high, a society in which we take responsibility together both within and outside the public sector for many of those who fail. I think we have reason to be proud of what we have done in Norway, but not satisfied. For while wealth growth for ordinary people has exploded and been formidable over the last decades, while access to consumer goods has increased, while market choice has increased for the vast majority, there are also more and more people outside. The Norwegian model is delicious. More and more falls outside. Last year 83 new workers were registered every day. The number of people who fall out of work is increasing with a frightening strength, and it is happening independently of the economic cycle. Even in good times, the number of miscarriages is increasing. Of course, many in a society like ours are going to have social security. They can't work. But it's also no secret that many people who want to contribute and who can contribute to the world of work don't get the chance. The worst part is that more and more young people are falling out. Some have never even entered the labour market. Young men are, for example, the most overrepresented social assistance group in social assistance statistics. Many of them have first been failed by the school system, and then they are dumped into a massive system of how many feel that demands for effort, trust, respect are replaced by often passivating transfers and resignation. There may be nothing less valuable than a system where you think the job is done only as much as possible get a monthly check in the post office. Such a client community is the true opposite of a real welfare society. The Norwegian model is at risk of becoming a 3⁄4-society, where the vast majority is inside, while an increasing minority is outside, and where recruitment to the last quarter is increasing and increasing. It's an economic problem. It is tempting to quote former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland’s words about ‘an unplayed bomb under the welfare state’. But it may also be a moral problem first and foremost. Because when more and more people fall outside, we also weaken our community. It's about a basic propriety in a society that's not only linked to the individual as an employee or a contributor to the common fund, but to the individual's dignity as a human being, a propriety that's about the quality of a society not only being measured by how well many have it, but by what you do for the few. Just because poverty in an affluent society is different from that in a poor country, it can also be more difficult to discover and deal with. To put it simply, it is not that politicians can simply buy themselves out of poverty and exclusion. In many cases, poor material conditions are primarily a symptom, not a cause. Nor do we have a lack of large systems in Norway. Often, systems can be perceived as too large, too massive, in contact with people who can often feel small. But the outside world in Norway is no longer about the large masses living on the edge of the plunge, but about the fact that a few, but more and more, are falling into the cracks of our welfare system. The government promised after previous elections to eliminate poverty. You couldn't. But there's nothing wrong with having high ambitions. What is wrong is when the political focus is not equally strong. During the election campaign, we have heard a lot about those who have the most. We have heard a lot about cohesion and that the richest must contribute. We have heard a lot about those inside, who have enough money, and who are doing well. After the financial crisis, maybe the sound of the champagne corks that are spreading has become weaker, but no one can say with their hands on the heart that everyone is there. In fact, there are more and more people who are not allowed to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1640	The harvest’s decision to grow was an important choice of values. It was a choice of social orientation with distinct alternatives – on the one hand, the red-green parties, which led to elections to continue and strengthen Norway as a community-based society, equal rights and opportunities for all, the fight against poverty and the fight for a more inclusive working life, on the other hand, the citizens, who went to elections in a completely different direction: less community, more privatisation, the weakening of public welfare assets – in the long run a colder society with greater differences. Fortunately, as we know, the voters chose the first one. And this election shows that the social-democratic model of society is very uproaring. The voters do not want a weakening, but a strengthening of that model of society, and therefore gave us four new years with a red-green government fighting for everyone to join in. The fact that everyone has to come with us is not obvious, even in Norway. It is also a clear picture of this choice. We risked waking up on 15 September to a blue majority who would tear down much of the labour movement built up through history, tearing down much of what characterizes Norway, what many take for granted, which means that Norway is managed year after year by the UN to the world's best country to live in, for example. The fact that we are one of the world's most equal countries. The fact that we have come so far with equality in Norway, and that we can travel around the world and have respect for equality statistics, has not come of our own. The labour movement and the women's movement have always been at the forefront of the gender equality struggle. We have formalized women's social and economic rights through political will and ability to act. We're at the level of equality. For the last four years, the red-green government has led the equality struggle even further. We're gonna be proud of that. We are, but we are not satisfied, because we want to go on. On the other hand, gender determines pay. Women work most involuntary part-time. There are most men in power. Women take most of the housework and leave. We have more games to take. That's why the government also needed to re-trust, so that we can take the force of equality that is needed. It's our community project, and it doesn't come of itself. This election also showed us very well that we have political forces that want to tear down what we've built up if they get the power to do it. We risked waking up on September 15 to a blue majority that would reverse the progress we've been making in the field of equality over the last four years, and also back to Gross Time. We risked waking up to a strong progress party that would abolish the gender equality law, take away from homosexuals their rights, put down the gender equality agency, which was opposed to gender quotas, which was against making the Women's Convention into Norwegian law, which would increase cash support, and which has decided in its party programmes that gender equality in Norway is complete. We know that the truth and the reality are a completely different one. The selectors also viewed the Progress Party. Especially female voters escaped from the party, and fortunately we did not wake up on September 15 to a blue majority that would liquidate the entire equality machine. Fortunately, we woke up on 15 September to a still red-green majority who sees that we need a force for equality, and who are just ready to take it. Gro said the time she fought through the measures that we enjoy today, that it was heavy thanks. She got criticism, she got countermeasures, but she did, because -- as she said -- fighting out women's rights was the only right thing. “I just had to resist the countermeasures and move on,” said Gro. I am glad that the voters did not find themselves in the political forces that want to tear down what Gro has fought, but that they clearly chose four new years with a government that will continue in the fight for a more equal society and complete the Gross project, and that wants everyone to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1653	Neither Soria Moria II nor the census gave some new answers to the challenges we have here in the country, and especially not in family policy. The policy pursued by the Stoltenberg government has in many ways been in the wrong direction, especially with regard to family investment. The country has been affected by the financial crisis in the last year and by all its uncertainties and concerns. Last year we got both bank packages and packages for business. We got in series and rows of different packages. But the families, the ones who have noticed it the most on the body, and the ones who were hit the hardest, got no package. Nor did the government mention the family in one single word on Friday. For the Progress Party, an investment in the future is an investment in the family. A good family policy is important for the Progress Party, and it is incredibly important for the whole welfare state. For the Advancement Party, the family is a natural, valuable and fundamental element that constitutes an important framework for the growth and future of children. In recent years today’s government has allowed the public to take over more and more tasks instead of strengthening the family position. This is the difference between the family policies of the Red-Green Party and the Advance Party. Today’s government’s high taxes and taxes result in both parents usually having to work hard to maintain the standard of living. Community before tax relief, they went red-green around and said in the election campaign. I would say that this government is closing its eyes to who it is that is the community. These are families, especially small children’s families, who notice the high tax pressure, tax pressure, increased tolls or rush-time charges. The Progress Party believes that families must be allowed to retain more of their income to a far greater extent than today and to adapt and organise their everyday lives according to the needs of each family. That's not the case today, but that's what's bet on the family, and that's what's bet on the future. I would like to stand here today and boast to the Government that I still have a focus on the cash support, but I can't do it. When we know that the government's bet on the small children's families is to cut the cash support for two-year-olds, it's not much to boast about. The next one is that they should enter special conditions for those receiving cash support. This is an over-test and denial of freedom of choice, which is the hallmark of this government. I sometimes wonder what it is about this government and the lack of faith that each family can choose and even set up their own everyday life. In the Common Era, the Government places emphasis on ensuring full child-care coverage and developing the quality of kindergarten. In Soria Moria II, one adds up to a stepping-up plan for private kindergartens of five years. This is too passive. We need private kindergartens, and equality between private and public kindergartens was a prerequisite for the childcare arrangement. This should have been in place yesterday. I have to say that I look forward to treating St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009 on quality in kindergarten. Kindergarten quality does not always mean more professionals. The fact that individual children are seen gives them the care they need, and not least the diversity of kindergartens and that parents themselves can be allowed to choose the kindergarten that is best for their child, is important for the Advancement Party. I've also been so lucky for the last four years to be a member of the Justice Committee. The work with the police, the courts and the criminal services has shown me that we are inside a circle that is very difficult to break, but that has to be broken. Here comes prevention. If we are to succeed in prevention, each individual must have good growth conditions, safe family relationships and, above all, healthy leisure activities. That's why I think these disciplines, such as family and culture and also justice, can alternate and play on a team. Although I have said this before that it is the right and duty of parents to raise their children, it is now the case that there are people who need extra help. It is often the weakest of the weakest who need that help, and then we need an auxiliaries that are fully capable of doing this work. We have recently read about tragic events where children become caste balls in the system and have to change family several times. None of us can imagine how this must be experienced. Strengthening child protection, strengthening at home for those in need of help, and not least a system of supervision that can ensure that child protection does the job they are assigned to do, are incredibly important, but I am afraid that the free resources that the Government provides to the municipalities are not the right way to go. Here I think it needs to be ear-marked. Finally, investing in the family is one of the most important tasks that politicians have. Investing in the family is investing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1687	Norwegian traders received strong applause when they presented the increased climate targets in Norway’s new government statement during the climate negotiations in Bangkok on Thursday. Several have said that the new Norwegian target of 40 pst. emissions reductions by 2020 will increase the pressure on other countries in the negotiations for an agreement on climate change in Copenhagen in December. Together with efforts at rainforest and CO2 treatment, guidelines for the pension fund and the initiative for climate adaptation, this has placed Norway as a significant country in the climate negotiations. This shows that it is important who sits with government power, and that it is possible to get to important things sail if you are a small country. At the same time, it is worrying that every five Nordics do not believe that climate change is man-made. It shows a recent survey carried out for the Nordic insurance industry. Norway has twice as many climate skeptics as our closest neighbours. Former Prime Minister of Sweden, Göran Persson, blamed for this on the Progress Party, and stated to Dagbladet on 6 October: ‘This is the effect of a large political party that Frp has built the opinion around this.’ Persson asked the following serious questions: If in a small country such as Norway, there are problems with accessing knowledge, how should we expect to reach people in China and India? This shows the importance of the kind of debate that politicians hold in their own country. It is also important that we show in action that we are serious about what we say. The climate agreement and the Regeninga platform provide a good basis. However, we need to have more measures in place in the future and show that it is possible to combine a high level of well-being with low emissions. In the SV we also believe that it is a prerequisite for well-being that we get emissions down. Norwegian jobs and businesses depend on us changing in time. The longer we wait, the more expensive it becomes to solve the problem. In addition, this is about justice and solidarity. The hardest hit have contributed at least to the climate problem. It's about the poorest in the world, and it's about those who are not yet born. We have a responsibility to them too. An important task for Norway in the future at the international level will also be to promote system changes that ensure the consideration of people and the environment rather than short-term profit to a few. In the government platform, we say that we should work towards the introduction of new global sources of funding that can contribute to the redistribution and strengthening of global common resources, for example. through air taxes, carbon taxes, taxes on arms trade and taxes on foreign exchange transactions. In addition, we need to work towards better control of financial flows, combating tax havens and illegal international money transactions. We're also going to work for increased food security in the world and recognition of the right to produce food for our own people. These are important questions and big questions. The new government platform will continue to expand the welfare state of Norway. The welfare state is the most important instrument we have for redistribution, for the security of the population and for each individual's ability to realise its potential. Common free arenas for participation, redistribution and public schemes that embrace all are essential to ensure this and to ensure solidarity between citizens of society. SV will work systematically to reduce social differences, including pay differentials between women and men. We're going to be working on combating poverty and exclusion. I was in a hurry when I heard the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, in her reply to the Prime Minister. ‘Shall the welfare state continue to grow and eze out’, she asked — yes, she almost spit it out. Her colleague, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, follows up today's Evening Post with a frontal attack on the welfare state. It will be exciting now to see how the Progress Party is positioned forward, and how this affects the Right. We take more than the debate on the future of the welfare state. What does Siv Jensen think should not be given priority? Is there any number of sick homes she thinks when she talks about the welfare state that's escalating with the new government platform? Is there more teachers, that we ensure that there are fewer students per. teach through a new minimum standard, she is against? Is this about better basic staffing in the care of the elderly? What does the party leader really think? She is thus invited to put it into practice, and I hope we can get some proper debates on what is really the difference in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1723	The President would point out that ‘spouting’ is not a parliamentary term to be used in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1726	I'm not going to interfere in the debate on frontal attacks on the welfare state, but I think one of the biggest frontal attacks on the welfare state is the lack of interest in talking about how values are created. There has been very little talk about here today. Economic growth and increased value creation are crucial for the future of the welfare society. We still need to create new jobs in business, and, not least, we need to make sure that the existing ones have good conditions. Most jobs are available in small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, the Right will have a tax policy that facilitates business start-ups and small business owners. It is therefore necessary to reduce the form field and legislation and to focus on innovation and research — which has not been sufficiently achieved in the last four years. We need the jobs of the future. The individual must then be given conditions that make them dry and will bet. The community has to tell us that it's going to pay off, and that it's allowed to succeed – because it's for our common good. Significant in this respect is the wording on the level of taxation contained in the Soria Moria II declaration. They say that the tax level should be the same. A good news? Nope. Most owners of the country's businesses now know from painful experience what this formulation means. This means that the tax on operating resources in the workplace should be increased. The tax on owners is being increased, and jobs are becoming more uncertain. Further operations and investment are becoming more difficult. With a government that increased the taxes on ownership of jobs in good times, what can we expect in more times? It was a government that in good times increased the burden on Norwegian value creation by DKK 10 billion annually, most recently with a significant increase in the tax on ownership in the crisis year 2009. Then I think it gets worse when the room for action – as both Stoltenberg and others now say – gets more narrow. The rhetoric from the election campaign against the value creations and business was massive. It was actually so heavy that many people came and said we'd like to pay more taxes. But what they wanted was, can't we at least just get a recognition that what we do with value creation is important to society? Well, we're going to participate together and we're going to join together. I think maybe the most stigmatizing and debilitating message in the election campaign was just this, that those who do business are not participating in the so-called fissure layer. I see from the Soria Moria II statement that state ownership is no longer such a prominent issue. It's understandable, the handling has been miserable for the four years that lie behind us. I hope you have learned from the worst taboos and stay away from experiments you have neither the capacity nor the competence to handle. We want from the right to reduce the total state ownership. We want a broad and strong private ownership and believe it is the best, but in some cases we can have state ownership that can then be justified by national considerations, such as: head office functions. But the important thing about that ownership is that it's predictable, it's getting smaller, and it's being professionally implemented. In this area, there is a significant potential for improvement. Establishing and operating businesses must be made easier. It has to do with access to capital, so taxes are important. Therefore, it is important for generational changes to remove the inheritance tax. The right has now repeatedly masturbated the government to speed up the simplification of the share law and get speed on the work of removing the audit obligation. It's going to be very small. It has come no further than to the conversation stage. I hope something will happen soon, for the small and medium-sized enterprises that are to be set up or operating need this. Then there's a good news, believe it or not, in the Soria Moria II statement. It says that one wants to have increased ownership based on the fact that the companies can be owned by the employees. That's excellent. It was proposed by the Right and the rest of the opposition during the previous period. If there's anything in this, we're ready – not to talk about this too – to repeat our Document No. Eight proposals pretty fast. I hope then that the government parties will follow the Soria Moria declaration and vote in favour, contrary to what they did last spring, when they were opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1743	Several have already said that the big choice we now have behind us has been a very clear choice of value and a choice of social direction. What the voters saw was that they had a government that was very safe on what we can call the center/left tradition in Norway. At the same time, they saw a clear recording of a right-hand option that would be more blue than ever in Norway's modern history. The government and the Labour Party won the election and retained the majority. But at the same time, we see very clearly that the right hand parts have also strengthened. Center is weakened. Norwegian policies are therefore clearly polarised. I think this is going to look like the magnification period we're now going to go into. Looking around Europe, including in our neighbouring countries, we see that the idea that society should be based on community and justice is under pressure. In several countries, policy options have become less clear. In our country, the situation is different. Here, too, there is the pressure for large tax cuts, the commercialisation of welfare systems and the weakening of professional rights, but we have a government and a majority in this Chamber, given by the voters, who are proud and clearly opposed to this pressure. This is the main result of the decision-making process. Defending the basics of a good society, the Norwegian model that includes everyone, is the task of this majority. That's a grand task. In 2009, Norway is more than ever a society of opportunities. The freedom and the ability of the individual to determine for himself his own life has never been better. But the challenges are now, as always, many and large. We say they have to be solved for the sake of the community, but we also have to go to this task with the necessary humility and the ability to exercise social criticism. So you can ask yourself at the beginning of this ageing period: what is the alternative of the right hand parts? What would be the common denominator of policy if the Right and Advance Party had the opportunity to pursue an active policy in Norway? The political philosophy of the right is that significantly lower incomes to the community provide better and more services, that this makes it easier and better for the individual human being, and that that is what makes the individual human being freer. Now there is not one – not one – example that this policy has produced such a result anywhere in any country in the world. This rhetoric conceals that individual people themselves have to pay much more for the services that are currently free in Norway or that have limited excesses. You have to ask yourself why the leaders of the right-wing parties in this room do not encourage their municipal government representatives all over the country to send back to the state treasury the tens of billions that the red-green government has granted to the municipalities. After all, they opted for this not to be necessary and not needed in politics. On the other hand, criticism from the right is heard as a criticism that there is too little red-green policy. More use of the community's money is still being demanded, we've already heard it here today. But this is money that the right-hand side doesn't have. The right has repeatedly declared itself to be the guarantor of a use of money that is at least not above the line that our government has. But the taxes have to be cut radically, we have heard – even today. It only produces one result: poorer welfare schemes for most people. It means more pressure on the individual and less – no more – individual freedom. This is the great inconsistency of the right and political paradox. Time is too long to ask for this political logic to be explained and documented here in the staging room. But after all, this is about the culture of our society, and that we, who are now elected to the Grand Duchy, are able to jointly bear the considerable responsibility of protecting the humanistic values and goals of our society so far beset by, as it may be the richest country in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1765	This year's election campaign has been a special campaign in many ways. For us who have been engaged in immigration and integration policies, it has been very special. We have marked a change of mood in the political rhetoric, not least from the largest government party. We have experienced what I will almost call a competition to be heard as the Progress Party in the political rhetoric. We also see in the wording of the Government Declaration that we want to transform parts of immigration and integration policies. There's been a series of games. In particular, I think we remember the performance of the representative Jan Bøhler and municipal politician Rune Gerhardsen, who almost launched closed asylum receptions according to the model of the Progress Party. Now it turns out, of course, that when it came to the government statement, it was something quite different it really contained. In the political rhetoric, then, there can be no doubt that SV has suffered a sinister defeat. When the Labour Party is so clear and clearly saying that it wants to tighten up asylum policy, and when it does so with arguments that are confusingly similar to those used by the Progress Party, there can be no doubt that SV has suffered a complete defeat here. But then rhetoric has to be translated into politics, and here's the big problem with the government statement. It's very little concrete. The points dealing with immigration policy, asylum policy and integration policy use wording such as ‘extend the scheme’, ‘extend the use of’, ‘continuing the work on’, ‘strengthen’, ‘intensity’, ‘decreasing a public sample’, etc. - So very little concrete. There is no doubt that, in those areas where concrete action is actually taken, there are measures that have been partially launched in the past. There are measures that the Progress Party has actually launched, and we have also been skin-stained and given various characteristics in a negative sense once we have made these concrete proposals. I'll give you some examples. There is a wording in today's government statement to introduce a general requirement for four years' work and/or training as a condition for family establishment, i.e. a general requirement that applies to all. Many people would say that it is similar to a family immigration regulatory measure that has certain similarities with the long proposed Progress Party, with a 24-year rule and attachment requirements according to the Danish model – from which this is now adopted. What is interesting is that this type of wording is used in the context of asylum policy, i.e. not generally in relation to immigration policy or integration policy. The arguments for these things have in the past been that you want to stop the forced marriage, and that these are measures that will help stop this. But now it is included in the asylum policy. It tells me something about this government having accepted the rhetoric and the premise that there is a clear link between immigration policy in general on the one hand, in relation to asylum policy, and the family immigration rules used. In the past, the Government has refrained from drawing such comparisons. It has thus been accepted by the Progress Party that the rules on family start-up should be applied, for immigration policy limiting reasons. It is also very interesting to see that the principle of having to take a Norwegian test and pass it in order to become a Norwegian national has been introduced. It is an action The Progress Party has reaped a lot of criticism for earlier. Assistance policies will also be involved and seen in the context of the return of illegal immigrants. I'm sorry, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who is not trying to see the context that is obvious, namely that we are now building upon a principle that the Progress Party has laid down all the way. Perhaps the most surprising thing about everything — you have to read correctly what the government statement says — is that you will now set up care and education services for lone minor asylum seekers in their country of origin. Thus, asylum seekers, minors, must be placed in reception abroad. If we are to understand the wording of the government statement, what we are talking about is – perhaps even the reception of asylum in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1782	It is not always the case that all the good that is done in Norway is the responsibility of the government, or that the government has the credit for it. But last year we achieved a new record. We got a birth record in Norway. The number of births is now 1.96 per. woman. That's the highest birth rate since 1975. It is not that the Storting has decided how high birth rates should be. But it's always the case that there's a connection between the policy you're running and people's private choice to have children. When women in Norway went out to work, birth rates fell quite dramatically. At that time, women had three months of maternity leave. There were almost no kindergartens. It wasn't the SFO. Then in the last few years, we've arranged for a policy that makes it possible to stay at home longer and actually have a link to work by getting safe care for your children while you're at work, and SFO after school. This has meant that we have high birth rates in Norway. While countries such as Italy, Japan and South Korea, with birth rates of 1.1 or 1.2 per year. woman, come to us to learn what we've done to have a high female professional participation and many children. I believe that one of the reasons why we have such a good economy in Norway is that women are out of work. This has been achieved through a family-friendly policy in recent years. In Norway, we also have some of the world's best men. Almost no one takes as much of their children as Norwegian men. It's also about politics. From July 1st, we got ten weeks' paper commission. Then there's someone who says that the paper commission is an intervention in people's private choices -- this is something each family gets to control themselves. But we know that fathers who want to take care of their kids, fathers who want to be home with their kids when they're newborn, are more than women being discriminated against in the workplace if they go beyond the set quota. That's why the father quota is about to give the Norwegian man greater freedom of choice, because he actually gets the choice to be home with his children. Now there's also a lot more fathers who get self-sufficiency, because we're now giving everyone who has a wife who's earned half a G, a father's allowance, so that more and more men also get those rights. The government wants to convert the cash support scheme. We know that the cash support works well as a transitional arrangement between kindergarten and work. Some people have children in January and may not have children's gardening space until August of the following year. But the cash support does not work as intended for two-year-olds. We know that among those with a minority background, more than half are at home on cash support. Many of those children had been better off getting proper language training in kindergarten. Many of the mothers who look after the children had been better off out in the workplace. It's something over 20 pst. of those with a Norwegian background who use the cash support when they have two-year-olds. Therefore, the Government wants to convert the cash support scheme into a good support scheme for those who are at home with their children in part during the first year. I am pleased with the representative Højbråten's initiative to highlight in particular the challenge of the vulnerable children. I believe that there must be a main priority in the coming period. More and more children are receiving child protection assistance – 44 000 children versus 30000 children 10 years ago. We know that those children who get help early from child protection are doing better than other children. That's why we're dependent on a good municipal child protection system that can see the children early, and I want a broad cooperation with the Stortinge in these matters. I believe that the biological principle has come too far. We must increasingly put children's legal certainty in the centre. In the cases where there is a difference between parents’ needs and children’s needs for help, we need to put children’s needs more and more first. Finally, I would like to say something about equal pay. The government will give priority to equal pay in the coming years. If this is to lead to lasting changes, we are dependent on an agreement between the social partners. If we don't get such an agreement, the result of an equal pay settlement can be zeroed out in the next settlement. Therefore, we are committed to providing a basis for lasting changes that can ensure a greater level of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1805	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1808	In his speech, the Council of State boasts that one of the main objectives of this government is to help children who are hurting. But I want to remind the Council of State that in Soria Moria I the Red-Greens announced that they should have an extra focus on the rights and the life situation of minor asylum seekers. In Soria Moria II, they also aim to do something for these children. But then they say that the resource situation in child protection is so bad that it's impossible to do anything about it in the next four years. This is a betrayal of minor asylum seekers and can be read as if the Council of State did not get an impact on the Government for increased child protection appropriations during this period. We also have an example of a 15-year-old girl sitting alone in a reception where 80 pst. by asylum seekers are men. Does anyone think she's safe? My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State, which is so concerned about children's rights, about equality and discrimination, mean that this situation is sustainable for four new years? Does the Council of State agree that we in this country have one authority age for the Norwegian children and one for minor asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1820	I am busy giving small children who come to Norway alone, a good offer. There are far more small children coming to Norway than we expected when the Stortinget made its decision. That's why we've chosen to give priority to the youngest children, those under the age of 15. But I believe, with the offensive attitude that the representative of the Progress Party now has, that the Progress Party will include in its alternative budget the building of care facilities for all under 18 years of age for which child protection is to be the responsibility. This would mean that we had to more than double the number of child protection institutions in Norway. With the major challenges we now face in the field of child protection, we believe that this is not fair. We are committed to providing a reinforced child protection service to those who currently live at reception, but we are occupied with the youngest children first. They will have a care package of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1827	In the four years ahead of us, it will be important for the Right to focus attention on those who need it the most, instead of focusing on introducing expensive and administratively demanding welfare schemes for the established middle class of well-functioning families. We are now seeing a very worrying development in child protection. There is obviously a systemic crisis in child protection. Municipal Child Protection must be strengthened, not just in terms of economics. Well, that's how important it is to get a structural change. We are aware that the Government has put down a sample, but – with all due respect for the Council of State – these children do not deserve to sit and wait for the outcome of a sample work. What will the Council of State do for the municipalities that do not currently have decision-making powers as to the nature of the individual child’s offer in taking care of him or her? During this period, will the Council of State transfer the second line service of child protection to the municipalities themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1836	The answer to the question is no, and that is because the state offers a more specialised offer. We need to be aware that those who live in child protection institutions today have very different needs. Some people need psychiatric treatment. Others need treatment for drug abuse. That's why we want to make a much better offer at the individual institution. But I agree with the representative that it is the challenges of municipal child protection that are our main priority. It is due to some lack of knowledge and competence, but it is also due to the manning situation. The fact that so many more children get help, there are many more cases per. employed. If we are to give better follow-up to each, it requires – and that is the Workers' Party and the other government parties always concerned – a strengthened municipal economy. But we are also engaged in a cooperation agreement with KS that can facilitate more employees. The size of the population has just adopted a number of legislative changes that will strengthen the legal certainty of children in child protection cases. I look forward to working with the Right on these important issues and am pleased that the representative from the Right places the child protection children as high on the agenda as she is now doing with her post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1845	I thank the Council of State for its positive response also to the Christian People's Party initiative for the most vulnerable children. We have heard today the Prime Minister highlight the event that the goal of full child care coverage has been achieved. The Christian People's Party would like to participate in the celebration and also take our share of the honour. But when the freedom of choice is finally in place, with both cash support and full child care coverage, the Soria Moria II declaration comes, warning that the cash support for two-year-olds should be removed. Thousands of families are reunited in kindergarten queues – i.e. from full coverage to new queues. The question to the Council of State is therefore: When will the Government fulfill the promise of full childcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1852	I wonder that the Christian People's Party will join in and take credit that we now have full child care coverage. When I had my first child, it would cost 14 000 kroner to have three children in kindergarten. It didn't pay for people to work when the Christian People's Party was responsible for family policy. So the fact that there is a connection between the number of kindergartens and the price of kindergartens is clearly in the process of shaping people's choices. I believe that people have far greater freedom of choice today than what we had when the Christian People's Party ruled family politics. We want to reduce the use of cash support because we believe that many children should go to kindergarten when they are two years old. This applies not least to minority children. But we want to use the cash support for one-year-olds, because it works as a good transition between maternity leave and kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1859	The first Soria Moria statement stated that the Government would ‘allow father the right to earn independent leave rights’. This promise did not fulfill the Government. In the new Soria Moria II declaration, this objective has been reduced to ‘ensure several springs of independent performance rights for the spring quota’. I want fathers to take care of their young children, especially immigrant fathers. Is there no longer any real objective of non-discrimination between mother and father in the parental penitentiary legislation? Will not self-sufficiency provide the necessary incentives for more fathers to take care of their young children, in line with the wishes of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1866	I believe that what is mostly involved in making immigrant fathers take responsibility for their children is two changes to the law that we passed in the previous period, but that have not yet come into force. One is that parents are now entitled to parental leave when their mother attends Norwegian courses, or when their mother participates in a qualification programme. It gives a very good balance between dad taking responsibility for the kids at home, and the fact that mom qualifies to participate in the business. Then it's clearly a goal that more people will be entitled to a father's allowance. Most people have it today, but we also want mechanisms that stimulate work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1871	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1874	It does something to me as a single person when I meet drug users who would like help, but who are asked to stand in an endless queue together with 4,500 other individuals who also have a drug problem. It does something to all of us when we hear about the little heart diseased boy Jonas who doesn't get help from the Norwegian health care system. It also does something to us when we hear about and meet older nurturing people who do not receive the proper care for the elderly they are entitled to. I am convinced that all of us in this Chamber are affected by meetings with individuals who suffer, and in one of the richest countries in the world. However, it is necessary to see the individuals, the individuals, in the system made by us politicians. I think I have everyone with me when I say that we can't be satisfied with the situation of many individuals and individuals in today's healthcare system. I want us not only to be the world's best country to live in for the vast majority, but my dream is that Norway should have the world's best health care for everyone. My vision is that the 4,500 drug addicts in line for help will be met by the world's best and most holistic care. My vision is that older caregivers, those who have built the country's wealth and our well-being, too, will have a decent and good care for the elderly, regardless of which municipality they live in. My vision is that Jonas and everyone else who can't be helped by the Norwegian health service will get help elsewhere if possible. We're all going to spend time working to improve the health system, for the benefit of the individual. I hope that day comes when we can stand together in this room and say, "We've done it." In the name of humility, I think exactly the word 'we' is necessary to achieve this – across party boundaries, across ideologies and across everyday disagreements. This brings me to the point that is likely to be the major health policy debate in the coming period, namely the interaction reform. Let me first begin by expressing consensus in relation to the Government's wish for a reform. Let me also express agreement on the analysis related to the need for early intervention, prevention and assistance at the lowest possible level. It's a right and a good goal. The diagnosis is basically very correct, but the government's prescribed medicine is unfortunately crazy. And as we all know, if you get crazy medicine, you actually don't get better, you can get worse. I am very sceptical about the key prerequisite for the success of the interaction reform, namely the financing system itself. The government wants municipal co-financing of the specialist health service. This will result in municipal variations related to whether or not the option of investing in prevention, large annual cost variations, will affect small and medium-sized municipalities the most. To put it a little tabloid: it is difficult for a municipality with approx. 1 000 people to budget for how many heart operations, cancer cases and hip replacements you can expect to pay for next year. This causes me to fear the inhabitants, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities, and what help they will get. What is outlined in the interaction reform is in many ways to adopt the great differences we see in the care of the elderly, to also make use of the specialist health service. This seems to me to be a wrong direction for the Progress Party. What we have to do, however, is bring together the financial responsibility for all health and care services into one place – call it one sack. In this way, an effective, comprehensive, non-fragmented and good offer will be made to all residents, regardless of their residence address. Only in this way will you be able to gain the vision of a health care service that takes care of the individual in the system. I have noticed that the Government has not concluded in all areas of the interaction reform. If I are to assess the situation with confidence and hope for the future, this will lead to a light in the tunnel, also in view of the possibility of bringing about the necessary changes in the interaction reform. I want to send an open invitation to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's successor. The Progress Party is more than willing to cooperate on health reform. We'll sit down at the table to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1897	The debate on the throne is the opportunity of the Storting to raise its eyes a little, discuss the government's policy, focus on differences and alternative policies. The last is simple this year. This government has delivered a throne speech and a government platform that more bears the mark of being a business ministry. There must be the big internal contradictions that make it so obvious with the least common multiple solutions, as we have seen in the previous four years. Where is the capacity and the will for renewal? Where do we find reforms that a modern society needs to develop in a rapidly changing world? No, they can't be found. Ideology is based on spending money, in the same way as before, without will or ability to innovate, structural change or reform. It can only mean that the government has put itself on the blush in these areas because of a lack of consensus. Right-wing policies are based on taking care of the best in society, but on renewing and reforming where necessary. Then it simply doesn't help to settle down on just spending more money. Community is also concerned with how we manage Community funds. It cannot and should not happen uncritically and without the will to renew itself. I will illustrate this with a few examples of transport policy. Here the Government has repeatedly boasted of its efforts, to over-measures as an important contribution in financial crisis times. However, what seems to have passed the entire government house is that the cost developments in this sector have eaten up – and more than that – the government’s investment. No more roads are built with this government, it is less reasphalted, the roads are falling faster. For the right, it has been important to focus on increased appropriations. That is why we have prioritised NOK 16 billion more than the government parties of the sector. But we recognize that this is not enough either. That is why we have agreed to set up a maintenance fund of SEK 50 billion to address the major challenges in this area. The government's response has been negative. This makes the situation worse, as the Riksrevision has pointed out in a recent report. The right will also reform theactivities of society, modernise the form of society, change the planning processes, red tape where appropriate. In the right we saw early in the last period that the Government had neither the will nor the ability to reform and innovation in this sector. Moreover, it can best be illustrated by the government’s burial of the self-created expectation of project financing. That's why we've created our own transport plan. We will make sure that the government parties are given ample opportunity to join many of these in the time to come. One of the most important steps is the continuation of the success of the OPS model. This will require the launch of many projects, speed up implementation, and thus ensure that we develop important sections before the major welfare challenges are fully addressed, in 10–15 years. The change of reply between the former Secretary of State, now Secretary of State, Pollestad and the Leader of the Right, on OPS earlier today clearly shows that the Government is on sylton ice in its counter-argument and justification – either that or they have not understood or will not understand the clear advantage of the OPS model. For this, many are more concerned with the structure and organisation of the task than with funding. But there is an organisation that requires increased use of private solutions, and in this area, the private allergy of the Government has perhaps been most evident, unfortunately. However, I would like to invite the government parties to change their position here, and they will receive full support from the Right when they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1918	After reading the Soria Moria II statement, it is tempting to go to Sweden and refer to former party leaders in the Christian Democrats, Alf Svensson, who said: Why haven't the Social Democrats discovered the family? It's a school of solidarity. The red-green government suggests that their main project is to strengthen the community. So what does that mean? Most people are asked which communities are most important to them in their lives and everyday lives, most people are likely to say the family. Family and life forms may be different, but for most people the answer will be the same. However, the government, which has made it its main project to strengthen the community, has almost abolished the word ‘family policy’ from its political agenda. Where are new generations of little roles learning their first concepts of right and wrong, of taking into account other and simple rules of the game that build community? The first government in many decades without a family minister has also found that one of the worrying developments of our time is that families spend too much time together. The fathers spend too much time with their two-year-olds. Mothers seem to have the same problem, and the big loser is the social machinery – or community, as it is also called in red-green terminology. The vast majority of young children’s parents do not shout after less time, less freedom of choice and less flexibility. The Christian People's Party will go the opposite way of the Government. We will give more freedom of choice, more flexibility, more time to those who have the world's most important job: to behave and care for the very least. This means the introduction of flexiperm, with increased parental leave and more flexible withdrawals. It means increased cash support and no to full-time school. As the country's legislative assembly, there is reason to reflect on which main principles are most important in our legislation. If we were to start with blank sheets without all the laws that the 153 large ones before us have passed, where would we start? The answer might have to be first to assure us that someone is taking care of those who cannot take care of themselves. The answer might have to start with Section 30 of the Children's Act. It is stated that the parents are obliged to give the child ‘regard and concern’, as it is called. Parental responsibility is the first and most important tool to ensure that the most vulnerable among us have a hand to hold in – or community, to use a different word. Family life and life forms have changed a lot in recent decades. One of the most important changes is the gradual introduction of fathers into the daily care of their own children. In the middle of this, it is a great paradox that the Stortinget adopted changes in, among other things, a year ago. the child law and the marriage law, which state that children do not need fathers. The changes made to the new marriage law were a setback and set out to develop the modern father's role, and thus equality, many years ago. I think it's a matter of time before it turns out that it's not possible to have legislation that is so in conflict with the modern view of the importance of fathers. The fathers must be even stronger on the road in caring for their own young. It's important for the kids, but it's also good for the equality. But that's not enough. It is also necessary to allocate funds to an equal pay pool, as the Equal pay Commission has previously recommended. But that battle was unfortunately lost in Soria Moria II. Different wages and salaries for equal work are unfair. The government must contribute to a pay gap where the gap is greatest: for women’s dominated professions in the public sector. To strengthen the community and create a society with space for everyone is so much more than securing the income tax of the Norwegian state. It's about equivalency, about giving the very least a good start in the small communities, where you learn to respect and live with others – a school of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1949	Individuals are responsible for shaping their own lives. That's what we're asking. The Community is responsible for shaping a society where possible. That's the requirement we have to satisfy ourselves. Norway is a good country to live in for most of us, most of the time. But in different stages of life, we all learn, in different ways, something about standing outside. Unlucky circumstances can lead to money not being spent for a period of time. A life crisis that is stifled with alcohol can lead to drug problems. A girl who falls in love with a man who beats can risk no one believing in her. These are examples of how short it can be for all of us, with a little bit of unhappiness, to go from being Someone to being One or other. But the unhappiness is not fairly distributed. Some people experience it more often than others. When there's a ten-year difference in life expectancy between east and west in Oslo, it's not just because of unhappiness. When students at Hersleb school in Oslo get a whole character lower than those in Middle School in the same city, it's not just because of unhappiness. When Norwegian-Somalic Mahdi doesn't get a job until he calls himself Mads, it's not just a matter of unhappiness. The Labour Party believes that it is a public responsibility to remove the pattern of unhappiness experienced by some individuals and groups, even when they take responsibility for their own lives. Our right-hand political opponents often claim that it is giving people special advantages. It's not. It's about removing the weird things that many people can do. If we're going to get it done, we can't just fix what's not working well enough. We need to prevent differences and give people equal opportunities, rights and obligations. You don't build a society just with good individual measures. Prevention is about better interaction and coordination across sectors. The quality and effort of one sector may have ring-effects in several other areas. For example, young people who come from high school are often also less likely to have other living conditions statistics later. Similarly, we see the importance of safe living conditions in removing the starting blocks of a future criminal runway. We want to prioritize the big money for the big problems, and we want to do it before the big problems become big problems. Common to all prevention is that if you address the problems early, it is also easier to do something with them, whether it is crime, poverty or high school dropout. The representative of Solveig Horne spoke about prevention in his post. I'm glad. That is not the norm on the part of the Progress Party. While our political opponents from the Progress Party will repair alcohol-related violence in the streets only with more police, we have sent to the hearing a proposal to also reduce turnout times. While the Progress Party will repair poverty by cutting in the line of work and in the qualification programme, we will give priority to ensuring that everyone has equal opportunities to work and to have their own income. While the Progress Party will repair high school dropouts with more discipline, we will prevent early efforts and close follow-up using more and better teachers. Prevention is a public responsibility. It cannot be delegated to the market and political governance is needed. With a renewed majority, we will spend the next four years on being even more critical of how the welfare society works. In addition to the efforts to heal, relieve and repair, we shall work actively to avert, facilitate and assist before the problems arise. By preventing more, we repair less. It costs less, for individuals and for society. The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen talked about the cracks in the welfare community in his post, the cracks in which you can fall. Then people don't primarily need a better safety net that gets caught in, and that makes the situation not so bad there and then. What you need is a trampoline that's safe to land on, but that also gives speed out of the situation. This is what prevention is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1977	It might be tempting to start by saying to the previous speaker that it's a fact that quite a lot of people have hurt themselves by jumping and landing on the trampoline, but I'll leave it lying, because that's not what was the overall recording of the previous speaker. One of the things that I think is perhaps most important beyond the borders of the state is our relationship with Afghanistan. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was in on it before today. The Prime Minister was in on it before today. There is no doubt that, in terms of foreign policy, Afghanistan is among the most difficult but also of the most important. That is why it is good that the Storing has largely agreed on the direction to be taken in assisting and addressing the challenges facing Afghanistan. At the same time, I will join the honour given by the Foreign Minister from here today to everyone who has been there and who is there doing a job to promote peace and democracy. There's a lot of respect for it, and the way to do it is to keep going in the same direction. The size has always agreed on this. I think the challenge, however, is to find a good balance between military and civil action. You can't kind of break these off, because I think to some extent the civil effort is dependent on having a military network that allows it to be implemented. At the same time, one cannot fight for peace. It points the story to Afghanistan to the degrees -- there's more than one that's gone off in the Khyberpass. There has never been any success for those who have tried. If you want to succeed in Afghanistan, the main challenge is to show that our way of life through democracy is a better solution than what you have today – to have tribal feuds and to a large extent to live on opium production. It's something that the rest of the world struggles to accept. We have to influence a social change so that Afghanistan can flourish, but in a different way than they do today, literally. We must then actively demonstrate that democracy gives rights that should not be taken for granted everywhere and that Afghanistan has a limited tradition. In that way, there's one thing in the Soria Moria statement that worries me, and that's where it's said that you're considering a possible slowdown in military efforts. With all possible respect — I am glad to record that some of the other countries active in relation to Afghanistan have at all suggested a slowdown. On the contrary, the challenge for the Norwegian government has been an increased effort. There has been a discussion about where the Norwegian forces were going to do a job and what kind of job to do, but falling down I think gives a signal that is scary, which is bad. It only gives a good signal to those who want the West to fail in Afghanistan. We shouldn't do that. We can't afford to do that. I believe that if NATO, the United Nations and all the good forces that work in Afghanistan lose the fight for democracy, it will be a great retreat, not just in Afghanistan, but for all those who believe in these kinds of solutions. Not least, it will be a blow to the faces of women who are working today and who want a more active role in society in Afghanistan – a tradition they have not had, but who will be part of a new way of life if a democracy is established. The same will apply to the girls who are allowed to go to school, who have not had tradition for it. It shows how important this is. Things we take for granted are a challenge to put in place in Afghanistan because there are so strong counter-powers to this. As I have said before, I think our main challenge is to show that the other way is better than what they have today. We must then involve and involve the Afghan population as far as possible. I had the pleasure of listening to the former Minister of the Interior in Afghanistan a few times. He faced a challenge: when the West takes relief measures by granting funds, they often have their own companies to do the job. I listened to him in Brussels, he said, how can we involve Afghans, when we sit and watch foreigners come and do the job for us? What kind of involvement, commitment and ownership shall we get when we look at? We're seen as beggars because we're sitting there and engaging ourselves far too little. Much of the help is provided by contracting companies in their own countries that come down and do the job. That's not the way to go, at least it's not a way that I think engages Afghans as we want. Finally, to my main concern, which goes on the signal of a possible dropdown. It's: what kind of signal will it give survivors after all those who have lost their lives so far, or to those who are injured for life after making an effort down there – if you were to step down at a time when you haven't solved the challenges that are there? What kind of feelings should they be left with? Have they done it for nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e1996	I am proud of the platform that the Government has presented for the work over the next four years, and that has seen the course to build the country further. My main concern is that it should be good to bow and be attractive to engage in business throughout the country. There is a strong emphasis on future-oriented value creation in the platform. Soria Moria II has a clear business profile, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is good central party policy, good red-green policy, and important and necessary at a time when Norwegian business also notices the consequences of the financial crisis. The government will include: working with changes in taxes on wealth, contributing to a fairer distribution and better framework conditions for Norwegian business. We shall assess the fiscal framework for sole proprietorships compared to limited liability companies, and the arrangements for the provision of state capital to SMEs at an early stage, in order to finance enterprises with good and profitable ideas. Renewable energy is future. Green jobs within tourism, renewable energy and environmental technologies should become a growing industry in Norway. We're putting in place a stepping-up plan for renewable energy. Green Electricity Certificate shall be in place from 2012. We also ensure a transitional arrangement that will give all new power plants the same conditions as the green certificate scheme. A green revolution is going on. It is important to address the climate challenge, and it is important to transform Norwegian business and create new jobs. The government will ensure basic welfare services where people live. We need to make a significant contribution to the community economy in order to ensure more teachers in school and better care in the health sector. Quality must be in focus. That's why the work on equal pay is so important. It's important for us in the government that we get a good school. Then we have to get more and more highly qualified teachers into the school. When Right-Leader Solberg today claims that extroversion is absent from the Government's policy, it is wrong. We need to make sure that we get better performance as well as after- and after-and-after-exploitation. The government has in the four years that lie behind us, implemented a lift for traffic that few thought one would get when we started that period. We will continue to implement the transport lift, and we will contribute to the future of broadband throughout the country. The provision of a better infrastructure is fundamental to economic development, it is fundamental to the building of life, not least because young people want to make their way out and live in our districts. It is also important for us to have a living agriculture throughout the country and to further develop the incomes we have generated in the last four years. Workplaces are very basic for busses. Ensuring professional workplaces is also an important task for us. The platform determines that growth in new state enterprise will take place outside Oslo. Competence jobs are a key to further growth. That key we're going to take care of, and we're going to use it to open new doors, not least too high a youth who wants to move home or who wants to move to places out in our country. The government is busy listening to people. If changes are to be made and this is to be done, it shall be done on the premises of the local population. When a person listens to some posts in the room today, one might believe that public sector renewal is removing structures that are important to people and removing services that are important in the local environment. For us, it's important to keep up the supply where people live, whether it's airfields, local hospitals, county office or a decentralised police structure. Changes in the municipal structure shall take place on a voluntary basis. It does not mean that a freezing service is present. There will be changes, there will be new tasks, but it will happen with additions and with people locally. It has been important for us to take care of central center values in the platform. This is done by investing in municipalities, in voluntary sectors, in districts, and in decentralisation. It is a good centre policy when we decide not to apply for membership of the EU. It is also a good centre policy to review the EEA Agreement and see what action spaces exist to safeguard Norwegian interests. It is clarified that the use of the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement is relevant. Freedom of choice is important to people. Thus, cash support is passed on, as the Centre Party had in its programme, so we should have a strengthened care for the elderly, so that those who want to live at home will have good follow-up and opportunity to do so, and therefore the SFO is a voluntary offer, so that parents can organise their day as the family wants. We have provided a platform that will be very interesting to implement in the future. I hope for a good cooperation with the Storting in the many important matters, and for many good debates in this hall over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2017	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2020	The Soria Moria II declaration creates some uncertainty about a couple of private airports in Norway. I want to refer Secretary of State Lahnstein, who says: ‘If we do not limit the development of Rygge, it will be a challenge for Torp.’ He may have said something of the same thing to a newspaper in the neighborhood that has the second airport. The question to the Council of State is: what kind of action does the Government want to use in relation to the two private airports competing with the main airport at Gardermoen? Is it price, or is it poorer quality for those who use the aerodromes that are the Government's response to what is stated in the Soria Moria II statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2032	The government has in the years we have run very good frame conditions for both Torp and Rygge. The stork has said that Gardermoen should be the main airfield. It has also taken us into account in the important work we have done over the last four years to create a balance that does not go at the cost of the main aerodrome, which is again important for the regional network and the total network of airports that we have in this country, and the financing of these. These are the elements that we're also going to include in our work, simply follow up the Stortinget's decision on the Gardermoen as the main aerodrome, while ensuring that both Torp and Rygge are good and forward-looking airports for their regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2037	The OPS model means faster start-up, faster deployment and thus better mobility and road safety for many important sections. The Council of State has stated on several occasions that the OPS model is a form of road construction hire or debt financing that she will not recommend. So I have two questions: Can the Council confirm that her large-scale toll financing model for projects is not a form of loan-funded repayment? So the council says there's money it depends on – if we just grant enough, we'll achieve the same without borrowing costs. Can the Government confirm that she and the Government will increase the appropriations for transport projects that provide the same rate of realisation as the OPS model would?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2046	Toll financing is largely financed by loans. When we have discussed OPS, it is that part of the budget which is not toll but which is part of the financing solutions of the State. At least that's how I perceive the Right and the discussions that we've had before. The question of whether or not to finance those sections of a loan in various private banks, or whether to do so over the state budget, is the question of whether or not to finance them. Now, when implementing E6 northwards, we have seen that the construction time, which has been an important argument for the Right before, will not be any shorter on the individual project through OPS. We have actually got a shorter timeline on the E6 northwards than one had on the OPS project. Which promises will come in the next period will be returned first with the budget tomorrow, and later with the budget that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2051	Parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Battle of Vedum, asked us to read Soria Moria II. Of course we have. In the field of transport, I see clearly the mark of both the Minister of Transport and the party leaders in the declaration. That's good. But it's a matter that the Center Party has highlighted, and it's a wreckage and an environmental car premium of NOK 40,000. It is an important issue, both from an environmental point of view and from the point of view of security in communication. Governments highlight the central values at the end of their article. This is one thing we're gathering about. Is this a matter for which the Council of State wants to see through and can we promise that we will see the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2058	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Hareide on the leadership of the Committee on Transport. It will be interesting to cooperate with the representative on important issues. When it comes to wreckage, it's a theme that I definitely want to work on. There is no notice in Soria Moria II. It has natural cause. If we had announced NOK 40,000 in a wreckage in Soria Moria II, it would have been quite quiet around today for those who accepted the car for wrecking. Such a case must necessarily come when it comes, but we will continue to work to realize a system that will give us a faster replacement of the impending car park and the award to those who want to run environmentally friendly. We'll do that in a lot of different ways, and considering the wreckage is such a system that can be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2065	In the election campaign, the Centre Party promised 40,000 new green jobs over the next four years. In the new government platform, Soria Moria II, it is difficult to see how the Central Party will manage to implement that promise, because there are very many good intentions and promises in the platform, but the Central Party has obviously lost the battle to provide green tax havens or more concrete support measures, as the Council of State Navarsete promised in the election campaign. My question is: Does the leader of the Centre agree with the Left that it is soon time for a somewhat powerful tax shift, from more red taxes to more green taxes, so that we can cope with the 40,000 green jobs – yes, maybe 80,000 – because we need them to solve both the climate crisis and secure the welfare of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2073	I agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that we should have a shift in both taxation and industrial policy overall in a green direction. I look forward to many good discussions and contributions from the Left in that context. There is a lot we can discuss and be a few about, but we must also base the policy that the Government has pursued and that has already led us to a green transformation. It's not like we're starting at the zero point today. On the tax side as well as when it relates to industrial policy, we are in the process of a green turnaround. This change must be reinforced in the coming years, so that it will be reflected in fiscal policy, and it will be reflected in industrial policy. And then they tell us how many green jobs it's been. But I am absolutely sure that the government's policy will be forward, both offensive and secure more jobs, not least ensuring that we have an industry that is turning green. It's what Norway wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2078	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2081	We are now at the very beginning of a new four-year period, where there are many challenges that lie ahead of us, but there are equal opportunities. One of our greatest challenges that requires one to see the opportunity and take the opportunity is about global warming and the climate change that we see. Greenhouse gas emissions are the main environmental issue and global warming is inextricably linked to the fight against poverty. In the government’s political platform, the climate has been raised as one of the main areas. The entire platform is soaked in. Norway shall be a leading country in environmental policy. We need to ensure that future generations have access to a good environment, a stable climate and a rich natural diversity. Therefore, environmental considerations must be comprehensive in everything we do. Norway shall base its policy on the principle of sustainable development and the sound management of natural resources. Climate change is suffering unfairly. It is unfair across both generations and national borders. The biggest problems hit the poorest countries, while the historical ones are created by the rich part of the world, and they hit us here and now. This is why the Government in spring presented both a development message and a communication on Norwegian foreign policy, both of which put the climate at the centre of the agenda. This highlights the link between climate challenges and foreign policy. We show how climate and energy policy interests form an integral part of Norwegian foreign policy. If we do not resolve the climate crisis, it will over time strengthen the world's poverty problem to such an extent that it becomes insurmountable. If we don't make significant progress in solving the world's poverty problem, very many developing countries will neither be able nor would be able to participate in the global climate challenge we now need. The only way we in the rich world can bring the poor countries of the world into a binding climate agreement is that we take large parts of the bill ourselves. The poor world will not agree to a new Kyoto agreement if it means that it delays their path out of poverty. To them, the fight against hunger, poverty and need is more important today than the fight against global warming tomorrow. That's why we have to take a lot of the bills that are coming. That is why the rich countries should also invest in the environment and clean-up technologies of poor countries, so that they also help to lift people out of poverty. It will require a massive transfer of capital, knowledge and technology from the rich countries to the poor countries. For the first time, developing countries will be placed in a position where they can put power behind the demands of a fairer world economic order. In order to avoid an increase in the temperature of the soil by more than 2 degrees over pre-industrial time, global emissions need to be reduced by 50-85 pst. by 2050. By 2020, industrialised countries will have to reduce emissions by 25-40 p.p., while emissions growth in developing countries will have to be limited. Therefore, Norway shall pursue a more comprehensive and ambitious international climate agreement to follow the Kyoto Agreement. It is therefore essential that a large-scale cut-off be put in place quickly, while at the same time developing new technologies that can reduce emissions in the longer term. We're going to overfill the Kyoto agreement by 10 pst. We're going to tighten up Norway's climate targets to match the 40 pst cuts in emissions. by 2020. That Norway shows so clearly that one actually means it and not just says it, reaped a jubilee for in Bangkok this weekend. The Government shall also provide a strategy for assessing climate policy and the need for changed instruments, including sectoral climate action plans. A new international climate agreement calls for a revision of national targets and instruments and a review of how Norway’s overall efforts should be structured. A concrete action plan will also be drawn up for all sectors as to how the Norwegian society must prepare to live with climate change and how to address it. In any case, when I listen to the debate today, and then perhaps especially on contributions from representatives of the Left and the Christian People's Party – who have a great commitment both to climate issues and to poverty reduction – it promises well how to manage to use the opportunity that lies there, in order to achieve the common goals together. If we don't do what's right today, we'll be judged when history is written, and then we'll be judged that we did the right thing today for the best for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2100	School is one of society's most important institutions for building bridges to the future. The main task of the school is to provide children and young people with the necessary knowledge equipment to master life and work. It imposes great demands on school owners, school managers and thousands of teachers who enter Norwegian classrooms every day. Government and growth must take the most seriously the concern that comes from small municipalities, which even raise doubts as to whether you have the necessary prerequisites to give your students a school that is as good as larger municipalities. It is the Right's starting point that we cannot allow ourselves to four on the quality requirements in school – for the sake of students and for them to be best prepared to meet society outside. Norwegian students must be guaranteed, independently of their place of residence, adequate basic training which complies with the law and which gives individual students the opportunity to extend and develop their own skills and facilities. The red-green government has approached the Right in school and education policy in several areas, but there is a little half-hearted about the effort, and still SV believes that food is just as important as math. The government has not had enough pressure on measures to prevent many students from leaving primary school without being able to read and write enough and to complete secondary education. The result is, as you know, an alarmingly high rate of non-response. To date, the government has not had a sufficient focus on how today’s teachers are to receive it through further training by a large majority of teachers themselves. More teachers are important, but it takes time! Therefore, there is now a need for a large-scale effort on the teachers who are in school today, because it is those who can make up the difference in the short term. All research shows that the teacher’s competence is crucial for the learner’s learning. On the right, the Government challenges a strategy that can enhance the competence of today’s teachers, and a special force must be put in place in relation to key subjects such as Norwegian and mathematics – because these subjects are important door openers for understanding and acquiring knowledge in all other subjects. On the right, the Government also challenges a shift in focus from what is happening in school leave to what is happening in school time. This fall is the school arena for several TV series, and it is probably more than I have enjoyed the progress of the students who are in the «Blank Sheet». Here we have met a group of students, far up in primary school, with major professional problems, but who, after careful monitoring and tailor-made training, have experienced amazing progress after a short time. Daily and professional defeats have turned to daily and professional excursions. The right is concerned that the help needs to be inserted as early as possible when students are struggling, but luckily the Blank Sheet shows that it is never too late to provide good help. In addition, the series underpins the importance of the clear teacher and the necessary competence of the teacher. The Prime Minister, on several occasions after the elections, has warned, and more than suggested, that it is going against tighter economic times in the Kingdom. It imposes great demands on a government that in times of liberal budgets has not shown the will and ability to prioritize school and knowledge as much as it should. School and knowledge policies require long-term investment and planning. The six-year-olds who met for school start-up this fall will not be finished with their secondary education in 2021 — or three more. The right has had and will continue to have school and education at the top of its political agenda, because it is about our future ability to create value and to safeguard well-being. Right will have a school with a greater emphasis on knowledge and learning, and that is why we have proposed a force sentence on the continuing training of teachers with DKK 3 billion in this ageing period. Well-qualified teachers require society to be able to motivate the most attractive students to bet on a teacher's career. Good student performance requires students to meet challenges and demands that require them to reach out and make maximum use of their abilities. Good schools require conscious school owners and more systematic contact between school and working life. The right also calls for an initiative by the Government to ensure that national tests are a good tool for better learning, regardless of the size of the municipality and school. The Oslo municipality is perhaps the very best example of what can be achieved when the results of national tests are used wisely and systematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2130	I was about. 12 years the first time I met a person from Africa in Norway. Today I have friends from many corners of the world. Aida, Maryam, Faisal and Akrami are some people who make me affected when there is extreme violence in the Philippines, terror in Afghanistan, unrest in Somalia or riots in Iran. Almost the whole world has become part of my everyday life. The lack and proximity of people in the world means that we need more fellowship, not less; more meeting places, not less; more dialogue, not less. Social democratic policy has always been about setting people free. I am pleased that the government's new platform continues to 1 pst. of gross domestic product for development and assistance. Our goal of everyone's participation must also apply beyond their own limits. I am proud that the Government did not choose to finance tax cuts with a reduction in aid, as parties on the right would. Before the election campaign started properly, we heard that Norway would change within 100 days of the election. The main message was clear: a different country was to be created. The Progress Party did not want Norway to be able each year to live in one of the world’s best countries. I am grateful to live in Norway. Going to the Grandfather's opening with grandchildren is not possible in all countries. We move as safely and without fear to the opening of the Storting as to the ballot boxes. This is not the case in all countries, and these extremes are about political choices. We have living conditions challenges, and working for everyone is one of the most important welfare goals we have. Vest-Agder is a kind of mini-Norway – we have bad living conditions, and we have some of the world's best business and industry. We are poor at gender equality, we have low occupational participation among women, and we have little education and many disabled people. At the same time, West-Agder is the world leader in manufacturing, offshore and climate industries, and we have a fantastic nature – sea and hey – that thanks to a red-green policy is now more accessible to everyone. Farsund Aluminium Casting AS was on the brink of bankruptcy in winter. ==References== 200 were licensed. Thanks to state guarantee schemes, investors ventured to invest, and the company now has 170 working days. In offshore and shipyards there are uncertain times ahead. The financial crisis is not over, and we need an active state contribution to migration and education to minimise the negative consequences. In West Agder, high unemployment would be particularly severe because we have the major living conditions challenges. The government’s platform for the next four years addresses these major and overall challenges: robust welfare mechanisms, sound governance of finance and business, justice, community, solidarity nationally and internationally. In these hunting times I allow myself to call the platform almost an internal path – at least it's a sabla good kidney! Equality is about pay and employment. Many women have poor living conditions because they work in so-called women's homes. In shops that sell building goods, electrical goods or cars, men work in all their jobs. Where clothing and jewellery are sold, women work part-time, and they do not get all the jobs. The right will leave such challenges to the market, but the market does not regulate equivalency and solidarity. It also does not regulate prevention, as the representative Hadia Tajik correctly pointed out. The government's clear signals of acting both in terms of full-time and equal pay are necessary. Children and young people have been given a clear place in our policies for the next four years. We need to have early action and better prevention. That's good. We need more places to study, more training where young people live, and the fight against school dropout are also important measures. A good public common school shall be an arena where learning and friendship can be developed across backgrounds and social and economic divides. In order to achieve all of this, continuing professional-political cooperation is necessary, which will be less of a right-hand side, and increased international commitments. At a time when dialogue and cooperation are more than ever required, the Workers' Party and the Government will strengthen mechanisms that are responsible, create dialogue and development for the common good of climate, business, workers, the community and individuals, at home and outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2149	The Progress Party wants an agricultural policy from political governance to see the farmer as a self-employed person in line with other small business leaders in the country. The farmer’s task is to produce good, healthy and safe food — not to be in the hands of the bureaucrats in the departments. The Progress Party will facilitate food production, not a system of community gardeners. Norwegian farmers need to have a simpler regulatory framework to deal with and to a greater extent to be released from public governance. The work on simplifying and modifying agriculture has stopped completely with the red-green government. The Progress Party believes that it is time for the government to show the power of action and give farmers the opportunity to decide for themselves how they will operate their own business. It must be a paradox that since 2000, over 20 000 fewer farmers have been in Norway, while production has actually increased. It is also a paradox that, with the Central Party in government, the closure of Norwegian agriculture has reached new heights. The party of progress is accused of being the biggest threat to Norwegian agriculture, but in practice we have seen that the red-green government, with the centre party at the head, has almost started the liquidation and closure of almost all Norwegian farmers. The progress party is concerned that we need to get a review and a change of the law, and it's important that it comes up. Today it is only on paper that the farmer himself can control his own land. All farmers have noticed that in practice it is the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Agriculture and the authorities who decide how to use the land, not the farmer himself. It is time that the farmer himself got something he should have said. The Party will implement the full freedom of ownership and production of food producers. The need for the current system of aid schemes will gradually be reduced. We will also introduce compensation that will support those who will be adversely affected by changes in agricultural policy for a period of time. We also believe that conversion measures must be implemented for those who want to produce new industries in agriculture and market their output. With the Progress Party in government, Norwegian farmers would receive a significant tax relief. Norwegian industry can control one of the biggest crises in the country's history. The government has not understood that their job is to stimulate increased value creation in business. The only thing that the Soria Moria II statement focuses on is a new ownership message that focuses on corporate social responsibility for state-owned enterprises. What does the government actually want Stoltenberg to do to stabilise the framework conditions for private business? We haven't seen much of that in the Soria Moria II statement. Unfortunately, this leads to less long-term thinking and value creation, and we need to improve framework conditions and strengthen infrastructure so that Norway, as a high-cost country, is able to compete against the rest of the world. When we see that Norsk Hydro is moving departments to Qatar, it is, among other things, because Qatar can provide them with a safer and better power agreement that is much more predictable and competitive than we can in Norway, governed by the red-green government. Taking an example from Norway, over 150 people became redundant at Aker Verdal because of the drought. The oil drought struck there as elsewhere in the industry. The Government of Stoltenberg, among others, During the election campaign was just talking and talking and being present at Aker Verdal. It was no less than five ministers and two state secretaries who were present and looked at the problems. It actually reminds me of Norway in 1030, when Olav the Holy One traveled around to sign the country. That's what they were doing in the election campaign – they were supposed to sign the country. No, Norwegian industry doesn't need state councils just talking. Norwegian industry needs action, and it's just the Progress Party that can give. Industry needs good framework conditions, and we can do that. For me, it is a paradox that the government is more concerned with fighting oil exploration outside of Lofoten than with engaging in Norwegian industry, in the fight for jobs, where a new technology is also to be developed. For either the supplier and yard industries need to shift towards renewable technologies, or new opportunities need to be provided in the oil and gas industry. The most sensible thing is a combination solution here. The Progress Party will contribute to partnership between the State and the private sector, where the State helps to stimulate private investors to invest risk capital and skills in new business development. The aim is to strengthen the role of private individuals in Norwegian business – in cooperation with the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2170	The President would point out that it is holding well to call Olav the “Holy One”, not necessarily the “Holy One” at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2173	Norway is a rich country. We are one of the very few countries in the world that have not needed to raise loans in order to get through the financial crisis. It gives us a freedom of action many envy us. However, Norway’s main assets are not oil and gas. Norway's most important asset is people. Labour and competence are the main source of future income. That's why the red-green government has spent the last four years investing in children and in knowledge. And we're going to keep doing that. What each of us can contribute to the community is our most important resource. To bet on good education for all is and will always be one of the most important things that society can do. If we are to ensure future value creation, a profitable business and many skilled companies, we must have a good education system. If we are to have a welfare state in development for the benefit of everyone who needs it, we must also have a good education system. If we are to provide all older people with safe care for the elderly and all children with a good school, we must have competent health workers and schooled teachers. In addition, education and skills development are key to solving many of the problems that are addressed by different parties and many debaters in today's debate. In addition, education is a very important part of the individual’s life. Our path through the education system largely shapes the future of each of us and how we're going to live our lives. No matter how long or short the course of education was, whether you were good at school or not: the schools we went to, the higher education we took, or not took, greatly affects where we end up here in life. That is why it is crucial that the school that starts at the age of six, and that, in any case, lasts a significant part of its life, is as good as possible. Our job as politicians must be to make this way as instructive, as exciting and as evolving as we can. This government is counting on education. We want a whole school day, and that's an end in itself. We will continue to focus on strengthening real science and language, and we will give priority to teaching aid through the SFO. On the other hand, increasing teacher competence is an important key. School management has been underprioritised in the past, and there are many links from the Minister of Education and from the Stortinget to the individual students in each and every classroom. That's why we have to keep going. We need to take action against those who end prematurely, who fall out for various reasons and who are called ‘drop-out’. We need to spend more money on the education sector. Research is the answer to many of the problems we face. There are the answers to how we are to fight diseases we are powerless against. There are the answers to how to make working life work even better and have room for everyone. The financial crisis could have been disastrous if the economy had not evolved since the last time the world saw the financial sector almost collapse. Research is not least the answer to how climate challenges can be addressed. As several speakers have pointed out earlier here today: the threat to climate is the greatest political and scientific challenge of our time. Therefore, it is very important for us to continue stepping up climate research in Norway, as well as all other measures, of course. People have the ability to learn their whole lives. We will therefore facilitate an educational system that stimulates the curiosity of young children. We want to make sure that education continues to stimulate, and that it is instructive and fun in the long run. We want this education to be so that it makes sense to talk about lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2192	The meeting is now suspended. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18 for the continued examination of case No. 1 on today's map. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2224	The president pretends to say it's going to be a long night!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2227	It's always a pleasure to keep the first post after the break. Today's debate will primarily look ahead, mainly to the next year, but since this is the first debate of the throne in a new four-year period, it must be allowed to expect something more long-term as well. Many of the red-green speakers in today's debate have talked about wishes for future welfare and future value creation, but also about climate challenges. The reason why we in Norway today provide more well-being for our inhabitants than many of the countries that are natural to compare with us can roughly be divided into two: one factor is that we have been so fortunate from the natural, or spring, side that we have found and extracted oil on Norwegian continental shelf. The second is that we have a business that in most sectors has very high productivity and competitiveness. In total, these two conditions have enabled us to develop a society that has been identified by the United Nations as the best place to live. However, the situation is now such that we are very dependent on the receipts from the petroleum sector. We will be in the future for many years, but at the same time it is clear that the revenues from the petroleum sector will gradually make up a smaller proportion of the nation's revenues in the future – a trend which will, of course, be greatly enhanced if the important oil resources outside Senja, Lofoten and the West Pole are not exploited. This trend will coincide with the ageing of the population, resulting in a dramatic increase in health and care needs. In total, these trends are a serious challenge for the welfare country. In order not to be too harsh in the future, we need to increase the efficiency of industry and the welfare-producing sectors of the public sector first and foremost. Not only do we need to replace the revenues from the petroleum sector, but we also need to increase the value creation in the rest of society enough to be able to finance the promise in the health and care sector that the future will require of us without jeopardising the welfare of the rest of society. The solution to this does not believe the Progress Party that we can sit here and adopt today. These answers are those who are currently attending primary and secondary schools, who will find out when they will once in the future go from being students to students and researchers in higher education and research institutions. The same applies to climate challenges. How we and the rest of the industrialized world are going to be able to sustain the growth of value creation, but unless carbon emissions, nobody actually has the answer to today. This challenge, too, is that of current and future students and researchers who will hopefully find the answer. I assume that this recognition is a broad consensus in the Norwegian Grand Prix. That's why I was wondering if I heard the Prime Minister's comments today. Innovation and innovation were mentioned in a sub-statement, without any concreteity, nor any vision of how to further develop the knowledge nation of Norway, the very bearer of the future value creation and well-being of our country. When looking at the second Soria-Moria statement, it may not be so strange that the red-greens have not given particular attention to higher education and research. The absence of concrete measures and visions is also overwhelming. The only measures in the education sector as a whole are more school leisure arrangements and the legalisation of several teachers in school. The party considers that both of these measures are not the right way to go. All international studies show that the quality of knowledge providers and school leaders is important, not the quantity. In the case of higher education, it is with great wonder that I note that a necessary boost in the purchasing power of students is once again neglected, a promise that could clearly be an important contribution to increasing the study rate for many students. I understand that SV cannot win all the games where SV and the Workers' Party disagree, but how SV manages to lose a fight where SV and the Workers' Party before the election was agreed, I do not understand. So the government says they're going to increase the basic appropriations for higher education. It was supposed to be missing, too. The government assumes that the number of students in the period will increase from 220,000 to 300,000. The question that so far, both in this debate and in the Soria Moria Declaration, remains unanswered is whether, in addition, the budgets will enable a completely necessary level of quality for higher education. The alternative to this increase is that universities and colleges either have to cut further in the quality of education or at the research they provide today. Norway cannot afford to solve today’s and future challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2255	Because all people are born different with different desires and needs, the freedom to choose how to live one's life is important to the Right. The feeling of freedom can be so lacking, but the freedom many value in everyday life, for example, is. the freedom to choose the assignment of their children and to choose which school to attend. Freedom is closely linked to responsibility. In the Right we have faith that the good life is followed up by responsibility for our own lives. We all agree that the children are the parents' foremost and greatest responsibility in life. We in the right are committed to ensuring that the parents retain that responsibility. The reality for families is that everyday life is experienced differently. This is precisely why the challenges of everyday life for the different families must be important in laying the framework for the family policy of the future. In this period, the right will work for families to have an increased degree of freedom of choice, which means that we will make sure that the parents themselves are going to figure out how to distribute the maternity leave, and we will, of course, also secure the cash support. The task of the state is not to take responsibility for everyone at all times, but to take responsibility for those who really need it the most. If the individual's freedom is to be safeguarded, we need the state to protect us from abuse and guarantee our fundamental needs. The welfare state is our common insurance. The State shall contribute when individuals and the family are unable to carry out their own welfare tasks. It's not going to replace the well-being we can create ourselves. The recent newspaper headline on child protection matters is a serious warning to us who are sitting on the Stortinget. It is a warning that all the children who are out there, those who grow up in homes with psychiatry, with violence and with intoxication – the weakest of the weakest – who have failed the state. Obviously, the welfare state's insurance does not cover these children. Remedying in that failure must obviously be one of the most important tasks facing this big business over the next four years. I hope and believe that all the parties together can stand up for these children. But I still have to admit that I'm a little in doubt if that will happen, because after reading Soria Mora II you can't avoid recording the Government's zeal after regulating all parts of the children's growth. At the same time, when you fail the children who need it the most, the eagerness after a government election of all the wealthy children seems quite so strange. It must be possible not to push the state on all the parents and all the families who want the least involvement from the state, and rather to be there for those who need it the most. When I read the government statement and especially the family policy, it was a slogan from the Young Right that was quite clear to me, namely the ‘Borders of Policy’. That slogan is more topical than ever because politics is also about setting policy boundaries. As politicians, we should not interfere – no, rather, on the contrary. Our task is to give the citizens the freedom to live a life they want and to assist them to the extent possible. Politics is not just to have power, but actually to limit power. You can't read that out of this platform. On the other hand, it may appear that more and more intervention is being undertaken through regulation and state interference at all levels, such as: the cash support and the political measures to ensure that all children go to kindergarten, the birth rate that eats of that part of the leave that parents can freely afford today, and as we read Soria Moria II, the road is also not long to a compulsory kindergarten scheme. All these conditions help to disincentive parents to their children. It undermines human trust, and it contributes to a shift of responsibility from citizen to state. This is, in the Right's view, an unfortunate development, where belief in mastering one's own life is constantly weakening, the dependence of the state is increasing, and a more streamlined society is developing. It would have been interesting if the government parties in this debate were able to clarify whether families still have responsibility for their children, or whether we are now rapidly approaching the governmentization of childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2281	Norway is a good country to live in. I am proud of our solidarity model of society, and I am motivated to further develop the welfare society through my role as a newly elected representative of big business. I've been so lucky to be on the Justice Committee, and I'm not quite sure if it's Aunt Sofie or Chief Bastian who's my model, but it's probably going to be a combination. One of the most important things for us in the government parties is to provide security. Crime creates insecurity. The government has therefore launched a series of measures to combat crime, and more will come in the period we have just begun. I am very pleased with the efforts of our Minister of Justice. In four years he has shown an impressive force of action and implemented measures that contribute to greater security for the most people. He has, among other things, provided a record extension of the number of posts in police training. In 2003, 240 students were admitted, with a total of 720 in 2010. There are also 460 civilian posts which release large resources for more direct police work. The working time contract with the police is in addition 230 years’ work. These measures will give citizens more visible and effective police. It is very important that resources benefit the whole country. In More and Romesdal we now experience a difficult situation. The police officer in the North Moravia and Romesdal districts is proposing the closure of the Länsmannskontoret in order to comply with the budget. This means that large rural municipalities and Norway’s fourth largest island, Smøla — which otherwise does not have continental connections — can remain standing without a lenner’s office. The population feels that security is getting worse. I believe that people living in the districts should have a police as accessible as in the cities. The Progress Party has a simple solution to crime in Norway. The solution includes: stricter penalties. This is an easy policy and will not lead to less crime. On the contrary, professionals claim that the policies of the Progress Party will lead to more drug abuse, more violence, more settlements and longer settlement queues. Higher speed limits and the impoverishment of the UP will also result in more road accidents. The approach of the government parties is much more holistic. We will prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate more. Of course, it is important that crimes are solved as quickly as possible, and those who carry out the criminal acts are punished as deserved. It's obvious. It is also important that the victims and their relatives be taken seriously. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of taking seriously the reporting children and young people. The legal security of the victims must always be ensured. I am particularly proud of the Minister of Justice for the fight against violence in close relations. The Great Mountain has given hope to those who are subjected to violence in the world to get out of the abuse. Several municipalities have developed their own local action plans against violence in close relationships. This is important both to prevent and help those who are subjected to violence within the four walls of the house. One of the biggest challenges in the fight against crime is to ensure that those who have served their punishment do not commit new criminal acts. It is therefore essential that criminal justice is of high quality, so that the offenders can function as equivalent citizens once they have served their sentence. This will be a particularly important area of commitment for the Government in the forthcoming enlargement period. We know that about 60 pst. Of those in prison, there is a drug problem. It is incomprehensible that there are drugs in prisons. This, of course, makes it difficult to be drug free, and many of those in prison do not have any work or housing either. Unfortunately, several of these have experienced difficult growth conditions. To really get rid of crime, prevention is the most important thing. Young people must not grow up with parents who are rushing, engaging in violence or miscarriage. We have to make sure that as little as possible drops out of high school. We have to make sure that the housing market is accessible to everyone. We need to help the young and the young who are struggling with mental problems or have a drug problem as early as possible. If we succeed in preventive policy, we avoid many ports in criminal environments. No one wants to be a criminal. Everyone wants to live good lives with work, housing and family. I really look forward to being involved in shaping this policy area over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2311	The scope of the workline is known from the welfare and work debate. In the future, we have to supplement it with the ‘expansive line’. The challenge line means that all people must have access to the knowledge and competences they need. Why is it so important? Well, first of all, no other OECD country has so few positions and functions in society for unskilled, i.e. for those with less than advanced challenges. Of all the countries in the OECD region, we simply have that most skilled working life. Secondly, not getting the challenge makes a lot of possibilities disappear. It's part of creating social differences. If we look at young people who have completed secondary education, there is almost no one outside work or challenge between the ages of 20 and 24. Of those who have dropped out of the secondary school, however, one in four 20-24-year-olds is without work or challenge – one in four. I was not long ago at Ullersmo prison. There's over 80 pst. of the inserted drops out of the continuing school. That's what it's all about for too many people. And thirdly, knowledge and competence have a very high self-esteem, a great value in the joy of learning and knowing things, the value it has for us to be a formed and enlightened society, or to get the cultural experiences that school and knowledge contribute to creating, or, not least, the major societal challenges, the climate problems, the supply of enough water in the world, where knowledge is crucial to bring it about. These are the challenges that Soria Moria II and the government platform are responding to. Let me come with three main devices. The first is what I would call premature effort. Early effort means giving all the opportunity to be creative in getting knowledge. But it also means preventing – or as the slogan to the night term, as I thought, is a good expression to prevent: «We were there when it did not happen», thus preventing things from going wrong. Prevention or early intervention is about kindergarten. Now we've had five years of full expansion. Now we're going to have five years of bet on quality and content in kindergartens. These include the quality of the teachers in the school, the training of teachers in order to get skilled teachers and continuing training, and the provision of enough teachers. No one who is serious about challenge can choose either many enough or good enough teachers in school. Fourthly, this is about the school leisure arrangements. We now know from research that both kindergarten and SFO are important for how elephants do it at school. Then we have to make sure that everyone has access to the quality institutions at a reasonable price. Then there's the second big challenge, which is disqualification in continuing school. I think it's going to be one of the biggest societal challenges we have to address in the next decade. Throughout Europe, the decline in secondary schools is too high. We know that the early effort, that the elephants bring with them knowledge from the base ball, is important. However, we also need to address youth – provide better advice, aim to introduce a practical selection subject, with which we have now seen attempts, not least a few more apprenticeships, assess innovation in the entire apprenticeship system and have more practice in the professional field in the further education and training sector, where non-response is greatest. So it's about higher education and research and adult education, which is so important to any community. There's a lot of talk about getting an older wave in the years to come. But we might as well talk about a youth wave, because there's now a lot of youth coal. There's going to be more looking for a higher challenge. They must get a good offer. The government platform also says that we should strengthen the basics of the higher education institutions and universities in the years to come, so that we can improve the quality there. And then we're going to continue our research efforts, both in terms of resources and quality. We also need to bet on post- and post-exploitation in different ways, including: in working life. We now see that strengthening basic labour skills has been very important, and that it is used in many Norwegian companies. The representative, Siv Jensen, asked earlier in the debate on whether the welfare state should continue to espouse. Unlike the representative, Siv Jensen, I am in favour of a larger and better welfare state in the future. But not least I'm for it because challenge is also the basis of future welfare and value creation. It's an investment when we spend more money to bet on better challenges in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2337	Let me start by thanking the Council of States for at least approaching some concrete visions for the four-year period that he might now be managing. But I feel that there is a slight misunderstanding between what is being said and what is being done. With four years of Swedish State Council in this field, the drop-out in high school is still very high, and I fully agree that what has happened does not give reason to rest, either on their laurels or otherwise. It is clearly an important field that we have to work together to turn around. State councils are talking about practical subjects in secondary school that will reduce the disqualification into higher education. In recent years, however, there has been a strong theorization of the occupations, where non-response is greatest. Isn't it time to discuss whether to reduce the theoretization of the professions, just to avoid increased drop-outs in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2342	In approx. 15 years we have had relatively stable numbers for non-response in continuing school. Last year we've seen a slight decline, just as we've seen a slight rise in Norway's scorar on international research that measures basic skills -- here mathematics and real science. In my view, the representative still has a good question: how are we going to make sure that the vocational training, the vocational training, meet the students who learn the most from practice? I think the answer is, we have to have clear requirements for basic knowledge. Everyone must be able to Norwegian, math and English and have social skills. But what we're doing now is we're going through the curriculum and we're going to see if they can be more practical, that we're going to open up a more practical race, that some elephants can have, and that's how we're starting to think about it. It might have been done before, but now we've at least started doing what we see the direction works. Many places are the elephants that are now completing because of that thought, and we're going to carry on with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2347	Small municipalities often struggle with teacher recruitment. Now, a study from the Education Directorate shows that the same municipalities are much less planning to use the results of national tests to improve the school. Does the Minister of Education, like the Right, see the danger that this will lead to poorer training provision for pupils in small municipalities? And what will the Council of State actually do to counteract a development in which out-of-country nationals become losers in School-Norway because their home municipalities do not have the power to follow up school and play the role of school owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2352	I'm just going to nuance the image a little by saying that also most students in small municipalities, for example. In Troms County, learning a lot from school and doing it well, and that when we look at national tests and compare with the municipality size, there is no clear context. However, I am particularly concerned about the support apparatus and the recruitment of competent teachers in many small municipalities. This is one of the reasons why we in Stortinget have not long agreed that all municipalities should have a quality report on the state of key factors in their municipality, which should be discussed and followed up. We've also started a work that's got a lot of attention lately, with a large national 'guidance corps' that should be able to follow up municipalities that are particularly tired of them not having enough skills themselves, and tired of developing a good enough school. It's among the measures we've already seen. Then I can promise that I will also consider going into the investigation that has been known today, and see if there is a need for further follow-up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2358	The election campaign promised all three government parties that it would now be 11 months' study funding. It's not easy to save in study time, and when the last payment comes in May and the pay doesn't come until July, it's getting tight times. The council stated in its statement that it is important to get to the whole education line, and we also heard that he said in the election campaign that he would be a personal guarantor that the eleventh month would come into place. Then I'm probably a little afraid that the Natteravn quotation that the Council of State used will be used here: "We weren't there." For how in every day was it possible to negotiate the eleventh month of study funding when all three parties agreed? And how does it feel when SV loses things that the others are against, but also loses things that the others agree with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2363	Of course, the question of 11 months of study support was raised in the government negotiations, and the conclusion is that the Soria Moria Declaration does not say that we should do this. What is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration is a few things to be said, but, to a large extent, formulations on the direction of policy. That doesn't mean it's not going to happen, but that means that there was no consensus that it was going to be put there. On the other hand, there was agreement to give priority to some other aspects of higher education, such as the need for basic licences to increase, student numbers, research, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2368	I'd like to pursue the same case, because this means that the government didn't have time to write it – they would give priority to space for other things, but they can do it. The interesting thing here is that the Council of State has gone to the choice of being a guarantor of this. Then the question is, is the Council of State still the guarantor that this will be implemented in this government, or is there a guarantee that has passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2373	I'm for everything that's in SV's game program, like this point. But now we have negotiated a government platform that is what we promise the voters to do, the goals we have chosen, and within higher education there was a broad consensus that the main priorities were a strengthening of the basics of higher education, which is very important – also for the students, this is something they have been very busy about – and that we are forced to increase the number of places of study in the years to come, because there are going to be a lot more students. More things within higher education have been added. Then I'm not going to rule out that things are going to happen in this area too, but it's not taken into account in what there's unity between the three parties in Soria Moria about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2378	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is Laila Marie Reiertsen, who has a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2383	As a nurse, I had not believed that in 2009 I would be standing here on the Stortinget's armchair and talk about equal pay. For 20 years this theme has been tried. The only thing that has been achieved is to stand on the ground -- unfortunately. In Soria Moria II we see again that equal pay has got its mention, but unfortunately without any amount of money. The only thing that says, is that this gets the parties to take care of, either one is in the LO or in the UNIO. So you have to start using forces in the different associations on how to do this and how much each group should have. Don't we have enough evidence that the parties can't do this? It's been trying out for decades, and it's almost a tradition not to be able to do it. And besides, does one not talk enough and disclaim responsibility long enough when it concerns these groups, who are doing such a great job in Health-Noreg, an effort that is also to be shown in income, not only in praiseful words? Progress party wants action. We've tried before. I refer to the proposal by the representative Siv Jensen in May of this year, which unfortunately was voted down. I'm sorry we still haven't been able to get anything in place. It is not surprising that a person who works in the nursing and nursing profession misses the belief both in politicians and in the systems. And don't be surprised that many people are well off their profession in the near future to get better coverage in other jobs. Nor can one complain that a person does not have enough hands in the care sector in the years to come – thank you for your responsibility and for your good. If there's something Norway needs in the years to come, there's just these added to this sector. Then not all the world has time to go round in this important area. Recruitment tools actually have to contain something, and one of the most important keywords here is actually pay. Why is it so difficult for those who work with a sick person to obtain pay changes from the Government? We experienced it in 2000 and 2001 for the teachers, and recently in 2009 for the police. But this applies to a lot of women, who from all quarters, verbally, are said to be doing a lot of work, and they don't seem to be being treated like that. It's a shame that one still doesn't want to put equal pay more on the agenda than in some words in Soria Moria II, and that one gives the other the task of solving something where the economy at all isn't mentioned. I see, of course, that no trade unions can then complain afterwards, when one is to sit with responsibility for the distribution of wages and salaries, if they come then, to the main decision in 2010... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2392	Enterprise policy is an important pillar of value creation and high employment and is central to the Labour Party's policy. We have experienced and experienced strong changes in global markets. A live market on one day may be an end of the market on the next. Such changes present very special challenges to industrial policy. Unemployment in the euro area rose to 9.4 pst. of June. It is suggested that in 2011 it could be a total of 11.5 pst. in the euro zone. When unemployment in Norway has been around 3 p.m., it is due to several factors. We have a great oil wealth we have now allowed ourselves to use more of because we have been conducting a responsible economic policy for several years. The many and good measures taken by the Government to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis have been more extensive than in other countries. The government has shown action and the measures are effective. Low unemployment is also a strong expression of a social model that facilitates a robust business life where the ability to adapt and will is high. A Fafo report that came earlier this fall points precisely to the Norwegian model of society and corporate democracy when explaining why the consequences of the financial crisis have become less here than in other countries. The statistics show that from 2005 to 2009, more than ten times as many jobs were created as in the previous four-year period. We have to go all the way back to the 1950s to find a larger increase than this growth. Four out of five new jobs came in private business. Overall, this demonstrates that the soundness and effectiveness of the Norwegian economy and business life are good, and actually kills most attacks on today’s government opposition have joined this debate. I think it is important to stress that the financial crisis will still affect us. As the Prime Minister said in his speech, we must be prepared that businesses are still being closed down and that jobs can be lost. We know that financial markets and institutions are more difficult to reach today than anything over a year ago. We know that there are good nutrition projects that have difficulties in finding risk capital. It is therefore essential for the Government to assess continuously, in dialogue with the enterprises themselves, the necessary measures to remedy the situation. We will therefore focus on good funding and support schemes. The industrial policy instrument must be flexible and meet the needs of industry. We need to focus even more on education, industrial research and development of competences. This is central to the Government’s industrial policy. The government’s policy platform provides the basis for a broad and comprehensive business and innovation policy, in which good ideas and willingness to change are to be developed. Another important focus area is the export-oriented industry and service providers. These form a major part of employment and value added. Many of these enterprises are world leaders in their fields. A safe and predictable economic and income policy will be one of the most important measures to further develop export-oriented industries. The opposition has today tried to produce the Government’s industrial policy contributions such as increased administrative burdens, taxes and taxes. Yes, even the Right Minister of Enterprise was so bold that he suggested that there had been a lack of will for four years to discuss how values are created. I was a little surprised by that claim, but after five minutes I understood why. Right-wing industrial policy was so narrowed by the post that there was only one focus area left, namely tax. Yeah, pretty much no tax, that's what we heard. This is going to be a bit of an input into a theme about how values are created. Of course, the opposition's opinions so far in this debate on industrial policy have no basis in reality. In today's edition of Today's Business, we can also read that optimism not only appears to be back in Norwegian business, it is prevailing in Norwegian business. The government’s policy is based on community, value creation and justice, and an enterprise policy is to be pursued that facilitates an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business throughout the country. In other words, we base the whole of our industrial policy. I look forward to the fact that from the arenas of the Storting and the arena of the Business Committee, we are also going to do our part to help support this, so that we can continue the upturn we are now seeing trends, thus ensuring profitable businesses and increasing value creation over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2424	Today's debate of the throne gives you the concept of "honoring speech" almost a new dimension. It certainly deserves a new chapter in international political context, when we get from the representatives of the government parties the presentation and mentions of government councils that they do a job in most areas that almost none, without comparison, could be able to do in the same way. They may not say so much about the fact that all this shelf that comes to their end is financed by oil fields in Norway that two of the three government parties have almost systematically worked against it being extracted from. I think we should take this debate a little more seriously when we look at the challenges that the nation is facing in the future, unless oil and gas-financed revenues are to lubricate the state apparatus at the same pace as it has done so far. And there's a lot of evidence that it's not where to pick up your future income. When you can be so bold as to say that the only point that the Right has when we talk about industrial policy is the tax model and tax policy, you certainly haven't gotten very much involved in Norwegian policy over the last fifty years. It might be too much to think that that would be the case, but I just had to mention it. What I was really going to talk about is Norwegian defence policy, which deserves much, much more attention, a topic that during the election campaign was hardly mentioned as an area among the challenges we face. It's a situation that is characterized by a great deal of consensus. There is no doubt, even in the throne, that the government has ambitions to be able to meet the long-term plan of defence. That is also reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration. Unfortunately, this is a long-term plan that an overall opposition voted against. The fears expressed by the opposition parties have unfortunately proved to be valid, because there has been a situation of under-financing in relation to the situation in which the defence is set to evolve from day to day. But it is very positive to say about Norwegian defence policy, and the degree of consensus – consensus – about long-termity goes like a red thread through this whole plan and to the extent that most of the important questions about Norwegian defence policy. It is clear that the need for adaptability, efficiency and the creation of a modern defence based on the tasks of defence has not diminished. It's been a lot, a lot bigger than it's been in a lot of years -- let me say almost ten years. This applies to foreign operations, the situation in Afghanistan, where the Government Declaration expresses itself so cryptically that both the SV and the Workers' Party can take the formulations into account for their vision. That may not be what will create the great long-term and stability, but we will have ample opportunity to get back to this question. A more self-confident, a more visible Russia we have around us. We have a technology challenge about the concept of ‘security policy’, which is the everyday life around us also in Norway, which means that defence has a demanding time ahead, and where funding is going to be a keyword. There is a lack of predictability. The National Audit Office's report, which was thoroughly dealt with in the Stortinge less than a year ago, has revealed that the operational capacity, the preparedness, has fallen for each of the last few years we have had a red-green government. This is not satisfactory and, at least, it does not harmonize with the objective of the long-term plan to be achieved and funded in 2012. Because we have a financial assumption, and we have a report from the National Auditor that only documents and illustrates that so far this has not been possible. The National Audit Office's report harmonizes quite well with the reports we get from people with their shoes on in Defense, which refers to fewer sailing days, less practice, fewer flying hours, etc. etc., which makes us less able to achieve the objectives we have set, namely that the long-term plan should be met in 2012. The right has great ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian defense, and we're going to follow. We are expected to see if what is said in the throne speech about funding will come into place tomorrow. We're waiting in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2447	Developments in the north and the Arctic provide challenges and opportunities. Therefore, the northern regions are the main strategic focus of the Government in foreign policy and will also contribute to positive development in the northernmost areas. The Government Platform points out that the Government will base its Northern Region policy on the Northern Region Strategy ‘New building blocks in the North’. In particular, the centre is concerned that the Northern Region Strategy should also focus on the development of economic activity on land. The presence of defence in the northern regions through all areas of defence shall be increased as part of the Northern Region Strategy. In addition to the fact that the Coast Guard is going to sail more north, the presence of the navy in the north must also be increased as a preventive measure and clarification of Norway’s area of interest. Coastal preparedness shall also be a high priority. The Government Platform refers to the fact that the Government will assess additional units and functions that can be located to operational units outside the country in order to further strengthen the areas of competence of the Defence. For the development of industry in the north, the provision of air routes is of particular importance. The centre party will work to improve supply in areas with special distance challenges, in particular in North Norway. The Government Platform notes that the Government will further develop Norway as a travel-life destination and strengthen its brand construction and marketing efforts. The tourism industry must be seen in the context of other important policies such as culture, agriculture, transport and rural policy. Here, too, the Hurtigruten is important. Northern Norway has unique travel activities and must be given the opportunity to unlock its potential. This is a central area for industrial development on land in the north. In the Center Party, we look forward to further investment in this area. I think it is particularly important to focus on measures to get more foreign tourists to North Norway. It is important that industry has received considerable attention in the government platform and that the Government will facilitate long-term access to power for industry under competitive conditions, inter alia. through a guarantee scheme for long-term power contracts and public support for industrial energy recovery. This is important in order to realise the great potential of this part of business. In the government platform between red-green batches, it is stated that the Government will facilitate an innovative supplier industry in the petroleum industry. In the case of the Centre Party, the aim is for new projects to provide regional ring-effects by contributing to the development of industry and the development of skills at local and regional level, inter alia. through the location of the operational organisations. No petroleum activity outside the Lofoten and the Western Seabed will be opened during this large-scale period. The Government Platform points out that the Government will decide whether to conduct an impact assessment on petroleum activities in the context of the 2010 revision of the management plan. The fishing industry is the bearer of coastal development. It is therefore important to provide for a varied fishing fleet and a fair distribution of the fishing resources contributing to activity and employment across the coast, which can ensure a stable supply of raw material to industry throughout the year. The centre party is particularly concerned with the preservation of the locally owned companies in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. It is important to focus on increasing the value creation of the marine food industry through better interaction across the whole value chain. I believe that the challenges in the fishing industry in North Norway in the last year underline the importance of this, and the Centre Party is committed to helping to find solutions to these challenges. Agriculture also plays an important role in housing and employment. I look forward to the development of my own big business message with a view to laying the foundations for a forward-looking agricultural and food policy. I also look forward to working with this message. In particular, the Centre is committed to further developing the income and welfare policy of agriculture from the previous period and to ensuring agriculture with a varied use structure across the country through a clear rural profile. The centre party looks forward to a change in predator policy that can contribute to more efficient pest extraction. It is important to stress that there should be no predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and the calving area for pure. I am pleased that the northern regions have received considerable attention in the government statement. And I look forward to working so that the North Region bet will place even more emphasis on industrial development on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2481	For us who live in District Norway, the four years we've been behind with the red-green government have been an uphill journey. There has become more focus on matters and industries that are important in the districts. The focus has been on increasing the value of fish resources on land and on increasing the profitability of agriculture. There is more money for municipalities and county councils, and a journey promise has been made to better bind the country together. This has been a medicine that works, and therefore it is positive for the districts that the red-green government continues. In the Soria Moria II Declaration and in the Common Era, it is therefore a continuation of the policy of the last few years that is the main focus, with some changes in dosage in some areas. For the Workers' Party, it is an objective that it should live in people throughout the country. We'll help maintain the decentralised housing pattern. But it is people who decide where they want to live their lives. That is why we need to pursue a policy that makes it attractive for many of us to live in the districts. Firstly, there must be jobs. Working for everyone – across the country – is therefore an important focus. We have an instrument that sets up, including for the district workplaces. That the government will continue to invest in areas where we have special prerequisites for being good, namely energy and the environment, travel, marine and maritime sectors, is good news. It is in these areas that the districts have the great potential, and it is also in the districts that these industries have a great deal to do with them. In addition to having these areas as bets, it is important to focus on entrepreneurship and women’s jobs – entrepreneurship because we need to create more of our own jobs and be entrepreneurs, women’s jobs because there needs to be work for both sexes. There has been an offensive agricultural policy in the last four years that has reversed the negative development in which the gap between the incomes of farmers and other groups has increased. This work will now be continued. Agriculture is important, not only to maintain a country's livelihood, but also to produce food for an ever-increasing population of the world. In parts of the country, we have lived a long time with an ever-growing predatory population. There have been conflicts and discussions, not if we're going to have predators, but how many we're going to have. There has been a strong focus on the conflicts between predators and sheep or domestic animals. The health study in the North Trøndelag has shown that the quality of life of many people is weakened by the closeness of predators. Therefore, it is good that the Government will review the stock targets for wolf and bear and invite the Stortinget to a broad settlement on new stock targets. It is also positive that the Soria Moria II declaration states that there should be a low threshold to remove male bears that have done damage. This has been a major problem in the areas where it is intended to be low inside. In order for the aquaculture industry in Trøndelag to export salmon to Europe or the furniture industry in the West to have its products on the market, we depend entirely on good transport solutions. In the previous period, the red-green majority exceeded the national transport plan. Now it's signaled the journey promise of the times, when an additional 100 billion are to be added over the next ten years. This is positive, and this is necessary. This will be the largest increase in the budget for transport in the time being. That the opposition is still going to overwhelm us in the coming period, I am not in doubt about it. But then it's good to remember that none of today's opposition parties have been close to fulfilling their national transport plan once they've been in position. This is also known by the voters, and therefore the election campaign did not take place. A major effort on roads in the districts will be positive for businesses and residents. This will largely apply to other national roads, which will be transferred from 1 January to the counties and become the new county roads. Our task in Stortinget is to ensure that enough money is transferred to the county councils so that they are able to handle this task in a good way. The zero vision, the desire for a future without fatal and severe damage to traffic, shall govern all parts of the transport sector. This must be our most important guide star. Traffic safety must have a primary focus both in the districts and in the central districts. Therefore it is important to build better and safer roads. But it is also important to continue working to get more goods across from road to sea. For this reason, it is important to strengthen rail investment in order to increase rail freight transport, but also to allow more people to choose trains instead of cars. This is good district policy, it is good transport policy, and it is good climate policy. The Labour Party's policy is a policy of positive development throughout the country, based on Community solutions. Our old slogan «By and land hand in hand» also works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2509	I'm not going to hide that I really wanted to get into the Stortinget. It's a patch on the wound to be a representative for the first two weeks of the staging session. Now it doesn't last for two weeks on the Stortingen to sneak up on the Stortingen or introduce so-called radical Islam, so old and new representatives from Oslo and Buskerud should be calmed down. But it is nevertheless a great privilege to be able to stand here today and speak directly to the National Assembly – at least to those who are here. I am happy and not a little humble because I have had this opportunity. Norway is a good country to live in, but it does not mean that everyone is well. This does not mean that today’s solutions and offers cannot be made better or organised in another way. Because of my background, I am particularly concerned about the living conditions of minorities in Norway. Too many so-called immigrant children grow up in poverty. A recent Fafo report shows that every third immigrant child in Norway with a non-Western background lives in households with income below the poverty line. Up towards 60 pst. of so-called "migrant boys" are at risk of not completing secondary school. Otherwise, the rate of non-response is 30. Furthermore, the involvement of non-Western immigrant women in the labour market is not proportional to the number of people who actually live and live here. What values does this promote? I know what it means to have a parent who is illiterate. My own mother is. But I know it's useful to go to school. It is useful to work, and it is useful to take a roof and reach for something. It's useful to talk about issues like corporate violence and equality. The knowledge we have about the adverse effects of family violence must be shared with immigrants. It doesn't keep saying, "It's forbidden to hit." Behaviour can change, but only if we make a commitment. We cannot continue to betray the children living below the poverty line. What odds are we going to give 8 pst? by the children and every three non-western immigrant children? I hope we can really do something about this. I hope you can do something about this. We have to take a force to equalize immigrant women. Mahatma Gandhi said: If you train a man, you have trained a man, but if you train a woman, you train the whole family. If the immigrant woman becomes independent, the whole family will be equalised and demand freedom from oppression, coercion and sexual mutilation. One of the most important things we can do to equalise non-Western immigrant women is to get women to work. This may involve challenges that will require both political and practical organisation. The Nobel Committee has praised the visions of President Obama – this for his expressed will to disarmament, the will to dialogue with the Muslim world and the ability to put the environmental issue on the agenda. The richest country in the world must also have some visions. We have a special responsibility, responsibility for combating global poverty and responsibility for shifting our energy consumption – a responsibility we can't just buy from within ourselves. The world's richest country must go ahead and also take a significant cut at home, we must have credibility at all in international climate negotiations. I am very disappointed with the environmental chapter in Soria Moria II. SV negotiated their asylum policy, but they have had disappointing little more concrete in environmental policy. I am not impressed that the Norwegian climate reductions are sharpened from 30 pst. to 40 p.m., when they will be mainly carried out through increased purchases of allowances and several measures abroad. I am disappointed that it is not submitted to a binding and comprehensive conversion. Soria Moria II had benefited from Left's tax policy, which would have made working and investing in Norwegian businesses and jobs more profitable, and less profitable with environmentally hostile consumption and pollution. Norway alone cannot save the world. However, Norway can do much to help many. We can help people in the next round to help themselves. All of us can't do everything, but we can all do a little bit. Every year, 2 million people die of malaria, of which 75 are. is a child in Africa. 1.2 billion of the world's population live in absolute poverty, and over 800 million people suffer from hunger and malnutrition. If we first talk about people most, it's a relatively marginal problem that you can't get alcohol at Norwegian gas stations – most people don't have access to clean water and electricity. If we're going to do something to help most people, we have to help develop fair trade. The population of developing countries must be given access to global markets and the possibility of emigration. We need to reduce trade barriers and trade distorting subsidies that favour rich countries. This was my first, but hopefully not the last opportunity to keep posts in Stortinget. I hope that the Stortinget has a composition that recognises the integration challenges, Norway's responsibility in the fight against poverty and understands the scale of the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2538	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2541	The representative Raja focused on integration. One of the key prerequisites for participation in Norwegian society is to master Norwegian. This is also very central to participation in the labour market, which is very important for combating poverty. When children can't Norwegian when they start school, it makes these kids get a far heavier starting point for the rest of their lives than they need. We know that foreign-language children have a lot of good things to do when they go to kindergarten, where they learn the language. We also know that within the immigrant group there are a lot of people who choose cash support instead of kindergarten. The left has been the guarantor of the cash support all the way. How does the representative Raja feel about the cash support? Does he mean that it counteracts integration, as I point out here, or is he satisfied with the scheme and goes with joy into the range of left-hand guarantors in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2548	It's a very important issue that the representative addresses. I am very concerned that immigrant children learn Norwegian before they start school. Now it is a fact that the cash support only applies until the age of 3. It's not that you get kindergarten, or that the immigrant parents will get kindergarten for the children afterwards. Then you have to stimulate in another way. As I was just about to say, every third immigrant child lives below the poverty line. I think you should look at the maximum price that the representative's party has been introducing. It has led to the rich paying less, while those who have at least before end up paying more. I want to have free core time in kindergarten. That's my game for. I'm glad we have to keep going. I am also in charge of language teaching for all four-year-olds, so that if you have poor Norwegian skills, you should have free language training, so that you are well equipped to attend Norwegian school when you meet the first day of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2553	In the election campaign, the representative Raja was quite loud, among others. in the debate on Norwegian integration policy. A number of suggestions were made from his side. Some of these proposals are obviously clearly contrary to what is left-hand-reading policy. Some suggestions were even sensible. But there will be something special going on here in the United Kingdom when a proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right goes in to introduce the language and knowledge tests by Norwegian citizenship and the Left vote against it, while candidate Abid Raja is in favour of it in Norwegian media. My question is this: Will the Left now change its integration policy? Is it the case that the new integration policy proposed by Raja during the election campaign will apply to the Left over the next four years? Has Sponheim been sidelined in its integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2560	Now, as Per-Willy Amundsen was in, you say a lot strangely in the election campaign. Per-Willy Amundsen sees the splint in the eye of others, but not the beam in his own. For information purposes only, the Left did not vote against the proposal. You voted to send this back, so that it could be investigated better. If the representative read the newspapers carefully, and I am absolutely sure that the representative did, he also realized that Sponheim had the sense of the proposal I launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2567	Representative Abid Raja has been running a very active campaign. He has, among other things, raised several important and useful debates on integration. In addition, he launched on behalf of the Left a number of concrete proposals, including: one on state-funded imams — allegedly a precise measure to prevent family violence and other crime. In the view of the Workers' Party, this direct link between religion – or more specifically one particular religion – is unfortunate and a contribution to stigmatising Muslims in Norway. I suppose Left will not base its integration policy on an assumption that Muslim families have more respect for religion than for Norwegian law. My question is: will the Left propose state-funded imams here in the Storting, and does the representative see any unfortunate aspects of linking religion and crime in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2572	I thank you for the praise I have had an active election campaign, and raised important issues. That's what I've been trying to do throughout the campaign, and I'm going to continue to do to the extent that I'm here and to the extent that I'm not here too. In the case of state-funded imams, if the representative Haugli had been at some of the dialogue meetings he has mentioned as a ‘freak show’, he would have realised that I was not talking about state-funded imams. I talked about increasing support for the Islamic Council, so that they, for example. may employ several persons who can enter the closed environments, to whom unfortunately not all of the Stortinge have access. The most important thing for me is that we are able to prevent coercion, sexual mutilation, female oppression, violence against children, prevent radical Islam, or radical Islamism, which is the phenomenon that the representative's party colleague had not brought about. The most important thing for me is that the job is done. If this can be done by giving more funds to the Islamic Council, I think that is a good proposal. I haven't talked about state-funded imams.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2579	I would like to thank the representative, Abid Raja, for a very committed and wise contribution. Should the representative be allowed to make more such contributions during this downtime period. I really want that, because the theme of inclusion really needs such a wise and good attention as the representative here gave it. But the scratch in the paint in this post – perhaps not surprising that this is what I as an SV point out – is that the representative here comes with a kick or a criticism of SV, which Left very often does in environmental policy. It was very dominant in the election campaign, also in Uppland, from which I myself come. It is a funny strategy, which has to do with government positioning – to claim that SV is a betrayal of environmental policy. But when it comes to the government question, the Left would choose to cooperate with someone from the red-green side, namely the Workers' Party, but could not expect to cooperate if SV were included in the same constellation. How do they relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2586	I would like to thank the representative for his praise. As far as environmental policy and integration policy are concerned, I am very much in agreement with much of what SV stands for. I just want you to have a commitment to the environment, that you don't negotiate this away to sit in the government position. I am concerned about issues that must be difficult for the government party SV, such as: oil extraction in Canada, which is a project on which SV is involved. If during the election campaign, this characterizes like swallowing a camel, it might be hard to take. I'm not going to repeat this. The most important thing for us in the left is that SV sticks to the environmental commitments they have committed to in the programme – do not negotiate them away from continuing to sit in government, in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2593	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2596	The political platform of the majority government means that we take a strong responsibility for strengthening and further developing the defence, with a particular focus on the presence in the north. At the same time, we must continue to make solid contributions to a UN-led world order. In NATO, we have an important voice in the work on a new strategic concept. We're working to find a better balance between the alliance's core tasks at home and its operations out. With new geopolitical trends both globally and in Europe, we see that more and more of our allies are supporting this thinking. The Government maintains Norway’s solid commitment to Afghanistan, both civil and military. We focus on building Afghan capacity to ensure its own security and development. Our military contribution should therefore further reverse training, training and cooperation with Afghan forces in the field. Norway has concentrated its efforts on North Afghanistan. The situation also in our areas, in and around the Faryab province, has become even more demanding in recent months. Time is definitely not in there to liquidate our strong commitment to this part of the country. As we say on the government platform, it's only when the situation warrants it, and in close consultation with our allies, that we can start thinking about a gradual downfall. We're not there today. We went in with our allies and we're going to stay in Afghanistan as long as NATO is there. But at the same time, let me remind you that the entire long-term goal of the alliance is to make its own presence superfluous. Through our contribution to the UN Force MINURCAT in Chad, we take our share of responsibility for strengthening security in another major conflict area – that of Sudan and into Chad and the Central African Republic. I just returned from a visit to our forces in Chad. There I was clearly confirmed by many teams that the very important work done by the Norwegian field hospital and the Norwegian engineers is doing. The UN Secretary-General describes the humanitarian situation in eastern Chad as acute. 180 000 people have been displaced from their homes for the last few years. In addition, 260 000 refugees from Darfur live in large refugee camps in the same region. Several rebel movements operate in the area. Lawlessness, violent attacks and gangster activities pose serious threats to the civilian population and auxiliary workers in the border lines against Darfur. As the census clearly balanced, the long-term defence plan underpins the government's policy. The plan is a milestone in the conversion of the Defence and suggests that in 2012 there will be a balance between structure, tasks and resources in the Defence. This requires both increased frameworks and necessary interventions to improve the efficiency of the structure. We are closer to this goal today than in a very long time. Therefore, it is so important that the plan is followed up, and here the government is well on track. The government’s objective is a defence capable of meeting the challenges in a rapidly changing environment and protecting Norway’s security, interests and values. The defence must be able to solve a wide range of tasks, both at home and outside. We pay particular attention to increasing the presence in the northern regions, which remain Norway’s main strategic focus. The plural government's political platform is a progressive platform, but it's at the same time a continuation of the line that we've been leading in the last four years. The examination of the long-term plan in Stortinget last spring showed that there was broad agreement on the main lines of the Government's security and defence policy. We are committed to continuing this convergence and broad approach and look forward to good cooperation with the United Kingdom on security and defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2625	I have read Soria Moria II with great interest, as among others. addresses the part of Norwegian foreign and security policy that I believe is essential. One of the issues that I may find to be of little attention is the relationship with Homeland Protection – and the rest to the rest of the defense we have. It says, among other things: in the case of having sufficient strengths: ‘A prerequisite for this is regular training of soldiers and command.’ It would have been tempting as a first question to ask the Council of State for a definition of ‘regular’. Will ‘regular’ be annual, second every year, third every year — or at least so often that equipment does not become a mill food, such as: what the Home Office has to do, pending new exercises? In addition, the term ‘hard reserve’ is used. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about what she's putting into the concept of reserve. Is it a new mobilization force, is it a redefinition of today's home security, or is it a parallel to today's police reserve – as many have heard, but never seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2637	In the case of both the Army and the Home Office – but of course the Army in particular, because it is active every day – regular training is of the utmost importance in order to maintain an army that can be ready to be used, as I said in my post, both at home and outside. With regard to Home Security, we have been very clear that there will be an increase in training beyond the long-term plan period. We're in a transition phase where we've had to prioritize other parts of the defense. That doesn't mean there's a mill-eating device in Homeland Protection. After the quality reform, there is no difference between a Homeland soldier and an army soldier. The equipment is completely in order, but the training shall be stepped up. In the case of the army reserve mentioned above, this is only a further follow-up to the last chapter of the long-term plan of defence, where we will also see whether it is possible to see the Home and Army together, and whether it is possible and right to have an army reserve in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2646	The call from the Council of State for cooperation in defence and security policy is well received by the Right. However, when the State Council so clearly underlined today that the Government is well on track to achieve its objectives of being fully financed and balanced in 2012 according to the long-term plan of defence, it cannot be said – with the goodwill of all the world – that it is consistent with the actual conditions, where the operational preparedness has reduced all the last three years. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is whether it is more possible to achieve a balanced situation in 2012 with the basis laid down with reduced operational preparedness, both in 2007, 2008 and 2009. How are we going to achieve our goal in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2653	Now, the operational capacity to which the representative refers is the result of a change in large parts of the structure. No one should wonder that it is actually necessary to lose operational capacity to phase out old frigates and phase in new frigates. Next year, all frigates will come to Norway and be operational. The same applies to MTBs. We've phased out old MTBs and phased in new MTBs. In a transitional phase, there will always be a ‘dip’ of the operational capability. In 2010, we'll probably have all six new MTBs. In addition, we want the last two out of four new transport planes. This is why there has been a temporary decrease in the operational capability. But we're well on track with what's planned, actually also in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2660	The military operations in Afghanistan are at a crossroads. In recent months, the Taliban has shown an increasing intensity in large parts of Afghanistan, both in the south and in the north, both in the periphery and Kabul. The U.S. commander of Afghanistan, General Stanley McCrystal, says that if the initiative is not recovered in the next 12 months, the war may be lost. He has therefore asked for more resources – 40,000 more US soldiers and far more resources for training Afghan police and military forces. He emphasises to minimize civil losses by limiting the air bombing, he will reduce the corruption of the Afghan government, and he is concerned that the war can only be won if the Afghan people want NATO to win. The Obama administration is now assessing this strategy. Some believe that his proposals go too far in terms of the number of soldiers, and want to concentrate the military effort on Al Qaida in Pakistan instead of on the Taliban. How do the Councils of State view McChrystal's proposals and assessment of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2669	Now it's actually no more than two weeks since I myself had a meeting with General McCrystal, and I then heard his assessments of the situation. It is clear that the security situation in Afghanistan is very serious, but it is not certain that the US Government is saying yes to 40 000 new soldiers. What's clear, also from the Norwegian side, is that the time is not right for us to reduce the number of soldiers in northern Afghanistan, where we have our PRT. We're not going to do that. In the case that General McChrystal focuses more on protecting the civilian population than going after rebel groups and the Taliban, it is a strategy that we have been concerned about from the Norwegian side as well. Another thing that is very important is the training of Afghan forces, because we are all concerned that one day the Afghans themselves should take care of the security of their country. Therefore, it is so important to focus on building Afghan capacity. In fact, with all due respect for what is now being done by the central team in ISAF, I see as the same thing that we have focused on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2679	Quite often I drive along the side of the sea of Oslo, and not once have I driven past there without having to witness the accumulation of desperate people, sick people, immersed people or people standing with their pants down on their knees to inject. And every time, I get hurt in my stomach. It may seem that the number of people is increasing, but one thing is certain: I, who have been concerned with care, or rather a lack of care, can only see that the conditions have not improved, rather the opposite. Just before the election day, a report was submitted on the care in Health South-East. The report revealed that most of it is not working. For years, the Progress Party has been trying to raise the issue of drug care on the agenda. At the latest in our favoured party, a comprehensive representative proposal with a total of 55 proposals. The proposal covered the whole chain of instruments, diversity, completeness and predictability. The proposals were not adopted to the disappointment of many. Still, the new drug addicts are dying, and more and more are dying. The last day, a boy stood completely in the loft, on the way to fall in the way. He was so immersed that he barely understood what was happening. The boy did not seem to be more than 15–16 years old. I don't know what's worse -- that someone's lived this life for 20-30 years, or the fact that there's still new and that many of them are very young. My involvement in the care of Russo was the reason why I started with politics. That's why I checked everything first when the new Soria Moria statement was presented. It didn't give much hope. There was nothing new, no goals, no numbering and no concrete proposals, just the same old worn-out formulations as that ‘is a serious social problem’, ‘evaluating’, ‘evaluating’, ‘monitoring’ and better. One of the bullet points is that the government will ‘monitor the situation of overdose and drugrelated deaths and gain more knowledge of the cause of such deaths with a view to improving the survival forecast of drug addicts’. This is exactly what the Progress Party would like to do. To illustrate that, I'll tell you a story from the hard reality. I know and have had close contact with a young girl for years. She can't live with her mother, because her mother's rushing. The boy has had an upbringing no children should experience. Unfortunately, she's not the only one. One day I asked the girl what it was like, she could tell me that she had it very well right now, because her mother was in prison. The girl probably looked at my face that I thought this statement was somewhat strange, so she added the explanation: Mom is in for a living now. That's fine, because then she dives a lot less. She probably gets sleep, proper food, medical supervision, and the care of her teeth. Then I can relax. Then she said: Usually I always get a suck in my stomach when the phone rings. I always think maybe there's some bad news about Mom. When Mom sits in, I don't think so when the phone rings, and it's incredibly delicious. Never again have a child's statements touched me. The fact that children of drug users experience imprisonment as the best care services says a lot about how far we actually have to go. On behalf of this young child and all those who are in fear of a new overdose death, and with reference to the earlier mentioned point on this in the new Soria Moria Declaration, the Progress Party will make a proposal to that effect. There is a nasal spray, naloxone, which contains the same antidote as an ambulance staff use as an antidote for overdose. The progress batch has a desire for us to introduce a test project with the distribution of such nasal spray. Naloxone can be distributed to drug addicts, relatives, supporters and others working within the drug field. Naloxone will never be able to replace other acute health services in terms of overdose, but the nasal spray will give some more time before the emergency aid has to arrive. So it's the time aspect that can make the big difference. According to the Newspaper of September 30 this year, Norway is the third worst country in the world in terms of the number of overdose deaths, and we have ten times more overdose deaths than France, measured by population. The language of the throne contained only one sentence on russian care. I hope, however, that the Storting will later have the girl in her mind and support for such a trial project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2721	The number of starving people in the world has reached a record 1.02 billion people. That means that almost one in six people don't get enough food to ensure a good health and an active life. At the same time, the world's population is increasing. The latest estimates from the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, suggest that world food production needs to increase by 70 pst. by 2050 to feed a population that will have increased by 2.3 billion at that time. To increase food production by 70 pst. is itself a huge challenge. We also know that climate change reinforces the challenges of food production in several places in the world, especially in those areas where the population already suffers from hunger. A UN report estimates that up to 25 pst. food production today may be lost this century as a result of climate change, temperature increase, water shortage, plant diseases and soil depletion. Norway has a responsibility to contribute to global food security, both through our national agricultural policy and through strong efforts in the international arena. While the world's population is growing sharply, it is also expected that we will be 1 million more Northers in 2030. Although we have the economy to buy all the food we need, Norway has to take its share of the responsibility for food security by increasing our own food production. Taking care of the food soil is an important part of this. This is how Norwegian soil protection policy is a small but absolutely necessary contribution to global food security. Development of new and conservation of already existing plant varieties is another important contribution. Internationally, Norway has taken special responsibility for the conservation of earth’s genetic resources, including: through the establishment of the seed vault on Svalbard. Agriculture is one of the sectors most likely to be affected by climate change. At the same time, agriculture contributes to greenhouse gas emissions and the potential for climate action is high. I'm here to refer to St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture is part of the solution, which is an important part of clarifying the role of agriculture in climate change. As part of the follow-up to this message, the Government will now, for example: assess the means of developing biogas plants and industrial value chains for bioenergy based on agricultural resources. In parallel with national efforts, we need to clarify food security, agriculture and climate considerations in international processes. This is the case in the work of the Food Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, in the run-up to the Matt Summit in Rome from 18 to 19. November this year and not least during the Copenhagen climate summit in December. The follow-up to the Copenhagen climate summit must begin with a more comprehensive work on climate and food security both in Norway and internationally. I record that this is also an opinion that has increasing support in other countries, among others. in the EU. Sweden has food security and climate as its main field of action on agriculture during its Presidency period. It is also very positive that food security has been included in the preparations for the Copenhagen climate summit, at the latest in the recent negotiations in Bangkok. An overall approach to food security must also be reflected in Norwegian aid policy. Norway shall, through its development policy, assist in the development of the agricultural sector in poor countries. Improved food security is a prerequisite for poverty reduction and economic development in these countries. The government will therefore increase agricultural aid in the coming years. An important international signal is also the statement of the G8 meeting in L'Aquila, where the G8 countries went in to grant DK 130 billion over the next three years for the development of agriculture in developing developing developing countries. I am pleased that the increased international attention on food security in the wake of the food crisis is now a major issue. Norway shall actively support international work in this area. At the same time, we must also act nationally and ensure that food security is ensured both in national agricultural policy, in climate policy and in aid policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2747	Modern transport policy is about linking Norway together. We bind local communities, regions and the country physically and mentally closer to each other. All over the country, we find symbols on it – along the coast of the West with their amazing tunnel and bridge projects, in North Norway with an airport system that binds the country to the rest of Norway and the world, between Bergen and Oslo, where the nation more than 100 years ago started a demanding and very bold train connection across the high mountain to bind the country's two largest cities together. This story had never become a reality if the local and national politicians of the last generations were to base today's market economy thinking. When BI professors and the Party of Advances Siv Jensen so clearly argue for what they call profitable transportation projects where most people live, it is really an attack on a whole century of national hard work to bind Norway closer together. The election was a choice of value. Instead of tax cuts and market liberalism, the red-green majority will build up well-being and Community solutions. We will continue a course that brings together Norway, increases employment, strengthens business and maintains a strong public sector. And we're going to keep working to tie Norway together. During the previous period, the red-green majority made a shift in the pace of transport policy. We over-completed the national transport plan, and we have facilitated the largest transport promise in recent times with a new national transport plan for the next decade. We're going to spend another $100 billion. There will be more money for fairways, roads, tunnels, bridges and race protection. We are strengthening public transport in the nationalised areas and expanding the road network where trains and other public transport are not an alternative. We have an overall approach to the major transport projects. Where Erna Solberg and Right sees herself blind on the OPS, we believe that it is based on payment, and it becomes as well-known extra expensive. Our solution has been and is to raise investments and prioritize maintenance. Upgrading the infrastructure is important in and for the whole country. It's about interdependence. It is important for Norway as a whole that we now build the double track between Oslo and Ski. It strengthens our national competitiveness as well as providing a large and important part of the country with shorter queues and fewer delays. It is important for Norway as a whole that we equip E6 and E16 and increase the grant to ports and fairways in the north and west, because it strengthens business and value creation in the districts and contributes to the community. It is important for Norway as a whole, not least for the coming generations, that we build public transport and set up more climate-friendly solutions in the field of transport policy. And it's important for everyone that broadband is developed for the whole of Norway and not just for the inhabitants of the largest cities. When 99.9 pst. the provision of high-speed telecommunications networks by the population strengthens our overall competitiveness and provides a basis for settlement throughout the country. The right parties, and in particular the representative Siv Jensen, do not have the same focus. In an interview with Tønsbergs Blade, she concluded that roads and other infrastructure need to be developed where people live, and not in pig-grown areas in the West and North Norway. It must be built out where the need is greater, and it is in the East, said the leader of the FrP. The Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, has set up a strong reduction in the number of short-haul aerodromes. And the Progress Party will reduce the appropriations for the purchase of rail services. Locally, we see that the Progress Party has fought hard against urban railways, for example. in Bergen. But I do not just want to criticise the collective effort of the Progress Party. They are in the driver’s seat for Norway’s largest toll project in the capital. It shows that the batch in position is more responsible and environmentally friendly than in the opposition. I took note of the committee leader Knut Arild Hareide's cooperation. It's positive. Two of the main challenges for the Transport Committee will be climate emissions for the transport sector and a further strengthening of road safety. In these areas, the Workers' Party and the other government parties will be a much more natural partner for the Christian People's Party than the right side. The red-green majority delivered on the transport and communication side of the previous period. We're going to do that in this period as well. I am delighted with the tasks of the Transport Committee and look forward to taking the debates with the opposition in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2776	The right has ambitious targets for Norway as an energy nation and Norway as an environmental nation. On the right, the climate challenge is one of our greatest challenges, perhaps the greatest. We are pleased that this view is shared by the Government. The climate challenge is global. Therefore, results-providing measures must also have a global perspective. We need to put in climate action where we get the greatest reduction in harmful emissions for the money. The seriousness of the climate challenge suggests that we cannot run symbol policies but strive for mechanisms that deliver results. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister from this pulpit today underlined the very same thing. The right has been and will be an active co-player and a driver for the best possible climate policy. We are one of the parties to the climate agreement concluded in the previous magnification period, and we will be a constructive cooperation partner in this period as well. In the right, it was unfortunate that the government in the last growing-up period was unable to provide a big message on energy policy. Such a communication could have given the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss its energy policy in a comprehensive perspective. Unfortunately, the census did not announce that we can expect such an overall energy message in this period either. This is paradoxical, for at the same time energy issues have been among the top issues on the agenda in the countries around us. Both the climate challenge, the secure availability of energy at affordable prices in developing countries and the fast-growing newly industrialised countries and security of supply in our European neighbours have led to a more focused energy policy. Then there is a paradox that at the same time there is stark silence from the Government of the Energy Nation of Norway, the country that is one of the world's largest energy producers, whether oil and gas or renewable hydropower. The previous grossing-up period was for the first time in a long time that no petroleum notification was submitted. This did not give the Storting the opportunity to discuss the visions, objectives and strategies of the country's largest industry, an industry which employs up to 250,000 people, and which contributes enormous income to the state fund. Now it is announced that such a message will come in the current growing-up period, and I allow myself to hope that the Government will fulfill the promises in this area. The right is ready to take up this debate, and we want to contribute to the development of the energy nation Norway that exploits its potential for value creation, development of environments of competence and clusters of industry. This is important to us. Oil and gas activities are an essential part of the revenue base of our well-being society. Therefore, the disappointment was great when the government announced that there would be no oil activity in the most promising unopened areas of petroleum activity, that is, outside the Lofoten and the West Pole, during this pouring period. These areas are considered to be the most important new areas where we can expect to make new, large discoveries of petroleum deposits. The right says a clear yes to petroleum activities in these areas. We believe that good co-existence with other industries and environmental considerations can be achieved by means of strict and demanding legislation to which the industry must relate – where we use the highest technology to make the activity as gentle as possible in terms of fisheries, marine resources and the environment. It is assumed that values of approximately DKK 1 000 billion can be realised from the seabed in these areas. These are values that Norway needs in the community as a nation. It represents many jobs and value creation across the country, and perhaps primarily in the northernmost states. So this selects the Government to say no to this period. Then it becomes strange to hear Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg speaking on behalf of the Government that the most important task is to create jobs and value creation throughout the country. At the same time, Norsk Industrie comes with a word-drier warning in the Norwegian shipyard industry. It has been pointed out that we need to have all the necessary information on the revision of the management plan and that any oil and gas activities need to be assessed in a consistent manner before the initiation of petroleum activities in these areas can be considered. This is entirely in agreement with the Right. But I would like to point out that it is equally important to look at the consequences of not developing these areas in the light of petroleum. We also need to look at what it will mean for society not to take advantage of the potential of petroleum resources in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2802	Our government decides that we should pursue a policy of community, value creation and justice. This must include, among other things: reduce social health differences between different groups in our society. This will require a much stronger focus on prevention than at present. More cooperation is needed across trades and professions, and health services must be closer to people. We simply need to be smarter in terms of resource use and working methods. It's very smart to put in the stakes early, and then the seamsily focus a lot on the younger ones. There is a lot of good preventive health work going on today. Universal measures such as walking and cycling routes that give children a little exercise in everyday life by going to school instead of driving are also preventive health work – as are several hours of physical activity in primary school, free fruit and vegetables, and bet on voluntary work and sports facilities. Preventive health work is a lot about physical activity, diet and in some cases also about working with the whole family. Various projects will provide us with useful experience and at the same time contribute to better health for those participating, such as the Finnish Children's and Young People's Activity School with additional weight challenges and the projects in Søndre Nordstrand and Groruddalen here in Oslo related to health challenges for immigrant children. When we now experience that 120 young people between 13 and 18 years of age have to undergo first-time obesity, it illustrates in a rather brutal way how much it is now necessary to increase preventive health work. We'll do the same thing. Now it's going to pay off for the municipalities to be good at prevention, all of them becoming winners in this. Many have been concerned with the interaction reform here today, and that is good. If we are to achieve the desired health and social benefits, we are completely dependent on enthusiasm and creativity in the municipalities and good teamwork between the state and the municipality. The interaction reform is not least about extensive interaction between municipalities in this country. Many of the country's municipalities are too small in all the peoples to be able to succeed well enough alone when one here has more and more important opportunities. Municipalities must join forces on the establishment of local medical centres and otherwise strengthen the provision of health to the population as we wish. The reform does not depend on community mergers, I would stress that. There are many different ways of working together, and we also consider the co-municipal model as a model. But I hope the reform will help more municipalities assess whether bundling can be the way to get more robust in several ways. In the government's political platform, we say that the state will cover the actual costs of merging processes where there is local connection to the establishment of larger municipalities. I think that's an important and positive signal from the Government. Prevention is also very important in view of future care for the elderly, where we face major challenges, perhaps especially when it comes to providing enough skilled workers. One thing is money, another thing is to get people – then one must also be attractive as a sector. The red-green government will make a strong contribution to the care of the elderly, as demonstrated by the government platform, and as the Prime Minister also stressed in the opening of the debate today. We will invest in grants to build both nursing homes and nursing homes, and we will significantly increase municipal revenue, as it says in the platform. Not least, we want to strengthen the legal status of the elderly. In June, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left agreed on a guarantee of dignity for the elderly. We like to interact with other parties in important matters when we agree to go in the same direction. This also applies, of course, to the reform that is just about increasing interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2815	First, I look forward very much to proper and tough discussions on the good solutions of the Advance Party in terms of both collective action and rail, and not least road development without the use of tolls. I welcome the debate with the representative Bjørnflaten in later discussions on this topic. The Government Parties – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – have now presented their new Government Declaration – Soria Moria II. I've read it, and one thing is very striking: the new government statement has far more rounder and more non-binding wording than the old Soria Moria I statement had. I am therefore convinced that many red-green voters actually get a real nose thief when they see how little is left of the airy red-green election vows that government representatives ran with in the election campaign. I want to start by pointing to one area where Soria Moria I was actually much better than Soria Moria II. In the previous government statement, the red-greens, among others, said: that digital universal rights are important and that Norway should be one of the first countries in the world to implement and develop new electronic communications. Unfortunately, in Soria Moria II, the concrete objectives have been reduced to a vague wording to continue work to facilitate broadband with sufficient capacity. This is very creepy, and I must say far away from the measures that lay in Soria Moria I. The ICT interception does not stop there, because the SV and the Central Party have now accepted that the Workers' Party will have the opportunity to exacerbate the individual's privacy by introducing the Data Storage Directive into the laws of Norway. I think it is scary that Norway could vote to introduce the Data Storage Directive, or the Monitoring Directive, as it should be called. The Directive provides for all telecommunications and Internet usage to be stored for a period of six to 24 months. This is such a powerful interference in the privacy of individuals that those who were monitoring in the former GDR and the Soviet Union would be envious of the new monitoring measures that the directive opens up in Norway. I really hope, therefore, that this directive will never be adopted here in Stortinget. Soria Moria II is also very disappointing in transport, and the Government declaration promises nothing more than to follow up the national transport plan. This means that there will be enormous challenges in the field of transport even when the government’s NTP period is over. When we hear government representatives boasting of DKK 100 billion more about transportation over the next ten years, we have to bear in mind that there is no more than SEK 67 billion compared to the 2009 budget. On the other hand, the State Road Service has documented in the core network investigation that there is a need of NOK 230 billion to get a modern and efficient road network. In addition, there is a need for 80-100 billion kroner on the rest of the road network, and the maturity is close to 50 billion kroner. Soria Moria II therefore does not meet the needs of road and transport investment. In the case of motorways, despite the so-called historic bet of the Government, one will be far away from Trygve Bratteli's motorway plan from 1962 about 800 km of motorway by 1980. In 2019, we will still lack more than 300 km of being there in 1980. Yes, then the bet becomes neither historical nor big, it becomes too small to count. The Progress Party created its own national transport plan of 2,300 km new Norwegian motorway and a sharp increase in the appropriations for transport to ensure good business conditions and reduce the number of fatal accidents and other road accidents. The other parties voted against. This is about taking the zero vision seriously when it comes to both ICT and road. The Progress Party will support a strong increase in investment in infrastructure in its alternative state budget to ensure that the intention of a zero vision actually becomes something more than intention, that it becomes a reality, and that it should appear in the budgets and in the development of the road sector. It's about turning words into action, and it'll be the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2834	It is a great privilege to be able to sit in the national assembly of the country that the network has become the best place to live in the whole world. The Trontal points to the main lines of the government's policy for the coming year. Together with the Government's four-year policy platform, which builds on community, value creation and justice, this provides a good basis for the work we are going to do in the Storing. We don't have to be the best in the world to do it. It must be equally important that other countries also experience good development. Internationally, we are facing the financial crisis, the food crisis and the climate crisis. These are crises that have clearly shown that market forces must be controlled and regulated. The international financial crisis has seen the world economy in the strongest decline since World War II. We have not been so hard hit here to land, and there are signs of rise over the next year. Nevertheless, we have industries that are most likely to wear out the first few years. Specially applicable to this export industry. I am therefore glad that in the Common Era there was a special point that the Government will follow developments closely in this field. The financial crisis and lower oil prices have led to delays in investments in ships and in the oil and gas sectors. It'll be very unfortunate if our good technology environments before these fields get broken. Such wavedals have this industry been down in the past, and the experience of the downturns shows that it is hard to build up a technology environment that has been intriguing over time. Many of the investments currently being put on hold will also be an important contribution to meeting the climate challenges. The transport sector in Norway accounts for about 30 pst. by our greenhouse gas emissions, and in the largest cities can emit about 50 pst. Change travel habits and new fuels are needed. Electricity and biofuels may be the two most recent new fuels. Renewable energy electricity is non-emission and biofuels are CO2 neutral, because carbon dioxide released by combustion is originally extracted from the atmosphere of living plants. In many places it would be reasonable to start with electricity for smaller vehicles and shorter driving distances and biofuels for heavier vehicles. Biogas is particularly suitable for heavy-duty vehicles such as buses, refurbishment cars and other transport companies with fixed parking spaces at night, both for production and for filling stations. Where a natural gas infrastructure has already been developed, biogas will have special provisions because they can be used in turn when the biogas is clean. Norway has a high potential for the production of biofuels that can be produced from fertilisers, organic waste and from forest waste. In Sweden, they are well in progress with a successful gas investment as a fuel. It starts with natural gas, which is gradually replaced by biogas, which is now 65 pst. of the gas. Prior to maritime transport, positive developments are taking place in which natural gas is currently in use in nine ferries, in addition to supply ships, tankers and coastguard vessels. This results in a monthly reduction of CO2, NOx and particulate matter. It is a pleasure that the Government is now adding more gas ferries. In addition, there is a large potential for even greater greenhouse gas emission cuts by investing heavily in environmental technologies, e.g. fuel cell technology, which is currently being tested in ships. Transport policy shall contribute to the achievement of the objectives of climate policy. For this reason, there is now a strong commitment within public transport, with the strengthening of rail, urban railway and a doubling of the funding to urban areas that conclude long-term agreements with the State on the use of tools to reduce road traffic. I look forward here in Stortinget to being part of the large NTP transport lift, which means within a resilient framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2871	The sad thing about this debate is the red-green negation of the fact that the most important welfare and security does not start in public boxes, but inside the mind of the individual and in the way that individuals of flesh and blood relate to each other in businesses, families and private communities. It seems that for some people, it's all about political adoption and governance, until what you see as the good life for people, no matter what the result is, because the intentions and the celebrations of the warm society, the community and the solidarity were so good. Instead of reflecting on some things going in the wrong direction, you can only look at even more policies, set even fewer limits on what politicians should care about, and are even more creative when it comes to removing more and more tasks from the individual. A representative of the Workers' Party used earlier in the debate Gro as the great leader in the development of the welfare society and thought that bourgeois parties morning, noon and evening almost have ludicrous plans to wind up the whole welfare community. In the history of the Workers' Party, you take credit for everything that has gone well about since the Black Death – you don't mention any of the negative. Gro was as well-known as the Prime Minister who called for the neighboring crumb. But the interesting thing about practical policy is that most of the work is done to get rid of the neighbourhoods and private and warm communities that create real welfare and security for the individual. What is this Norwegian model? Today, more and more people are being pushed out of work, more and more young people are being disabled, more are falling out of school, and more young people are having mental problems. More community, said Stoltenberg in 2005 and 2009. We've gotten more in common. We've got it in common that we're in line. We're in line on the roads, we're in line on the train, we're in line for hospital, we're in line to get the money we're demanding, from Nav, and we're in line to tell you about an increasing crime to a cop who's not there. For the Right, it's not a good thing that several thousand things where we know who the perpetrator is are being ordered because the police don't have time to draw people to account. Nor is it a good thing that less drug crime is being investigated, and that young people become addicts and ruin their lives. Nor is it a good thing that we, with parts of our asylum policy and the way we deal with beggar's problems, send a signal that we in Norway do not care so badly, and that it is clear. It creates insecurity, and it goes at the expense of those who need it the most! We need more police to work with others to identify where the limit goes for what's right and what's not right. I've been a part in and out of prison, not as a criminal, but as a justice politician. A prison director said it quite well: what we're actually doing here in prison is a slightly delayed childbirth. The right has complete answers to that nostalgic question. It's a society where we have to take more responsibility for ourselves and not least for others, where adults and children are children, with a policy that provides more jobs for people in small businesses, and with a drug and health policy where people are going to get help, regardless of whether the one who helps gets their pay from the public or has a more voluntary commitment, and where the size of the wallet is not going to be crucial, as it is today. A good justice policy, which I intend to work for in the future, hopefully, has links to all of this, because what it's about is building people. If we are to have a society where fewer falls outside, and where we prevent crime, we must build on what is good in Norway. But in order to keep what the Right believes is the best in the Norwegian model, we need to facilitate that in this country it is profitable to work. It should be allowed to succeed, not just permission, but it should be great that someone succeeds and gets permission to do so. It's not a problem that someone gets rich, but that someone gets poor. We have to be allowed to take more responsibility for ourselves and others, not least others, because there won't be a warm society by the fact that we're done caring about others because we've paid taxes. Children who fall outside, school students and prisoners in Norwegian prisons need people who care, not just a country that cares. It has to be allowed to be different. Every one of us is different, but we have it in common that we will be seen, respected and taken for who we are, not just perceived as a member of some group. Some people in this room will think of this as being ideological at the top, and it's ideological. It's just the things that I brought up now, and that the right has taken up, that's the main essence, and what's missing in this throne number and in what we can call SM II. I think the concept of SM in relation to the private community is quite comprehensive given what has actually been proposed by the Government in Soria Moria II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2895	This period of growth we have now started is going to be particularly critical in climate, energy and the environment – not just for Norway, but for the whole world. It is two months until the major climate summit in Copenhagen. The Christian People's Party hopes and believes in a new ambitious climate agreement. To date, Norway has been a driving force in this work. But Norway is per year. today not a priority country in the field of climate policy. We are at the top of the world with regard to greenhouse gas emissions per year. builds up and emissions increased in the previous grossing-up period. In reducing national greenhouse gas emissions, we have much more to learn from others than others have to learn from us. Unfortunately, Soria Moria II does not seem to be the tool we need to reverse the trend. With a few exceptions, Soria Moria II appears to be more relaxed and less committed on the climate and environment side than the predecessor. There are no radical measures or major changes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Rather, it is added to the ‘business as usual’ of Norway’s sovereign largest emission source: the oil industry. The government continues to promise a high level of exploration and access to interesting exploration sites. The electrification of the socket shall be assessed on the basis of economic, technical and supply conditions. We know how these assessments impact on the environment and climate, it's just to look at the government's adopted policy in relation to Goliath. As regards CO2 capture and storage, the Government’s ‘Monthly Landing Project’, we are going a long way back in relation to Soria Moria I. The gas power plant cleaning project at Kårstø, which was originally to be in place in 2009, is now suspended indefinitely. Nor does the government confirm the schedule for the cleaning of Mongstad by 2014. Now it's just saying that one should continue working with full-scale cleaning. The conflict over oil extraction outside Lofoten and the Western Seabed is postponed until 2010. The formula that: «not to be opened for petroleum activity in this area during this landfill period»; has no practical significance. The formulation will not even delay an opening process if the Government decides to launch an impact assessment by revising the management plan in 2010. An impact assessment will take three to four years, and possible opening of sea areas can only take place in the next period. This was confirmed by LoVe Petro and the Labour Party Lillian Hansen in Lofotposten before the weekend. SV has talked little about climate and environment since they came back from Soria Moria, and that's not weird. There is a long way between the environmental victories of the government statement. The Workers' Party has shifted into greater integration in poorer environmental policies. Just before the election, SV10 launched environmental requirements for a new red-green government. The party announced a requirement for the permanent protection of the Lofoten and the West Sea, for the oil industry to invest in renewable energy, and for the development of new environmental guidelines for state ownership, so that StatoilHydro could be extracted from the dirty oil sand industry in Canada. It was announced that the pollution law would be applied to stop point emissions in the oil industry. None of these requirements have been met in the Government Declaration. The fasitator is that SV has had a partial impact on two out of ten requirements. The strengthening of Norway’s climate targets and Norway’s global leadership in CO2 capture and storage, but reservations have also been made here. Sharpening Norway’s climate targets to 40 pst. cut by 2020 is good and deserves praise. But the question we have to ask ourselves is, are these increased cuts to be taken at home, or are they to be taken abroad? And what happens if there was not to be an ambitious climate agreement in Copenhagen? Then the government returns to the promise of 40 p.m. Cut? This must be clarified by the Government for the purpose of ensuring that these objectives apply if – and only if – ‘it may contribute to an agreement on an ambitious climate agreement whereby the large emitters assume concrete emission obligations’. I can only see that there will be a great need for a strong climate and environmental opposition here at Stortinget in the next four years, and in the Christian People's Party we look forward to being this opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2935	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2938	Many of us newcomers on the big bench have with us some pre-theories or prejudices about what's going on in and outside the staging room, compared to what we have experience with from municipal government and county halls. In my first post, I think it's good to say a little about what kind of prejudice I have with me. First of all, I have a notion that there is more conversation and reflection locally and regionally than there is in this room. Secondly, it lacks centrality – now I am part of it – a basic understanding of – I almost want to call it – the community of fate between municipalities and county municipalities and the central state. There is a good enough talk, and there are enough debates in this room, but if this is to be carried out, this will be a practical, good policy, one depends on close and good cooperation with municipalities and county councils, and of course vice versa – not only with the three levels of government, but absolutely also with working life and with all social life. There have been several good speeches about it in the debate so far. We could actually call it maybe a seamless society -- or a continuous social virtue. It was the other prejudice I have with me. The third prejudice is – and we have had some good examples of this – that much of the political disagreement between us does not go so much on the future and on the means to reach a future, but it goes on with perceptions of the present. What has happened to these prejudices so far today? Firstly, this debate culture: I am disappointed. No, I'm sorry. I'm positively surprised. There have been very good and reflective and respectful debates, not least started at Right-leader Erna Solberg in her comment to the Prime Minister. Siv Jensen, on the other hand, is one who builds up under and only reinforces the prejudices I had in advance. Secondly, and in the case of the prejudice of interacting communities: there have been several good contributions here that have just pointed out that municipalities and county councils are needed to achieve good social development. But there's still a lot to pick up here, I think it definitely is. Even I have as my starting point that there is an incredible amount that could be implemented by national priorities if one only gave more of both money and trust in municipalities and county councils, and that one develops new reforms together with municipalities and county councils. Such a dream, or a great ambition, which I myself have as a big policymaker, is the following: Partnership is fashionable within everything public, and not least at national level it is underlined that all should publicly conclude partnership agreements. But the central state has so far avoided this kind of work in an impressive way. It should be an attempt to do something about this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2953	Again Norway has received a government with a minority of voters, but a majority in the Grand Duchy. Once again, an undemocratic electoral law allows a minority of voters to govern Norwegian politics and thus very much of what affects people most in reality on a daily basis. In its 2005 Declaration of Accession, the Government of Stoltenberg stated: ‘Trafficking is an important prerequisite for settlement, industrial development and resource use across the country. The Government will strengthen its commitment to trade.’ However, in the period 2005–09, roads have become worse. In the last four years of the Stoltenberg government, Norway has been slowing down as a road nation. We have scarcely built a new highway, the maintenance seat drivage on Norwegian roads has increased, and in the case of tribal and national roads, which the State Road Service itself classifies, a greater proportion now has the term poor or very poor. The number of serious accidents and the number of fatal accidents is large — greater than in many countries we can compare with. Toll financing has increased by 30 pst. in the last four years. The use of toll financing, which is the purchase of the road to pay, is a significant extra tax imposed on transport users – an extra tax of approximately DKK 20 billion in 2005-2009. In the languages of the throne, increased bets are mentioned on transportation. Here, however, there is no shift in the pace of transport policy, especially in the road sector. There is no improvement, reinforcement or renewal of state-owned relations. There are no new funding tools in the transport sector. There is no measure of transport policy to improve, strengthen or renew the organisation of the Norwegian transport sector. That's what's needed. I show you, among other things: to the National Audit Office’s investigation of operation and maintenance which happened to be known immediately after the choice. There is no assurance here to bet on removing the maintenance drivage in the road sector. Ten days ago, another report showed how much it costs to cover the maintenance run of today's county roads, today's municipal roads and road sections transferred from the state to the county municipalities. That's a lot of money – between 34 and 46 billion dollars will cost. At best, the government's trade promise is a 50-year perspective boost. The transport promise made by the Government is to lift national roads from the responsibility of the State and to the county municipalities. Norway needs to improve, strengthen and renew its transport policy. The government's platform and the throne don't give it. The Progress Party's alternative proposal for a national transport plan for the next period does so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e2974	"All the power is gathered in this hall," was a sensible man who said a few years ago. When we look back at the last four years, it's hardly anything that's very striking. That's why it's extra nice when the government now expresses that it's going to build new reconciliations in a wider majority of the Storting. Especially for us who are new here, it gives a good feeling and optimism for four rich years in the service of democracy. I will first be allowed to give some credit for some of the intentions of Soria Moria II, but at the same time attach some comments to it. The political platform says: ‘We will bet on Norway as a knowledge society through education for all and high-quality research.’ I sincerely hope that the Government is serious about that, and follow up through priorities. The teaching profession must again be seen as lucrative, both in terms of pay and performance. Only then will we receive applications from those who are above average. It was just supposed to be missing. We would like to have the best of them. I have no doubt that a strong commitment to school and research is the best thing we can do for our descendants. Then hot or cold food becomes completely immaterial. Research and development are central to achieving the knowledge society we want. A few years ago, a responsible state council member said that we were in a period of rest. I hope that the presentation that comes tomorrow with the budget says we're done with it for good. Furthermore, the platform states: ‘A living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is essential for meeting the societal challenges’. It can almost be suspected that it has been cut out of the Right application. It can hardly be said better. But we who come from the rapporteur's job and here have a different feeling, because there are still more decisions in local democracy to be reviewed by the County Council. It has increased in recent years. This has meant that the interest in participating in local democracy is getting worse and worse. Right have faith that those who sit closest to the problem are the ones who have the best solutions. It also seems very encouraging when the Government will implement a shift in the transport and communication sectors. In addition to good and predictable business framework conditions, there is hardly anything else that means more than good transport and communication solutions, and there has been a repetition of the entire electoral campaign: good and stable framework conditions and a much better road network. The follow-up to the national transport plan offers a certain boost, but there is a lot left. The government will ensure that Norway has a modern defence with military, maritime and air defence. The government has also said that they will continue in Afghanistan. When the government says that they might step down during the period, it's not quite that good. Nevertheless, we support the Government saying that they will maintain the civil part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3004	The big city has come to stay. In 20 years there will be 785,000 people living in Oslo, 210,000 more than now. It's a myth that people in the city would actually live in the country if they had the opportunity. A survey in the Evening Post last week told us that a large majority of Oslo's inhabitants are torn apart in the city, enjoying asphalt, cultural offers and the anguish of life in parks and on unrestaurants. It has been said about the person who has one hand in the freezer box and one on the hob, that on average he has it quite well. In Oslo many of those who have the best, and those who wear the most, live a short walk apart. In Oslo’s three inner eastern districts, Old Oslo, Grünerløkka and Sagene, more people live than in three of Norway’s counties. The area is in strong growth and has a high diversity but is poorly influenced by living conditions statistics. The age of men in Sagene city is record low, 68 years, 12 years shorter than in West Aker, a city on the west edge, where men live until they become more than 80 years old. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. There's a reason to be satisfied with that. But there is little comfort for each of the 70,000 people who have no job. Oslo has the highest unemployment rate, 3.7 pst. Oslo's inner east has an unemployment approaching twice as much. For the Workers' Party, working for everyone will always be a job no. 1st@item: inlistbox The Government Platform determines that offensive policies are to be implemented to develop the city’s qualities and opportunities. It is also offensive and concrete on major urban challenges such as drug addiction, crime and unemployment. The targeted integration and living conditions effort in the Groruddalen and Oslo south shall be continued and similar challenges in other urban areas met. It's necessary. As little as there is an average person, there is an average population. The whole country depends on Oslo claiming to compete with other European major cities in knowledge and value creation. In Soria Moria II, the Government stresses that it will be active and innovative in industrial policy and facilitate equivalent living conditions everywhere. It's about prioritizing, both creations and parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3017	It's an honor to stand here for the first time as a permanent elected representative, even though I'm not here for the first time. The first time was as meeting alternates at some point in the 1981-1985 downgrading period. In Soria Moria II, the government is proud that the appropriations for assistance have come up in 1 pst. of Norway’s gross national income. The rest of us aren't so impressed. Such a percentage has made it easy to become a sleep cushion. There is absolutely no need to doubt that Norwegian assistance in kroner is equivalent to 1 pst. of GNI. It is more important to assess the usefulness of measures and appropriations. Many countries in the world can point to a strong public sector. But well-being and prosperity cannot develop without a well-organised and well-developed private sector. The public lives of the private sector. Therefore, it is contrary to its intention when the Government requires assistance not to be linked to directives on liberalisation or privatisation of the public sector. In many of the poorest countries, the challenge is precisely to develop a robust economy with a market-adapted production of goods and services in the private sector, goods and services that people want and for which they are willing to pay. The fight against corruption is also vital for growth and prosperity in Norway’s co-operation countries. The government has failed to push for anti-corruption, especially in Africa. Transparency International’s corruption index, which is also used as a yardstick by the Government, shows that out of 7 of Norway’s 14 main cooperation countries in Africa became more corrupt during 2008. Further assistance should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be inextricably linked to the achievement of results in the fight against corruption. Development aid to countries with corrupt regimes is useless and does not particularly benefit the population. We simply want these corrupt governments to be clearly informed that further assistance from Norway cannot be expected unless they take these challenges seriously. They have to make progress in the fight against corruption because otherwise the cash flow stops. It seems that the Government is not interested in making such a claim. 1 pst. GNI is more important. So it's worth billions for nothing. It's tragic, but it's possible to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3028	One of our most remote societal tasks as politicians is to help prevent climate change and environmental damage. We only have one planet, and it's not just an inheritance from our ancestors, but also a loan from our children. We have a responsibility to leave the globe in at least as good a condition as when we took over it. Nothing is more natural for a conservative party than to promote management responsibilities and maintain the precautionary principle. It turns out that you can win both big shots and peace prizes for hope and high ambitions, but if you want to overcome the climate crisis, you need less rhetoric and better results. The government is good at talking about what goals we have for 2020 and 2030, but we hear little about what is to be done today, which will deliver results already tomorrow. Norway has the best conditions to help resolve the climate crisis, both economically and technologically. It is appropriate to contribute to the development of capture and storage technologies. But it is far ahead of time, and the success of technology depends on the fact that other than the world's richest countries can afford to use it, and that technology is not out of date when it is finally ready for commercialization. We cannot wait for capture and storage; we must act now. The government may, for example: make concrete and strict requirements for energy efficiency and climate friendliness in new buildings, cars and dwellings. Strong climate and environmental requirements combined with technology-neutral support schemes will contribute to the diversity of new solutions, stimulating green employment, research and development. The solution to the climate crisis lies in the power of diversity and human ingenuity. What the government shouldn't do is pick out favorites among technological solutions and energy sources. If there's one thing politicians are bad at, it's picking winners and predicting the future. The main problem in climate and environmental policy is that it is too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly. Stricter requirements in combination with a red to green shift will enable the market to be used in the service of the environment. And better servant doesn't exist. It is gratifying to note that the Government also seems to agree, with the introduction of a single market for green certificates with Sweden from 2012. Just a shame we've already been through four lost years for renewable energy production. In the right, Norway believes that it has the potential to become a major force of renewable energy in the coming years, but in the wake of the financial crisis, we see that the Nordic power market has a power surplus of 20 TWh. Therefore, a key prerequisite for the large-scale expansion of renewable energy is the full integration of the Nordic region into the European electricity market. Everything else will be to fire the crows with taxpayers' money. It's expensive, it's stupid, and it's inefficient. When the government earlier this year had the possibility to delete surplus allowances of 13,5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, equivalent to 25 pst. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions, it chose not to do so. Instead, the allowances were sold, although no other measure would have provided a greater climate benefit for the money in 2009. Then it's okay to talk about what's going to happen in 2030. It is disappointing to note the distance between words and action in government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3057	Soria Moria II announces changes in asylum policy. Something's positive. The government shows, among other things: willingness to release bottlenecks in the system. They want to make it more effective, and they want to reduce the procedure time. In my opinion, the core of the challenges we have is right here. The legal certainty of asylum seekers must, of course, be at the root of this work. The process needs to be more effective, but it cannot be so effective that it is at the expense of a fair and judicial process. The Christian People's Party also believes that it is a right way to set up a national identity and documentation centre. We also support increased use of the obligation to notify and to impose specific residences, among other things. to applicants for asylum who do not contribute to the disclosure of the case or commit crime. These points are not controversial, in my view. It remains to be seen whether the government parties will succeed in their ambitions. There are other, much more controversial measures. Overall, care has been given up for them between 15 and 18 years of age to the protection of children. Now, the world’s richest country should prefer outsource the task of care centres in the country of origin — countries from which children have fled and which tend to be in war or war-like situations. The threshold for humanitarian stay must be raised and asylum and aid policy must be linked in a very unfortunate way. Threatening developing countries to withhold aid and development funds if they are not obedient to the Government's asylum policy has only one loser, namely the poorest in the world. These are measures that the Christian People's Party with wonder records that SV has actually accepted. It has to be experienced as a sinister defeat. SV has tried to be the guarantor of the Government of a continued humane and just asylum policy. They stood for a policy that more than the Workers' Party and the Centre took into account the UN recommendations. That role seems to be lost. As a clear and constructive opposition party, the Christian People's Party will be a driving force in the pursuit of a continued humane and just asylum policy. It is clear that there is a need – more than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3072	As a representative of the northernmost part of the country, I am pleased with the Northern Region of the Government. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good account of the Northern Region policy of the Government in his speech earlier today, and I am therefore not going to repeat it. However, through the focus that Northern Region policy has had, it has strengthened the belief in creating a new activity that gives the rural community a boost in terms of new jobs and strengthened settlements. Many of the possibilities that can be realized are well described in New building blocks in the north. Despite the optimism that many people experience, there are areas in the part of the country that are struggling with negative population development. Especially has it hit our coastal communities hard. If we are to succeed in our efforts in the north, people must also live on the coast, and those who live there must have a job to do. Nutritional measures that strengthen the further development of the region’s resources are a way of meeting that challenge. I believe there is a particular need to focus on population development along our northern coast. Good infrastructure is important to create activity whether we're talking about road, air or water. The national transport plan, adopted, shows that the Government has made words of action throughout the country. Also important infrastructures such as broadband and mobile coverage are areas that still need to be developed. In Soria Moria II, this is well taken care of. Enough capacity in the transmission system of the national part of the country needs to be put in place in order to create new jobs. Many see the need for increased transmission, but few will have the powerlines in their vicinity. It's challenging. Many of the challenges and opportunities we have in the north need to be solved at a high political level. Most of it is about finding good solutions for the people who live and work here in everyday life. Labour immigration and border residence certificates are two areas that have been problematic, and now some of them are in place. Much can be solved by meeting ordinary people across borders. In my home country, there have been generations of places of meeting between people in the northern regions. Even in the cold days of the war, we were able to open the doors to the east, where the key was coded with different cultural activities. Our experience shows that having a conscious focus on the importance of culture in designing policies often provides good policy solutions. The Norwegian-Russian cultural agreement is an example of this. Minister of Culture Giske has described the importance of culture in politics as follows: 'Culture is not just disconnection. It's first and foremost connection! To ourselves, to other people, to our history, to the community, to the world around us." I think these are wise words, and they can do well to shape the policies of the future in different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3096	It is a pleasure to address this assembly as a newly elected representative. The voters who sent me here have great expectations for Stortinget in this next four-year period. These are the desires and hopes I fully share with them, because that's now we have to lay the foundations for which our people's lives will be able to make their way forward. It's said that we have the world's best country to live in. The almost 800,000 people who have fallen outside society because they are either unemployed, poor, long-term ill, disabled or unemployed – have anyone asked them? These are citizens who also have expectations of being able to lead a decent life. Right thinks we have to extend beyond what we see the contours of in Soria Moria II. There needs to be a policy that really does something about the growing exclusion, where more and more people need to rely on public support schemes to have a living. Just then, job creators and jobs in the private sector are important co-players. These must be given space and framework conditions, not only by taxes, but so that value creation ensures that existing jobs are secured and that new jobs can be created. I come from a municipality where the success of Norwegian society seems very good, where unemployment has traditionally been low, but as rapporteur I have seen how hard it is to fall in such a context when it cracks. When everything else around a is completely Gloria, there will be a long way between a hard-lived life and Soria Moria! We're looking for the definition of poverty and we know that it's heavier not to succeed when everything around a rail. The government excited expectations four years ago with its assurance that poverty would be eliminated. Too many of them are still waiting. The right considers, therefore, that the most important task in the coming years is to adapt more closely the offers addressed to citizens who need additional assistance and support, more to the needs of the individual. This is how Norway can become the world’s best country to live in for all citizens. The population of my country has great expectations for this period also in the field of transportation. The government has excited the expectations very much in the national transport plan, but I know that many people think: I want to see it before I think so. New double tracks on the Eastfold course have, as you know, been planned before. Much is good in the national transport plan, although the right would do a lot differently. Not least, we are impatient about the implementation time of the new double-track project. Therefore, it was with pleasure that I heard that SV's Bård Vegar Solhjell in the election campaign expressed himself in the direction that, in order to get ahead of planning and construction, people would rather take help from others. The right one says, "Yes, let's do that."
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3109	Nature is the basis of all life and activity in our society. The society that is best equipped to meet future challenges, we in the Center Party believe is a society based on ecological, cultural and human diversity. Preserving nature is necessary to preserve biodiversity and to reap as human beings from earth's renewable resources. There are several ways to preserve nature. The centre party is based on the management idea and has the interaction between nature and humans at the centre of its work on environmental policy. What we have today is to be left to the next generation in better condition than when we took it over. Then we see that sensible use is often the best protection. We want to ensure all access to clean water, clean air and to be able to use nature in a sensible way, but mutual respect and understanding of people's ways of life, work and daily value-making in urban and rural areas must also be an important pillar of environmental policy. In Soria Moria II, it's been important for the Center Party to get accepted for just this. Some of the distinctive features of Norway are the well-kept cultural landscape that active use has created over the centuries. Traditional cultural landscapes are important as a habitat for many endangered species. But in many places in the country, this important cultural landscape grows again. It is therefore important to take care of the activity that created this landscape. We do that not by unilateral protection, but by maintaining the human activity that shaped the landscape. It is therefore good that the new government statement is so clear about taking care of our cultural landscape. It also turns out that some of the areas that are previously protected are not well preserved by the administration we have today. Municipalities play a central role in biodiversity management, and the Centre Party will have increased local competence and a greater local focus on species diversity and habitat types. The Government Platform determines that more care and management of protected areas should be strengthened together with the value creation associated with them. It is essential not to put the areas around the protection areas dead. National park and nature information centres shall also be strengthened and new ones established. That's good. The centre party will further develop Norway as a destination for tourism, based on Norway’s natural and cultural resources. The tourism industry must therefore be seen in the context of other important policies such as culture, agriculture, transport and rural policy. Wise use of nature together with a knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business will help to make Norway a priority country and create attractive housing and jobs throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3126	Today's debate gives a picture of where the different parties and representatives think we are, and where we want to go – visions for the future and society. One of the starting points for my own commitment was when my mother dragged me into the gender equality contest in the 1970s. It was not easy for a child to understand that gender would mean different opportunities in society. I could not help but believe that this was a fight that had to be won fairly quickly. But 30 years later, many of the same games fight. It has been pointed out here earlier today that we have come a long way. But I want to say that we still have a long way to go. The pay gap has been surprisingly stable, and women serve an average of 85 pst. of what men do. How we are met, and what attitudes are prevailing in society, is one reason for fixed patterns. I would say that attitudes towards gender roles in society have been disappointingly slow. In some areas, it's worse than when I was a child. Let me take the toy shops. The husband of the sex-shared place – one pink wing with dolls, princesses and all the world’s small, sweet dolls and one rough part with cars, pirates, monsters and toolboxes! It is sad that we are shaped in this way from the very beginning — which helps to maintain the lack of equality in Norway. Still, the mother is a caregiver and father who works full-time and overtime. The expectations of society about who should be at home in the event of a child's disease, to who controls the world, are tragically traditional. Of course, the parental leave is in charge of this. SV and I are happy that the government is now adding up to further increase the feather quota. I'm happy to get fathers to take a larger share of the total leave period. It is bad that girls who have chosen a training course in the care profession cannot expect full-time jobs, that they do not get predictability in relation to their own income. The fact that so many women work involuntary part-time also contributes to an even greater difference in income than the pure wage calculations show. I am pleased that the Government is now prepared to put in place important measures to achieve an equal pay promise, and that they have challenged the social partners to active participation. To get a promise that gives a lasting pay balance, we depend on the parties agreeing on distribution. Unlike the Progress Party, I see this as a declaration of will by the Government and an opportunity to approach us a more decent salary in the care professions, which is important in order to improve the recruitment of these professions. It's a fact that boys are more likely than girls to think of salary as a factor in making the choices. If we get a more even pay distribution between traditional men's and women's and a full-time entitlement, it's more likely to get a more even recruitment. It is also likely to reverse attitudes in society in the long term. I must admit an impatience. Even I've been in the fight for 30 years. Unfortunately, there is actually a short time in Norwegian history's equal pay struggle. But slowly we move towards my vision of a completely equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3143	Norway has all the means to become one of Europe's most important energy storms on clean, renewable energy if it is a political will to facilitate it. We still have great potential for hydropower, and we have large wind resources both on land and at sea. Norway also has a competence and technology environment that is fully capable of developing future solutions both on the production page and on the website. Norway needs a network of lines that can both accept future production and make it possible to export force. Today, more capacity is needed on the grid many places in the country. Future production and consumption patterns will change radically. The use of electricity for the oil and transport industries will require a high supply of power, and wind power produced on land and at sea will require a strong coastal network. We also need more transfer capacity to be able to export more power to the continent. Norway should sit in the driver’s seat to develop new cable technologies that can address these challenges. The new 420 kV powerline, which is planned between Fardal in Sogn and Ørskog in Sunnmøre, is one of the largest natural interventions in this area over time. That is the background to the strong requirement for sea cable. The same applies to the new 420 kV line planned in Hardanger. Sea cable is also required to reduce the negative damage to the inhabitants and the unique nature of Hardangerfjord. Many inhabitants experience Statnet and some power producers as arrogant and not interested in solutions other than air voltages when building new power grids. This also applies to lower voltages. There is a great need to have a comprehensive review of the network policy. It is very disappointing that the Government does not set the stage for a new policy in this area. More than ever, there is a need for clarification, both for the planned lines and for all those who have plans for the development of small and other renewable energy. When the new energy law was passed in June this year, there was a proposal from the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party to get a professional advice to go through various technological solutions that can provide a safe and more gentle transmission in the future. The Right, Left and Christian People's Party also asked the Government to develop new policy guidelines for the deployment of cables in the central network that increase the use of land or maritime cables in conflict areas, and where alternative cables can reduce the level of conflict and the burden on the environment. Both of these proposals went against the government party. It is very disappointing to experience that the government party does not show greater willingness to take action to ensure good and forward-looking network solutions that also take into account people's quality of life and our unique nature. We have an Environment Minister who says he will take care of nature. It would be a great paradox if he would allow shattering powerlines through some of the most beautiful natural areas we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3160	The main objective of the Labour Party in working life is work for everyone. And why is this so important to us? Well, by having a good job to go to, you get the opportunity to contribute to value creation. You get to make your own money, you're included in a social community, and you're valued. Through work to everyone, we're going a long way towards our vision: everyone's going. The international financial crisis struck us last fall, but in far near as hard as it hit the rest of the world. Due to our short-term policy, the Government could provide offensive measures to help keep the wheels going – and they worked. But the crisis is not over. That's why more of the government's targeted medicine is needed. The consequences of the financial crisis create challenges for export-oriented industries, and especially in the maritime industries, shipyards and equipment producers. Good arrangements on the guarantee side such as GIEK and Export Finance must therefore be maintained at the current level and the financing of ships already in the order books must be ensured. Our political opponents The Progress Party seems to be busy nurturing people's dissatisfaction. Our job is to deliver a policy that facilitates the Norwegian people to be satisfied. It seems that we have done quite well when the United Nations now allows Norway to be the world's best country to live in. And not least we won the voter's trust on September 14. And we want more. To get closer to the goal of working for all, we have to go deep into different issues. Why do we have an increasing proportion of young men who do not get out of work because of anxiety and depression? Why did 20 pst fall? by Norwegian high school youth of? How can we better ensure that young people do not resort to violence and crime? What links can we see between mental problems, drug abuse and non-response? What can we do to get sick people back to work more quickly, and what can we do to get the 100,000 ill people who are struggling with mental illness into work? The questions are many and show that we have an important job ahead of us. This is not a quick fix, but it is a long-term job to get hold of. I believe that these challenges are so important that they should be captured in the design of the Cooperation Reform. The Norwegian social model, in which the social partners and the authorities work together to find solutions to the major societal challenges, provides a good basis for achieving a long-term plan against both school and work dropout. If there is some government that is able to run a policy where everyone is going, it's the government of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3176	The Government has now presented its ambitions and targets for the period 2009–2013 through its Government Declaration. I have registered with special interest that the government among other things. believes that the primary task is to ensure the opportunities and rights of poor countries to participate in economic development. The Government further stated that economic development should be ensured by strengthening their ability to produce goods for own final use, but also through trade. For the world's poorest countries, the possibility of trade with Western countries will undoubtedly be crucial in order to ensure economic growth and increased well-being. This is also evident in a number of reports. U.S. countries that have participated in free trade have achieved far more well-being and economic growth than those that do not. In order to participate in trade with the Western world, there must be a willingness to remove today's unreasonable customs barriers for a number of poor countries. It is not long since the Progress Party proposed to remove the customs duties for a number of poor countries on the OECD list, but then unfortunately the Government chose not to support the proposal. With the new government statement and the stated objectives in this area, I hope that the possibilities for removing the customs barriers are now within reach. Aid in some areas has so absolutely been misjudged, but we must not forget what trade could provide of opportunities. Let me illustrate this in a slightly larger perspective. If developing countries in Africa increase their share of world trade by only 1 pst, it would amount to more than five times what the continent receives in aid. Today, Norway is the second worst country in the world to trade with the third world, only turned off by Switzerland. Only 3 per million of imports into Norway come from the least developed areas, much with a background in the high customs barriers. If the will to address this now in the hands of the government parties, I have great faith that we will be able to see a much greater development in these countries in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3187	The Prime Minister opened today's debate with some reflections about the premise of a well-functioning democracy. An important perspective that he was not in, is the need for active media that follows the political debate, which is critical, which has its backs to quality journalism, and which has its own internal justice bodies, in short, media that transmits the publishing traditions of Norwegian media through a long history has developed as our democratic development progresses. The media are currently in the process of fundamental change as a result of the digital revolution. Technological challenges and changing user habits of the public and advertisers create new and very costly content and dissemination requirements. Reinforced by the international financial crisis, we therefore see that hard-pressed media houses, even the largest actors, are putting the brakes on TV 2 at the latest, which in these days is in a comprehensive downsizing as necessary to grips with an expected turbulent future. In this picture, unfortunately, we encounter a rather weak and elusive political environment, where the Storting is characterised by a lack of competence and the government of a lack of initiative. The government seems to be satisfied with a media policy instrument shaped during yesterday's reality understanding. Ownership law and production support for the paper newspapers are what you rely on. In order to ensure the media as active participants and contributors to our democracy, a fundamental review of the entire media policy is urgent, where a new course adapted to the reality of the day is launched. I see from the news picture that the government is working on something that could be the basis for a new concession for TV 2. The right supports the efforts to provide a basis for us to continue to have a competitor for the NRK with sufficient back to debate and independent news coverage. Without a strong TV 2 we weaken the public debate and thus democracy in our country. However, in the work on this, the Government is likely to face a broad range of challenges, in relation to competition rules or rules on network distribution, such as the issue of open or closed solutions or perhaps the framework of ‘must carry’ schemes. An operational media policy requires these issues to be seen in the context of overall media development, and this whole picture is missing. The TV 2 issue illustrates a media policy that is characterised by patchwork more than a whole. It does not give media companies the predictability necessary to make the transition to digital platforms in a good way. Right will follow media policy carefully during the coming period. We hope the Government will be responsive and, through a stronger commitment, bring matters to the Storting, so that we can raise a necessary media policy debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3206	Some see climate policy as a threat to industry and business, but if we pursue an offensive industrial policy, climate action is a potential for industry, not a threat. It is obvious that passive, wind and electric cars will need a viable industry capable of adapting to new needs. Many payments, including: from the Technology Council, points out that eco-innovation is a growing market in which it is important to invest before it is too late. Norwegian industry has a high level of competence at all levels from operator to researcher. At the same time, we have a high level of costs that makes it difficult to cope with in many traditional bulk markets. This is why it is important to invest in the eco-innovation market, which requires skills and therefore tolerates a high level of costs. In West Agder, we have many examples of offensive investment in environmental technology having a threat to jobs. Most people are familiar with Elkem Solar. But we also have the old Iron Curtain, which has invested in windmills and now has become part of the world's largest windmill group. Another example is Metal Power, which is now building factories in China as well. This shows that offensive investment in environmental technologies can save jobs that would otherwise have been lost in the traditional market. But it's imperative to develop such technology. For example, Elkem Solar spent 30 years developing the technology that they can now industrialize, and they had mixed forms of public support along the way. If we are to have an eco-technological paradigm shift in Norwegian business and secure jobs in a climate-friendly society, there is a need for extensive cooperation between the public sector and private business and between the social partners. In Soria Moria II, the government promises to actively contribute to the necessary transformation in business to make a real paradigm shift towards environmental technology. The Government Platform draws particular attention to the need to review the instrumentation. It will be a common challenge for the Government and the Storting to further develop and make concrete efforts on environmental technologies. This effort must be successful if we are to create enthusiasm for the climate society and save future jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3223	A throne speech would lift us up in a visionary and general debate about the future, about what we are elected here, now will do the next four years. I know that in some of the speeches today, the level of this debate has not been as visionary as I would have liked. But I have some visions for the next four years. Me and the Christian People's Party are ready to take tough leadership, political leadership, to take care of the environment in the climate crisis that our planet is now facing. We know it needs to be taken care of. We're ready. We want to play a role in that matter. Me and the Christian People's Party will do what we can to make the school a master arena, not only for theoretically strong students, but also for practically strong students. Youth school has been the forgotten step. The teachers who work there are the heroes of the school, who have had poor conditions to care for vulnerable children. Me and the Christian People's Party will do something for high school. Me and the Christian People's Party will work to ensure that we in Norway do not become ourselves enough, but that we are constantly going to be in the fight for the poor of the world, that we are part of those who dare to lift them into the political debate. I think everyone has understood where my dialect belongs: I and the Christian People's Party will make ours that the South will not continue to be a forgotten part of the national debate, a place where the red-green vacations, but as they forget when they come to the National Transport Plan, which they forget when they're going to help finance the cultural activities, and they've forgotten us when it comes to sitting around the King's table. Me and Southland will do our part to ensure that the university for which we are so proud to have the job will get fair funding to be able to participate in the environmental technology initiative that we talked about earlier. I and the Christian People's Party will deal with the matter that the representative Rolf Terje Klungland raised in his last post. We do not give up until we have received the night offer that the Stortinget has decided. Being a representative for the next four years is about the big lines, and it's about seeing the little people. I'm looking forward to an exciting four-year job, and I'm happy to dive into both the big, the big, the big, and the small details.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3247	The new government platform is very little concrete in many important matters. Some people call the contents of fog talk. This may indicate that there is disagreement within the Government and may create considerable uncertainty about what is expected in the next four years. The Government Platform contains 81 pages. Of these, church, religious, and life - vision policies are supported by only one side. One of the objectives of the Government is to increase the number of performance and slide constellations. The need for more performances in the Norwegian Church is known, and if the Government believes that we should have an active, living people's church, the Advance Party expects the Government to follow up with funds in the budget for this. The Progress Party has also long highlighted the importance of training foreign publishers in the Norwegian language and society. For this reason, the Progress Party is pleased that an overall government, in fact, is in favour of this, and underlines the importance of the need to start training as soon as possible. The government also has good intentions in primary school that are in line with the policy of the Progress Party, but we lack concrete action in relation to the further training and recruitment of teachers. We know that the need for newly educated teachers is great, and it's getting bigger and bigger in the next few years – this because of the high average age of the profession, and is therefore completely independent of whether or not the teacher's density is increasing. The municipalities in the area of Stockholm Stord/Haugesund, which mainly recruit their teachers from there, are very concerned that the need for approx. 100 new teachers a year from the next year can be difficult to cover if the training at HSH is not complete, i.e. the teacher training from 1 to 7. class and 5 to 10 class. The party assumes that if there are enough applicants for HSH and other teacher training institutions, it is not necessary to choose what one will offer but to ensure that the need for full teacher training is met. When the budget is presented tomorrow, the Progress Party expects the fog talk to be replaced by reality. I'm excited about this, so everyone knows what the government really means. Then we get out of fogland and see how we can get into a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3264	As far as the debate is concerned, there is hardly much new to be made, but some of the claims made by this speaker should nevertheless be commented on. The Laila Marie Reiertsen Progress Party – I think it was – is attacking the majority for a lack of willingness for equal pay on a rather syllable basis: that we did not vote in favour of the June demonstration proposal of the Progress Party that the Government should ensure a pay gap for low-wage women in the public sector. So it says the Progress Party, which has always believed that it is not a government task to balance wage differences ‘which naturally arise in the labour market’. It would be interesting to know what, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is natural wage differences in the labour market, and what are unnatural differences. We haven't heard anything about that. Is lower wages and salaries in the public sector unnatural, while lower wages and salaries in the private sector are natural? Or was it the desire of the Progress Party to attract votes from women in the public sector, a selection group where the Progress Party is usually not as strong as it was behind the proposal? In that case, it's not the first time we've seen such curvature jumps from the Progress Party. We still have the shift in pension issues fresh in memory. The advance party are experts in turning the cape after the wind. It's also a habit the Progress Party has, to stand outside important conciliation in the Storting. And so there were no other parties that supported the Advance Party in June. There are some obvious reasons for that. Firstly, income policy cooperation is an important pillar of the welfare society. Many countries envy us because it creates predictability and fairer distribution and mitigates the level of conflict in society. Compared to many other countries, there are small wage differences in Norway. The proposal of the Progress Party means undermining this valuable cooperation and moving towards policy-based wages. I thought otherwise that the Progress Party thought that we politicians decided too much, not too little. Secondly, a skipper at one payroll does little to help; it will soon be eaten up. While the idea of an equal pay pot may be offensive – DKK 3 billion is mentioned – only in the municipalities are there 120 000 annual jobs in the care and care sector. It's going to be $25,000 on average. And then I haven't yet mentioned the 52,000 years of nursing in the specialist health service, or the cleaners, or the mercenaries. No, it is the social partners who themselves have to take responsibility for equal pay in a sustainable perspective. That's where the red-greens will contribute. Only then can we get something like monks and commodities. The Progress Party is otherwise also opposed to central negotiations. The June proposal is valid in 2009. The Progress Party has considered that the individual, e.g. Nurses, will further negotiate their own equal pay on their own? Finally, I want to repeat the question. For the red-greens, it is also important to get equal pay in the private sector. Is it not important for the Progress Party, or is it the case in the world of the Progress Party that wage differences in the private sector are more natural?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3279	For a simple coastal soul, it is always good to read government statements highlighting the importance of coastal industry for the welfare of the nation. Therefore, it is at least nice to find the coastal industries mentioned also in Soria Moria II. In fact, if I interpret everything in the best sense, you can also hope for an improvement in the framework conditions for these. The rewordings and changes we see from Soria Moria I to Soria Moria II hope I'm telling you that you've become aware of the costs of controlling the competitive industries. I don't want to insult the flatlusa, so I'm not going to use pictures from the animal kingdom when I'm going to describe the obscurity of some descriptions of the business policy of the sitting government. All honor to politicians trying to see the coast as a whole. It's old and wise, but unfortunately too often you forget the lesson that you can go into the bird's mountain to check the state of the sea. Sustainability according to ecological principles is an important and correct principle. Only in the few days I have been a representative, have I received several enquiries from stakeholders in fisheries and aquaculture that tell of the strangest forms of regulation, regulation, agreements or bureaucracy: Enterprises have problems getting clarity in the current legislation so that workers from North-West Russia can obtain work permits in Norway. Recent changes in the regulation on boat size versus cargo space capacity, and the complexity of interpreting what is machinery failure in order to obtain fishing quota with another boat, are problematic. The issue and debate on the award of new breeding concessions: there are difficulties in tracing the justification for allocations back to the adopted regulations. The last example is Norwegian mackerel fishermen who have been thrown out of the EU zone and are at risk of losing up to a billion. All of these examples are at best problematic for business operators, but unfortunately often the reason for not achieving the necessary profitability and robust businesses. Fisheries and aquaculture are competitive industries that depend on flexibility to care for changing market conditions. The market is therefore the partner who will pay for the valid on an alternate basis. It is necessary to pursue a policy that facilitates our export industries. Norway is dependent on export industries such as natural alpelue clothing, rather than on operators who are treated as nisselues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3306	Since the day has become quite long, I have, like several others, been inside the Internet today. There I have, among other things: read that parts of the opposition have thought that the debate on the throne does not have enough vision. We have now heard that from the representative of Eriksen. The vision of the Centre Party is to help make Norway able to meet the major challenges we face in the future. If we're going to do it in a good way, we're going to have to build the country. Building the country is also about building knowledge. Springtime, the first to start school as six-year-olds in Norway, leaves school. It's the first coal that's completed a 13-year-old school run. It's these and all those who come after them, who are going to build our country in the future. These are the ones that will meet the real challenges of population growth, of food challenges and of the climate crisis. The government has done a lot of good in the field of education, but we still have a lot to do. I believe that the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, with the Christian People's Party on the team, was right in many areas, but totally wrong in others. There has been such a strong focus on getting good at theoretical knowledge that we have ignored those who are good practitioners. There shall be no contrast between being theoretically good and being practically good. Many are both parts, and we need both parts, but we're just sponsoring the theory. The result is that we're struggling with a big drop-out, especially on the practical lines in high school. The basis for success in high school is laid long before you begin there. Before the election campaign, I decided to put high school on the agenda. I think there are too few people talking about high school. I believe that the term ‘forgotten step’ is correct. It shouldn't be like that. I know there are a lot of good practitioners in school. Unfortunately, these do not receive an offer that tells them that they are good. No, they have to choose 2nd foreign language or depression in Norwegian or English. So we're not giving them an offer that's adapted to them. We're giving them an offer that's adapted to us, as authorities, as a theoretical think is ludicrous. The government in Soria Moria II has told us to have more and better teachers. The government has also said that it will introduce a practical electoral profession in secondary school after the implementation of the pilot scheme. I believe this may be the most important matter we need to address in the future. It's about the contents of the school. It's about self-esteem, and it's about mastering. In short, it is about enabling all students in school to contribute to meeting the major challenges we face in the future. In recent days, a group on the Internet has been set up to fight for a practical subject in high school. It has got a very large number of members in very few days. I hope that during this period we can help meet the wishes of the Internet groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3327	I want to kill a myth, that the Progress Party does not have a cultural policy. What is good cultural policy? Good cultural policy should be in line with people's wishes, whether it is opera or gender. The cultural policy of the Progress Party differs from that of other parties. The Progress Party has a different approach to cultural policy in most areas. The party of progress is not against culture. Why do we get so much criticism, the Progress Party asks itself. Well, that's because we have a different approach. For the Progress Party, it is important that cultural life is free and independent of political governance. Unfortunately, it seems to me that political governance is getting stronger and stronger. The Progress Party has always fought for voluntary teams and organisations. The Progress Party is convinced that without Freedom Norway this country will stop. Voluntary teams and organisations take responsibility for a number of important tasks. In addition, there is no doubt that for every penny we grant to teams and organizations, we get tenfold again. The voluntary sector contributes in a number of welfare areas. It contributes to a diversity that makes Norway a richer country. The free and willing nature of the freedom to provide services shall be ensured. This means that the State should not over-lead how teams and organisations operate, but for them to function, it means that the framework conditions must be predictable. In the case of Norwegian Typing, there is a good overview of how the profit is distributed there. I was – and I am – of the good opinion that all the profits from Norwegian Typing would go unabated to culture and sport. They did not then talk about large fund reserves until the surplus was calculated. This is something we should discuss within culture. Another point that I should have liked to have heard is the sport. Sport manages incredibly important resources every year, without the Storting being well aware of the distribution and how much of these resources benefit children and young people. This is an important area that needs to be discussed within culture. The progress party was known to oppose the introduction of the automatic monopoly into Norwegian Typing. The reason for this was that the Progress Party saw that it would have a major impact on voluntary Norway – which of course it has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3344	This census shows a government out of vision and new thinking. However, there is one area where it is striking that this government has taken a new course, and that is in integration policy. We who have experience in coalition governments know that such parties who sit in such a government must compromise in order to agree on a political platform. But there's a difference between making compromises and selling one's own soul to keep power. That's exactly what SV has done in this context. The Soria Moria II Declaration of the Government states, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government will consider changes in integration policy in the light of the State sample looking at the relationship between migration and development of our welfare systems.’ The government is headed for the Welfare and Migration Committee that they put down last May. This sample has been commissioned to look at migration from a cost perspective, and there are in particular three groups to focus on. They are refugees and asylum seekers, they are family reunions, and they are work immigrants. The starting point is that immigration is a threat to the welfare state of Norway. In other words, a work has been started by this red-green government to obtain a migrant account of, among other things. the costs incurred by the immigrant population in the Norwegian community. The approach of the sample will be available in two years' time, and that is what will lead the policy of integration to the Government. At least that is what the statement says. The leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, was previously outside today and called for a social account related to productivity growth and immigrant participation in the labour market. A comprehensive migration account, including the wishes of the Progress Party, will be included in two years' time. The right is that we should have a sustainable and accurate welfare system, and that action should be taken to address the challenges of the welfare state. But we are strongly opposed to an immigrant account that puts a price tag on people based on their ethnic background, as the government here adds. The main principle of participating in the Norwegian welfare system is, of course, to do one's duty and to demand one's right. Each of them has to process their rights and, given the few things you need, they have to be color-blind. Then it becomes very wrong that a red-green government, which is the foremost figures for very many people with a migrant background – 70 pst. by the voters of immigrants, votes blindly on these lots, in which case such accounts shall be made. And what's that supposed to mean? What is it for? Right is concerned with a fair integration policy where we see the individuals and not the groups. Therefore, we believe that this would be very unfortunate – if an inclusive Norway is the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3367	Fisheries in Norway are complicated and comprised of many actors both on land and at sea. Both the smallest jacks, small fish farms, shipping companies and industrial groups are represented in this industry. The red-green government will have a varied fleet and fair distribution of the fishing resources that contribute to ensuring employment and housing in our coastal communities. The fisheries sector is also affected by the impact of the international global financial crisis. The government has taken a number of measures to help mitigate the effects of the crisis on Norwegian fishing industries. The government is concerned that parts of the fishing industry will not have sufficient liquidity to ensure the necessary reception capacity for the implementation of cod fisheries in 2010. This could have undesirable consequences for fishermen and individual coastal communities. Through the liquidity regime and adjusted guarantee frameworks, the Government has sought to contribute to addressing the liquidity challenges facing many fishing industry companies. The government will continue to follow the situation closely. I am pleased that the Government in its political platform has good framework conditions for Norwegian fisheries policy. The government has, among other things: emphasised on facilitating a fishing fleet contributing to activity and employment across the coast, which can ensure full-year and stable supply of raw materials to industry. The structural policies of the day shall be continued and the fleet less than 11 metres shall be secured with an adequate quota base in order to be able to operate economically. The government will have a varied fleet and fair allocation of fishing resources, continue its structural policies and ensure the fleet below 11 metres of a sufficient quota base to operate economically. I am pleased that the Government will ensure good resource control in the fisheries, and that it will continue to work to combat illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, among others. through the presence of the Coast Guard and flight surveillance. I am also very pleased that the government platform has no doubt that the participant law and the raw fish law will be maintained. Many fishermen along the coast are very happy about that. In the election campaign it was found that the Progress Party wanted to remove the minimum price regime in the Raw Fish Act. This would mean a dramatic cut in fishermen’s income, with the impact this would have on families and communities throughout the scope of the raw fish law. In reality, the Progress Party would have reintroduced the arrangements from the wartime. I am pleased that the Progress Party has flagged this matter, and thus confirmed its policy towards the people of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3384	The ‘Full City’ accident outside Langesund in the summer proves that coastal preparedness is very poor. The ship crashed right where safety is high, and yet the disaster had major consequences. We have repeatedly criticized that there is a lack of ropeboat capacity, but it does not seem that the government fully understands the seriousness. There is a lot of commercial traffic along the coast of Norway. Many of these boats contain dangerous goods, such as: chemicals or dynamite, which are at least as dangerous as – if not more dangerous than – oil spills from an oil tank. In other words, not only oil tankers can create major accidents in our waters. The seriousness of this, we all have to take over. It's too late when the accident is over. Therefore, it is particularly important to ensure high preparedness at all times along the entire Norwegian coast. We have to bet now – we know how fast an accident can happen, yes, we have already had a part of them. We must be able to avoid an increase in the number of accidents, but if the accident is over, the preparedness must be so good that we avoid large-scale accidents. It is unsustainable if the readiness is not put in place as soon as possible. So we don't have time to lose. I hope the government will act now, not just talk about it, because high preparedness in coastal communities provides safer traffic and a good environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3395	This year's speech is the first one I've heard as a representative. It was a surprisingly good content in this year's speech. I've been in the room for a long time today, and I've heard a lot of articles – with descriptions of the country and its management, which are very similar to a description of a country in deep crisis and without leadership. In fact, people in most countries in the world would envy the enormous well-being we have. I also want to remind, like other speakers from the red-green side, that once again the United Nations has named Norway the world's best country to live in. In my article I want to dwell a little on the topic of care for the elderly – perhaps it has something to do with my own age. Hospital space for those who need it is an important reform. Why are such reforms so important? Yes, because, among other things, family structures have changed. The children, who were formerly part of the safety net for their old parents, have moved out, and the neighbors no longer know people in the neighborhood. Then it's going to be the public thing that has to go on. It is the municipality that once again has to make sure that the security network captures the needy, the old and the least resource-intensive among us. Hospital space for all who need it is a big deal, a big boost and an important reform. It affects us all, because we have all the people in close relationships who need or will need hospitalization before or after. It is also important, in my view, that the health home offer is developed under public control in order to ensure that the citizens have an equivalent service offer. This is a promise conditional on interaction between the state and the municipality, not just on the economic level. Good interaction will be required throughout the planning and implementation period. To succeed in this reform, we are completely dependent on skilled labour. By 2015, 12,000 new employees in the health sector require considerable efforts to make the profession attractive to girls and boys. In addition, the need for skills-enhancing measures for those currently working in the sector or currently temporarily out of the profession will also become necessary. We have great faith in Norwegian municipalities. They do their part of the job if the economy is made available. In the census, emphasis was placed on continuing strengthening and investing in the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3406	Right-wing justice policy is based on two pillars. Firstly, we must have a good and swift response from the police, the courts and the criminal justice system. Through rapid and clear responses, society must show, in particular to young offenders, that criminal behaviour is not being taken lightly. The right will therefore add 1,500 new annual works to the police, and we want a significant reinforcement of the police's operating budget. The second pillar of justice policy is the prevention of crime. Good crime prevention brings great benefits, both social and human. In judicial policy, prevention has a natural and central place. The security of society must be built from below. This is why police presence in local settings is important. That's why the schools are important. Therefore, non-governmental organisations are important for a positive crop environment. And that's why the attitudes that are formed within the home's four walls are the most important thing to prevent you from getting on the wrong side of the law. It is easy to take security as a matter of course here with us living in a well-organised, free and democratic country. Then it is easy to forget that there are too many people who live every day in fear of assault. And then the crime trend figures don’t get the attention they deserve either — even if evolution is negative. Indeed, the figures show that crime in many important areas has increased in the last four years, including violence, damage, and crime. The crime scene is changing. We see that organized crime is becoming more advanced and better organised. We see that crime is more widespread across borders. And we see that new technology is being used for criminal purposes. We have a motivated, dedicated and competent police force. We're going to be proud that officials and women do a great job every day. Negative crime trends are not due to a lack of efforts by the police. Now the good can always be done better, this also applies to the police. But it is primarily a political responsibility to give the police resources and space for action to solve their important societal mission. Security is a fundamental prerequisite for positive social development. A clear judicial policy, an effective police and judicial system and a broad approach to crime prevention are increasing the security of society. We see this in the right to mark the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3421	The Progress Party wants a sustainable travel life that extends beyond short-term priorities. A sustainable travel life focuses not only on the benefits for travellers but also on the impact of travel life on people in the places visited and on values in nature, culture and local communities. Norway, as a travel destination, is unique in terms of these values: nature, air and water — and their variations. We've spread settlements. That means that we have living communities throughout the country, with enough space for both ourselves and travellers. But our unique natural and cultural resources must be safeguarded in order for future generations to have the same experience. Sustainability in travel is therefore linked to accountability, quality and long-term sustainability. Therefore, as the Progress Party wishes, travel life needs to be taken into account through local, regional and national plans. A good travel life is good district policy. That is why the Progress Party will, among other things, simplify laws and regulations. Commodities are what visitors expect to find, but for which there is no tradition of paying for, by reference to the right of all persons. Examples of such goods are tourist paths, ski slopes, rest areas, a clean cultural landscape, etc. Travel life — yes, society as a whole — depends on its maintenance and remedial action if necessary. Few travelers are willing to pay for this. These goods are increasingly sought, such as: in Hedmark, where travel life has a significant employment effect and provides for the welfare and well-being of many communities. A good transport network – which the Progress Party wants – and therefore opportunities are important for our tourists, both Norwegian and especially foreign, to experience what Norway can offer as a tourist host. For example, there has to be: rv. 25 to Trysil be in such a condition that the tourists want to come back – without the car taking any damage to the journey. Because that's what this is about: that our tourists are satisfied with the stay and come back and tell their friends how great and interesting the holiday was. No other advertisement can compare with this. Unfortunately, Norway is known to be a relatively expensive country to leave. Then it makes sense to reduce the VAT on food serving from 25 pst. to 14 pst, as one of several steps in the right direction. In addition, the Progress Party will continue to invest in the marketing of Norway as a holiday destination. This believes the Progress Party is well spent money, which gives a lot of back. All industries also need stable and predictable framework conditions, which are in addition at the same level as in other countries. It will provide the business community, just to secure jobs and jobs in strong competition with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3438	As a brand new member of the Financial Committee and Højre’s new fiscal spokesman, I feel very proud to be here today. And I'm happy to contribute in the middle of this hall for four years. It has been Right-wing policy to facilitate the establishment of the Norwegian gas industry. The development of gas use in Norway has long been a political development, in fact entirely since 1994. But then we got a red-green government, which introduced a CO2 tax on gas in the state budget – with the exception of gas for uses other than heating. This charge should have actually entered into force as of 1 July 2007, but ESA has said that this is distorting competition, and the Government has not yet been able to cut through and come back to Stortinget with a solution. The introduction of a CO2 tax will cause the good intention to become a good enemy, because it will be cheaper for too many people to go back to oil firing, and will, among other things, be. lead to fewer ships converting from heavy oil to gas. Without a charge, gas can compete with oil and it is a good environmental policy. Of Norwegian gas a total of approx. 72 pst. for industry. 20 pst. traffic — to gas ferries, which is a growing trend, and to new ships. 8 pst. goes to the service sector. Just 2 pst. is used for the heating of dwellings, which was actually the objective of the charge. Therefore, gas does not pose a threat to renewable energy sources. Over the last 20 years, the Norwegian gas industry has established over 30 natural gas reception terminals throughout the country. In particular the Haugesund region and the Stavanger region there is a total of 600 km of drainage networks. There may be three fundamental outcomes from the treatment of the tax question in the context of the State budget. Option 1 is that one goes back to the situation before the fee was introduced, as it was under the Bondevik II government, i.e. no charge for the use of gas. This will be right-wing support. Option 2 is to maintain the gas charge for heating and introduce the EU minimum charge for other uses, leading to major challenges for Norwegian ferries – which are increasingly gas based – for gardening, food production and for the large environmental effort currently taking place in Norwegian shipping. Option 3, of which perhaps SV is most popular, is to impose a ‘full’ charge on all uses of gas, which will result in the right fears of tomorrow’s government budget. The right-hand side expects the Government to clean up and remove the uncertainty of the Norwegian gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3459	Norway has just been designated by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in. It's our welfare model that contributes to it, and I think we should be proud of that. But even though we have the best country in the world to live in, we still have some challenges to work with. Today, health status and life expectancy are different among different groups of the population. It's influenced by the environment around you, and it's those with the best economy that has the best health and the longest life span. It's a challenge, and that challenge has been taken by the Government. A lot of good public health work is going on. Around the country, there has been a start on public health programmes, and in the Eastfold counties, from which I come, there is a great cooperation between municipalities, county councils, the health business, the sports community, the National Public Health Association and the volunteer centres. This cooperation between the public and the volunteers contributes to a lot of good public health work, which we can see helping. Some of the measures implemented in Eastfold with the assistance of the Public Health Programme include the development of marked tourist paths, school lunches, school fruit and activities for the insured. In my home municipality, Halden, the coastal path is now well used by many, both for recreation and for trim. Public health work is important for the health and well-being of individual citizens and can mean an increase in life expectancy for those in a vulnerable group. At the same time, good public health work can save society a great deal of money. That is why I am pleased that the Government continues its focus on public health, with a focus on time for school activity, expanded the offer at the health centre and more professionals with a broad professional background at school and in kindergarten. I have great expectations of the importance of the interaction reform for public health. The focus of the cooperation reform is on prevention. It is particularly important that we take early action among the children and help them to get good habits right from the start. Good eating habits in kindergarten and at school, children will carry on in their lives. Extra time for physical activity at school will help children to improve their health. Measures such as ‘Gåbuss’, which is a scheme that includes: have entered the municipality of Fredrikstad – i.e. that the children go to school together with an adult, instead of driving a car or bus – is a measure that I am sure we will see the good effect of the future. So finally, I'm glad that the Workers' Party and the Government have a great focus on public health, which will contribute to a better quality of life for the individual, regardless of residence and economy. It will reduce the pressure on health businesses and other health services. It is always better to prevent than to repair. A good public health regardless of the economy and place of residence is a goal we're going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3478	It is particularly important to stand here today as a fresh representative — and at a relatively young age. There are many who have gone into the policy with great goals, great visions and many tasks they want to solve, but then they have met a heavy and perhaps a little slow system. I'll be honest with you that I'm excited about what these four years will bring, and what they might do to my commitment. That is why I have seen a little extra until today. The debate on the throne is, of course, the great possibility that we have of raising our eyes – although there may not be so many who have done so today. But I'm proud to be able to stand here today, proud to represent East-Agder and proud to represent the Christian People's Party. We have to be a clear but constructive opposition party, so that we can help together to make Norway and the world even a little bit better. We're really good in Norway. So we also have a possibility or a responsibility to be able to help others. 25 000 children die every day. Over a billion people live in extreme poverty, at less than $1 a day. And we have the ability to do something about it. Climate change that threatens our planet will have enormous consequences for future generations. It will also be the poorest in the world. In December, there is a climate summit in Copenhagen, and Norway can play an important role. My hope is that we can come from word to action, and that Norway can help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, because we have a chance to do something about it. Norway was once again sent to the world's best country to live in. But it helps so little when we also see the shadow side – drug addicts, poor children, increasing mental health problems, young disabled people, lonely people and too many who actually have too much money – and it's also the only thing they have. That's why the Christian People's Party has fought for us to have other scales to measure society after we have to ensure the quality of life for everyone. I look forward to exciting and meaningful years at Stortinget. It'll be exciting to see the day I left Stortinget for good – if any of my engagement and some of my visions have given out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3493	The centre party wants to build the country, which is why it is so important to bet on transportation in a broad sense. I am pleased with the ambitions that lie in the throne and in the government platform. For the Central Party and the Government, ensuring good communications throughout the country is very important. We will increase the focus on transport in the annual budgets, so that the measures of the national transport plan are implemented and the objectives achieved. We are in the process of changing the pace of transport policy. We're going to upgrade the infrastructure to make everyday life easier for people, to improve the environment, to make society more accessible to everyone and to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. Enterprise transport costs shall be reduced in order to ensure long-term value creation. Good transport solutions are important for using all of Norway, to have active and living districts and good urban communities to live in. We now need to further develop the digital all-man rights. We will continue to contribute to increasing mobile coverage across the country and continue to facilitate broadband with better capacity. In parallel with the fact that the last households can be connected on the network, the capacity of the network has to be significantly increased. This will be one of the most important structural interventions that reduce distances, contribute to the development of nutrition and housing, and that can make more skilled workplaces more remote. Increased investment in transport could, for districts, mean increased investment in the development and maintenance of the road network, as well as a good ferry service and improvement of ports and fairways. It is also important to ensure the fast route. It is important both as a passenger transporter and as a freight forwarder and in the development of the tourism industry. In urban and urban areas, perhaps most of all, there is a strengthening of the railway system and the possibility for the county to expand public transport is very high. Land and social planning shall contribute to reducing transport needs and building up under a good collective service. Norway must be a leading country in putting environmental technologies and renewable energy into use in the transport sector. The transport sector must contribute to the reduction of climate emissions through planning and initial investment. The centre party will contribute to good communication solutions for the whole country, both at government level and at large, providing safe solutions. It's building the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3516	The red-green government has regained the people's confidence. It is a demanding task to be carried out over the next four years. We went to the elections with the main goal work for everyone. We have a financial crisis. We have a food crisis. We have a climate crisis. We have an older wave. The challenges are great, and everyone challenges the goal of a society with space and needs for everyone and in their own way. The fight to reduce CO2 emissions is about giving our kids the opportunity to live in a world where weather does not break the belief in the future and the opportunities to have safe and good lives. In the last period, the government set itself a very ambitious goal. We're going to develop new technologies to clean and deposit CO2 from gas emissions in the industry. Mongstad has today the largest point emission of CO2 in our country. If we're going to create new solutions like monks, it was a right decision to use the competences and resources right here. We're spending the big money on the big emissions. The technology that is needed transcends industry, country and company. We have an overall political vision of creating jobs and securing climate technologies that can be exported to those parts of the world that have resources to build coal-fired power plants, but not resources to develop clean-up technology. We have a political vision to contribute to making technology so reasonable, safe and usable that it can be used on existing and emerging sources of CO2 emissions. Ensuring adequate energy is about creating better living conditions. We will take responsibility for creating universal solutions for CO2 management that can increase energy production without increasing total global CO2 emissions. The technology that is the object of the project shall be universal. Special solutions for each enterprise have proved to be so expensive that they are not built. This context also applies to universal accessibility in society. Universal design of the country is about giving access to jobs and leisure time. It's about the possibility of independent life. We have to give several opportunities to participate in working life without insurmountable barriers, whether they have impaired vision, impaired hearing or reduced mobility – most people experience it, if not young, so at least when they get old. We need to work together to find solutions that include everyone, for neither humans nor industry are able to solve the challenge alone. We're going to have work for everyone. It's about processing the resources we have. We can't afford to leave disabled people out of work. We can't afford to let the elderly out of work too early. We need the experience they have to give the next generation the best starting point. Working for all therefore becomes the overall objective of the majority government. It provides the basis for the whole of the policy. We're the ones who are going to create and share, to spend the big money on the big problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3551	The increase in traffic fatalities is alarming. After several years of decline, 2008 became a bad year. While 234 people were killed in 2007, the corresponding figure in 2008 was 256 traffic fatalities. In September this year, 25 people died in traffic. The trend is clear: unfortunately, we also experience an increase in traffic fatalities this year. It is hardly a weekend without more people dying in traffic accidents. Several of the dead are very young people. Small driving experience in combination with high speed is probably often the cause of the accidents. It is therefore very important that the emphasis on good attitudes in traffic is not least placed on schools. Traffic accidents currently cost the community approx. $28 billion a year. In addition, all the human suffering that affects a lot of people comes. A clear objective of road safety work must be a zero vision for road fatalities. There are no simple solutions, as fatal road accidents exist wherever there is road traffic. However, it is a fact that midpoints on our most dangerous roads will significantly reduce the number of road fatalities. According to the Swedish insurance company Folksam, 72 pst is due. bad roads due to fatal accidents. In my home country, West Agder, the E39 is the tribal road through the county. Much of the road standard is poor, and according to the NTP 2010–2019 submitted it will only be built approx. 3.5 km new road on the E39. The government's investment on the road and improved road safety is too late. In the last few years, the funds for mid-rangers have been around. 10 km for the whole country. On the other hand, the Progress Party has proposed that 100 km be built at a midpoint per. years. Where E39 goes through my home municipality, Flekkefjord, six people have been killed in ten years on a distance of only 300 to 400 meters. The local people with the rapporteur in the head demand midpoints on the accident-affected route. The response from the road authorities is negative. In order to obtain midpoints, daily traffic must be at least 8000 vehicles. It's not here. My rhetorical question is now: how many more road fatalities do we have to have on the E39 at Flekkefjord before the road authorities are willing to implement measures that will ensure the traffic-discharge road section of 300-400 metres?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3563	The government has just presented what I want to characterise as a very offensive and clear government platform, a government platform that is clear that we should strengthen and continue to invest in a common school for all, and a education system that focuses on early efforts and lifelong learning. My social-democratic heart is pleased to note that the common ball is still important for the next four years, and that we are going to continue the private school conciliation. The ball has a great responsibility when it comes to learning and promoting good postures among the students. I think it's in a common school that we train good citizens who learn that we're all different, but that we're just as much world, and that we all have the same right to right home in the same school, in the same society and in the same community. In order to strengthen the common sphere, it is crucial that the Government now does, to strengthen the learning density, to set a maximum limit for the number of elephants per. learner. Too many learners still experience a school day where they are not used, and too many learners experience a working day where they do not have the opportunity to see all the students. That the school is free and inclusive for everyone and everyone, says something about what kind of society we want. We want a society and a school where everyone should be included, regardless of wallet and background. The privacy solutions to the right are, to my mind, a direct threat to a school that should be for everyone. Fortunately, there is no problem today. The fact that the red-green government has regained confidence will mean that we will continue to be able to develop and strengthen the public common ground both for the students who go there and for the teachers who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3572	Efforts to combat high school drop-outs shall be stepped up. Apostasy is a major social problem as well as a personal problem for the young people who fall out. Largely absenteeism from education and work creates major welfare problems. It is a common social responsibility to facilitate good growth and a meaningful everyday life for children and young people. Through research and development, we have a lot of knowledge about who is at risk of dropping out of school. Many of the risk factors we see early in the child's life. Therefore, based on the knowledge we have, it is important to focus on principles such as early intervention, knowledge-based actions, coordination and cooperation in prevention. The causes of non-response are complex and have to be met by different measures. We know that if we are to succeed, cooperation and interaction within the municipality, between the municipality and the county and the state departments involved are an important prerequisite. The SINTEF report ‘No human being is an island’ points out that there is no revolutionary single measure to prevent non-response. Long-term and targeted work on many fronts simultaneously produces results. In Westfold, a ten-year project called ‘Good Growth’ has been launched with a significant proportion of young people who do not complete education or who do not enter an orderly employment situation due to low living conditions and the challenge. The project is a tripartite collaboration between KS Vestfold, County, NHO and LO, and is politically anchored in all the Vestfold municipalities. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has contributed incentives to the project. The objective is, inter alia, to: at 95 pst. by all persons who enter higher education shall complete. In order to achieve this, programmes have been developed for structural measures at regional level, which are expected to be of particular importance in order to facilitate the work of individual municipalities, county councils and the relevant state agencies. Agreements and procedures for regional cooperation on prevention have been developed to ensure that young people complete initial training or other similar qualification for work. There has also been work on developing training provision for more practical students. The project in Westfold is an example of how together, regionally and locally to meet the complex challenge of preventing non-response. I will end by stressing the importance that all the departments concerned see the importance of a coordinated effort in the complex work of preventing high school drop-outs in line with the policy platform of the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3583	Investment in education is an investment in future value creation. Schools are not just about the number of teachers, location or one or two free hours in the SFO. It's about the students who are there. The student survey showed that bullying has increased in the last four years. The number of students who fear going to school every day and who are unable to concentrate in hours has increased. The number of students who, through a lot of bullying, are facing major mental problems later and who are joining the statistics of those who are outside high school has increased. In Document No: 8:97 from 4 May this year, the Progress Party proposed four concrete measures to reduce bullying in the Norwegian school, such as: a separate school representative to care for the interests of the bullying victims, such as providing more information to schools and schools on bullying, and measures to ensure that victims are given a genuine right to claim compensation in the event of bullying. The parties to the Government voted against these measures. I must honestly admit that I felt it was a very bad thing. I was very relieved when I read the government statement, where they show great self-confidence when they now warn that they have to renew their work in the field, and with this admits that the policy that is led to now has played down. I dare to make the claim that all of us here at Stortinget will of course fight to prevent and stop bullying. But bullying has been a theme that has been easily overshadowed by other issues and arguments from the Government, whether it is oil drilling or not, if you want to cut 30 pst. or 40 pst. in the greenhouse gas emissions or yes or no to the wolf. Little children who get bullied are not the ones who talk the highest in the class; they are not the ones who stand in the government corridors and cry out the loudest to fight for their cause. They're the ones standing alone in the schoolyard, kicking a little bit in the gravel and having a voice that's never heard. The Progress Party will not be aware of this, and we now expect an intensified and increased focus and effort to prevent bullying in the Norwegian school. Our ideology of fighting for individual rights makes this a problem we can't close our eyes to. Bullying is a struggle we have to put together on cross-political issues; it is a topic that is more important than political dividing lines between us. We are going to promote the same measures against bullying in this period as well, and I now expect, after the government statement, that we can get total support for those measures and take care of the bullying victims in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3594	The services provided by municipalities form a large part of the well-being we have here in the country. I am therefore very pleased that the Government announced that the free revenues of the municipalities will be significantly strengthened during the ageing period. This will enable local elected representatives around the country to continue to develop the welfare offer to their citizens. It will mean more and more highly qualified teachers teaching the kids, it means more hands and good heads in the care of the elderly, and it will mean a reinforced effort in the field of child protection, so that the kids who need it the most get it when they need it. The Government also assumes that the general rule is that the revenues of municipalities should be increased through the framework funding. Earmarked grants shall be reserved for key national priority areas, primarily in a start-up phase. It's a confession that whoever wears the shoe knows where it prints the most, and a recognition of the competence and knowledge of our local people. There will also be an important contribution to making real priorities between what it is to be put on. A better way to build up a living and decentralised system of peoples' rule is hard to imagine. But society is changing, and partly a rapid change with great consequences. This is also true for municipalities, and the need to further develop and change the way a worker works in municipalities is increasing. I am therefore very pleased and satisfied that the Government announces that the quality municipality programme will be further developed. It's taking seriously the tripartite cooperation as one of the pillars of the Norwegian social model. If the municipalities are to meet the challenges they face and develop the quality of the services they provide, they must do so in cooperation with the employees of the municipalities. For the Workers' Party, this is fundamental; we do not believe that the solution is unilateral directives from the Council's office. The government maintains the development of the northern regions as its main strategic focus. The basis for asserting Norwegian interests in the north is also linked to the settlement. Therefore, the government’s stated objective of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern also has an important foreign policy dimension. I am pleased that this objective is based on a strong belief in the possibilities of creating added value in all parts of the country. At the same time, there is a differentiated policy that takes into account different challenges in different municipalities. Some municipalities are characterised by challenges related to low economic growth, depopulation or stagnation in the population and a one-sided industrial structure. Other municipalities have significant challenges related to growth in both the economy and the population. Fortunately, both sides of the scale meet with offensive policies from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3612	Norway is a small country in the world, it has apparently been said here from this pulpit a long time ago. That's probably still true. If you're not the biggest, you can get the best. Probably it's even more important for a small country to be the best at something. The government has ambitions that Norway will lead the world on sea food, it's in the throne, and that's good. However, it is possible to have greater ambitions for Norway than the government has. Right has it. There are several areas in which Norwegian research communities, both public and private, currently have leading competences in the world. Examples include maritime sector, underwater technology, instrumentation and medical research. The government’s research objectives include a number of instrumental objectives, such as: equal opportunities and part-time reduction. In the right, we miss the most obvious objective of all for research, that it should maintain the highest possible quality and build unique international excellence, which can once again provide the basis for innovation and innovation that strengthens value creation in key areas of Norway. Unfortunately, the road has gone wrong for four years with a red-green government. The scope for research has already been mentioned in this debate, but innovation has also declined. Norway has fallen to 20th place in Europe, according to the EU body European Innovation Scoreboard. We are e.g. far behind our Nordic neighboring country, ranked among the world's best innovators. If we are to reverse this trend, cooperation between the public and private sectors needs to be much better. Then it is not useful to have a private allergy. The tax FUNN scheme, introduced by the Bondevik II Government, needs to be strengthened, quality requirements need to be strengthened and internationalisation encouraged. The entire public instrument that many claim to be too bureaucratic needs to be reviewed critically. Not least, there must be a political will to renew the public sector in general. Unfortunately, there is little evidence that the red-green government will be more offensive in this area than it has been in the previous four years. On behalf of the Right, I can promise constructive input and suggestions to raise the level of ambition for Norwegian knowledge building, research, innovation and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3625	You're as good it is to stand here after waiting for twelve hours! The debate on the census should be the debate on the long lines of social development. Yes, we're talking about the government's four-year plan, which is part of a natural part of a long-term policy course that is clear on important political choices. For the Labour Party, it is absolutely central here that we are able to secure the financing of our well-being, of our common good, in a way that takes care over time to keep up with the legitimacy and, not least, the willingness to pay the people. Then it is crucial that high-quality public well-being is something that benefits the broad team of the people, and not just as emergency measures for those who cannot afford private solutions, as the right-wing party adds, to which we have also received confirmation from the pulpit today. This direction of society has the population once again through the elections joined. It is a formidable declaration of trust in the Norwegian welfare model, which is extremely forward-looking. At a time when we see that Europe is looking for new ways to organise society, I must say that it was a pleasure to listen to the right-wing man, EU President Manuel Barosso, pointing to the north and boasting of the Norwegian welfare model. Let's say that the Norwegian tax pressure may be slightly high, but when you get so much back in terms of added value creation, high employment, low unemployment and good welfare arrangements for all the inhabitants, it's worth the price, he said. In a time of discussion about priority welfare solutions or tax laws, I would also like the Norwegian right-hand side to see these qualities. We can only hope that the time is not yet over. In a brief article about the long-term principal policy lines, there is of course not enough room for so many single things, but I have to be allowed to mention the goal of sick home space for all the elderly who need it. I'm overconfident that this will in retrospect be like a tree when the history of the welfare society is being written. Finally, I would like to point out that since I come from a state and a part of the country that has large export rights of value creation, I must be allowed to remind everyone that our economic freedom to act will depend on, among other things, heavy cost-requiring measures. the oil price. He will depend on the level of pension payments and not least on the level of the export industry and employment. We can't make rice on our own by having a use of money that goes to the seventh and last sends interest on the roof and goes beyond our workplaces. Yes, President, that's right, I look at the progress party representatives when I say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3644	The President shall not rule on whether the time of wonder is over, but the time of speech is at least over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3647	At the National Labour Party meeting, there were trends in party uprisings regarding the level of ambition of transport policy. Road and path are themes for which elected representatives at all levels have a great commitment. In this area, there is probably a significant similarity between the Christian People's Party's national meeting and the National Labour Party's national meeting. Transport policy means a lot to people's everyday lives, not just when it comes to moving on the road, but when it comes to a policy and a standard of road safety. As a result of this insurrection, the National Assembly of the Workers' Party decided that the counties had to be given a rise in the growth of the allocations to the tribal roads, and that project funding had to be opened up to ensure faster progress on important projects. This is good. But here the Workers' Party has not followed up, for what did the Government warn? Well, next year, the counties will get $1 billion to strengthen the maintenance of the road sections for which they are now responsible. Where did the growth go? KS says there is at least 11 to 13 billion kroner needed to improve the roads that have a poor technical standard. Only in my home country, More and Romesdal, we need 46 million. kr for operation and maintenance. In addition, there are large gaps in the financing needs of the county roads, which make too little to maintain current operations, and there is a lack of an increase in the investment framework, to mention something. If we're going to reach the growth of the tribal pathways, it'll probably have to be far more means than one billion. With regard to opening up project funding, it is interesting that although there is a clear majority of that among the government parties and unison support for the principle among the opposition parties, the government statement is silent on this. It may well be that the government statement at this point is coloured by the Ministry of Finance, although the ministry is hardly formally part of the political alliance of the majority government. Now we look forward to seeing the outcome of the Government's final investment in transport, whether the Government has listened and taken seriously the recordings that have come from all the states of the country, which are being held responsible for these new county roads from 1 January 2010, and whether the Government has listened to the clear advice that has come from the KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3662	The red-green government has for four years shown policy in the real world. We are clear in which direction Norway should continue to develop. The voters have replied by re-electing the red-green majority government. Our vision is that we will leave something more valuable to the next generation than what we took over. Therefore, we will pursue a policy of community, value creation and justice. In that case, health safety is important. We want the provision of healthcare to be equivalent to all citizens, regardless of diagnosis. It is a problem that medical diagnosis has a social hierarchy, where some diagnoses have a high and other low status. High-status diagnostic groups are characterised by seizing the majority of research resources. Drug addicts do not have high status in the diagnostic hierarchy, although they are very ill. Since the 1970s, a small proportion of every year’s coal teens have been recruited into drug addiction. With advanced disease, they are affected in addition to morbidity in all other areas, poor dental health and poverty. KRIPOS has recorded more than 200 heroin deaths each year in recent years. These are minimum figures, but still high figures compared to other countries. Too many people with drug problems experience not getting into treatment when it is motivated. Many people have to wait too long in the treatment area after detoxification, and after-suppression is too poor. We should therefore continue to build both competence and treatment capacity. Here we need both public and private treatment. Russ abuse is a serious social problem. No country has found final solutions that we can copy. In the long term, we need to ensure that drug addicts are granted their patient rights. Over the period, we need to pool knowledge and stimulate research, break down prejudices and support rehabilitation. There are, among other things: housing and employment or other important and proper activities. Better care is a practical policy of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3677	The policy platform of the majority government states that policy over the next four years will be based on Norway not being a member of the EU – not one of the most exciting sentences of the platform, but definitely one of the most important for the Central Party and for the country. The central party is the guarantor of Norwegian membership of the EU, also for the next four years. Active European policy must be pursued. Norwegian interests shall be safeguarded and the policy platform shall provide for the use of the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. The centre party is clear that this right of reservation is effective and can be used when the Directive challenges important Norwegian interests. The Data Storage Directive is such a Directive that challenges important Norwegian interests. With ever-growing technology developments, the chances of attacks on privacy are also increasing. This does not happen because you have evil intentions, but just as often in the service of good. Increased monitoring and registration to combat crime can be provocative. This is also the core idea of the Data Storage Directive. A mandatory obligation to store information about you and my telephone and network usage challenges, in the view of the Centre Party, aspects of privacy that make the Directive unacceptable. The directive will be a major step towards a monitoring society that we do not want. The government's platform says that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will go against the directive for privacy reasons, and the parties' government councils and big business representatives are free in the matter. The platform also states that the Workers' Party's support for the Directive requires that there is no clear negative impact on privacy. The question is therefore: what are the consequences of the Data Storage Directive on privacy? What will be new to the Directive is that information on contact between people who are not suspected of anything must be stored over time and used at a later stage in the event of suspicion of having done something wrong. Storage does not provide any practical purpose. I think we have an exciting process on the Data Storage Directive in Stortinget. Based on the signals that the parties have given in the election campaign, it will be open to the outcome of the case. I would especially appeal to the Right's position in the matter. If there is to be a right-wing credibility in terms of privacy, the party must be associated with the Center Party – and the popular commitment – that says no to increased surveillance. We cannot assume that we are all potential criminals, and that for that reason we must be monitored by the state for our common good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3697	The leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, is calling for the views of the Government and the Prime Minister for the country in his post here today. Is it because she thinks the Government and the Prime Minister are pointless, or is it because she doesn't like the visions of the Government in the government statement? And what about the Progress Party – do they have any visions? In the election campaign, the message of the Progress Party was that they would renew Norway. They wanted a change of power and a new course. In an election brochure, Siv Jensen said that 14 September was to decide whether the Progress Party had one hand, or two hands, on the rudder – not on the steering wheel – to get the course out to renew Norway. There was nothing of that, so we might not know what the course, or the visions, to renew Norway would be. But we know a little bit. In the same election brochure, the party leader said that the Progress Party wanted to give tax relief to everyone without becoming less well-being, that the Progress Party would be responsible for a responsible economic policy by wanting to invest more of the oil money in this country, and that they were prepared for government participation to remove the health cows, introduce a worthy and secure care for the elderly, build roads with state resources and speed up the Norwegian economy and business life. They finally pointed out that the party had no plans to sit in government for the sake of participation, but to get an impact on its own policy! This must have been seen as a direct threat by the electorate in Fredrikstad in Eastfold, where the Progress Party has the rapporteur and rules the city together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, because there was a strong backlash in the election. Yes, in fact they had a decline in the Eastfold state as a whole, while the Workers' Party had strong progress. Was it random? Well, in Fredrikstad people have experienced the Advance Party at the rudder – or at the wheel. And it's become tax havens in Fredrikstad. Property tax has been reduced. But they had set themselves the goal of removing the property tax altogether in the long term, an objective that the rapporteur has now announced that they have given up. A responsible economic policy can be challenging, and the vision that there will be no less well-being with tax relief for everyone, they have not been able to maintain it in Fredrikstad. It marks young people, who experience cutbacks in schools, with fewer teachers as a result, and cuts in the maintenance of public buildings, which means poor school buildings and gymnasiums. They experience it in the care and care of cuts in the offer as a result. And as far as road construction is concerned, the rapporteur of the Progress Party has made it clear to the state road service that toll decisions taken by the previous majority stand at hand – that is, the very opposite picture of what the Progress Party tried to sell into the election campaign. The reason why the Progress Party has gone so strongly back in Fredrikstad and in Østfold was said by the Progress Party to be with the rapporteur and responsible there, and that the opposition and the Workers Party have had a too negative focus on the results they have achieved. Think about it! Is there anyone who recognizes? The Labour Party is in government and the Progress Party in opposition has been very good for negative focus on the results the Government has achieved. Despite that, the Workers' Party has progressed. So this theory doesn't hold true. What the voters have stressed when making their choices is not easy to know. However, a related question is whether the Progress Party should look at its own policy to find the answer. Was there a lack of vision that caused it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3712	I'm impressed. I am impressed by how little new it is, how many meaningless repetitions there are, and how little concrete the Government is in the fight against crime. Much of what the government is presenting, they have repeated many times, but unfortunately, little has happened. The only thing I can see as positive is that they still want to ensure a high admission to the Police College. At least that's something they've started, and then I hope they'll keep going. But it doesn't help to train new police officers, put them on a bus and drive them around the country to show them out. Actually, the bus has to stop. It must stop and release passengers at police stations so that they can be put into active service. In order to do so, a plan and a willingness to increase the appropriations for police districts — appropriations earmarked for new police posts are needed. I am very uncertain whether that is what is in the wording: ‘working to gain more police force out of the resources available and to increase police staff’. It seems to me that this is enough a savings package, and the promise of increased police personnel and more visible police we have heard before. But now let's be a little positive and say we get more visible police. This will most likely lead to more people being arrested, more being arrested, more being reported, and more cases being investigated. This in turn requires increased staffing on the investigation page. The consequence if this does not happen is that today's situation is getting worse, and even more cases are being settled. Then I will briefly mention a little thing that the government does not say anything about. In order to do a job as good as the police themselves want to do, they need to have something to do with it, namely, good equipment – equipment that enables them to do the job well and efficiently. Just something as simple as ICT equipment in the cars would mean a lot to those out there patrolling. This will be time-saving and resource-saving, as they are, for example, not become so dependent on radio contact with the central bank, which is a problem in itself with a radio network that can be intercepted by everyone and which has an incredibly poor coverage area. Finally, it will be a great advantage if police officers learn to use this equipment. I have seen several examples of those who are driving patrols not being trained in the small amount of equipment in the cars. This is justified by the lack of financial or crew resources to carry out training. This must soon be seen by the Government, not stabbing its head in the sand and waiting for it to pass – because it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3727	The red-green parties got to a lot in the previous four years that I'm proud of: a strong focus on the north, both in terms of resource use, climate challenges and people-to-people cooperation, a major focus on transport; on roads, rail, ports and fairways, a historic boost to cultural life – both in terms of leisure culture and professional art; During this period, a major welfare reform will be launched: the interaction reform. It aims to see the whole value chain in the health sector in the context of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation by providing timely and timely assistance to people in the right place. To achieve this, cooperation needs to be improved and interactions between the different levels of health care. With the great resources that society spends on health, it is very important that efforts benefit the entire population, no matter where you live. I have great faith that the interaction reform is a tool that we need to achieve a fundamental improvement in the health system. But it's a demanding reform, not least for the part of the country I come from, with long distances and scattered settlements. Then it's important for me to keep up good trials in the north, despite such disadvantages, such as a good district medical center and exciting and promising health cooperation between small municipalities, among other things. on my home island Senja. In addition, I would like to point out that the Tromsø Telemedical Centre has the highest competence to contribute to the interaction between the levels that Health-Norway needs. The interaction reform suggests that the provision of municipal health should be strengthened, which is very important for a better care sector. By 2015, the government aims at full health care coverage by enabling municipalities to build a sufficient number of nursing homes and homes. A larger number of annual work in the sector is also an objective: several doctors, nurses and caregivers, and the conversion of involuntary part-time work into full-time jobs. But I would also like to stress that we must respect the intention of the guarantee of dignity, to which the Left and the Christian People's Party have also joined, we must think even wider. Professional groups such as ergotterapeuters, environmental workers and others need to be involved in the sector, and we need to continue our efforts to deliver good cultural services to older people, for example. through the cultural walking stick. I am pleased that representatives of the opposition agree that the interaction reform can be a proper way to improve health. Such a major reform should be widely endorsed in the Grand Duchy. However, I hope that the Right Party and the Advance Party will carefully review the experience of the extensive privatisation of the two parties in Oslo's care for the elderly and ask themselves if that is the way you want it, including. ideal operators who are unable to join the tendering procedure and waiting list for older people who need sick leave or nursing homes in a number of which no one really has an overview. How such policies will take place in sparsely populated areas, e.g. in my part of the country, I dare not think of. I am therefore happy that the red-green government is crystal clear: parental care is a public matter and responsibility. The cooperation reform requires, first and foremost, a great deal of effort from the public, from the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3750	A new parliamentary term is in progress, and the Government has presented the document that will shape its work over the next few years. I have to say that the document has many good wishes that get in this room disagree with, but I would wish, and I had expected, that a majority government would much more have clear target formulations that both the voters and not least the size could relate to. Where did the guarantors go? I understand that the lawn outside the Stortinget today was the arena for disappointed students. Where did eleven months of student funding go? Where did study funding go at all? Yes, then we in the Right continue to work to get eleven months of study funding introduced. We are going to fight for funds for concrete measures to lift the teachers' strengths that are already at work, and we are going to fight to help concretely identify the objectives of new teacher training. I'm disappointed that the government parties are obviously more concerned with quantity than with quality, that they're more concerned with how many teachers there are in each school than how many good and inspiring teachers the students have. The right believes that all good forces should be put into service as long as they meet the quality requirements, and we will therefore fight to ensure that studies at all approved educational institutions give students the same rights. Teaching staff employed in municipalities and counties, or in higher education institutions and universities, shall be given greater opportunities for retraining and renewal. Will this be financed in the budget tomorrow? In connection with the construction of a new university campus on Sørlanden, the University of Agder needed 40 million. kr to equipment. The councils were delighted with 4 million. kr. How does it relate to «equal right to higher education» and «high-quality research-based education»? The Council of State justified the low sum of ‘this was a private initiative’. Yes, it was a private developer who won over the state's own development company in the competition for building the premises. But the consequence of the Council of State's thinking is that students on this campus do not have the same opportunity of «high-quality research-based education». For me, it is completely incomprehensible that whoever borrows the money and owns the building should determine the possibilities for the students. Will this be corrected in the budget tomorrow? The Treaty and the Government Platform document have a respectable content only if, tomorrow, we have a budget that clearly shows the willingness to invest and finance the objectives that are vaguely formulated. We are waiting anxiously and can promise concrete and clear feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3763	This is a good day, because now the job starts to strengthen the work environment law. This is good news for all workers in the country, for those entering the labour market, and for tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life, which in turn is important for the whole development of society. I would like to mention, in particular, that the government parties are now going to work to secure permanent employment and strengthen their efforts against involuntary part-time and for the right to full-time. There has recently been a lot of debate on equal pay. One of the reasons we don't have equal pay is that many women work part-time. We find them largely in the health and care sector and in the trade in goods. It's a big problem for those in this situation. They are left with poorer rights, without safe income, with the problems they bring about in financing housing, etc. In addition, they have little opportunity to plan their leisure time and future, and we know that sick leave is high among part-time workers. Those who are in this situation are always at work. They are waiting for a phone call that gives them an extra guard, they adjust their whole life to be available to the employer. Small positions in rotation are probably the most disadvantaged and aggravating of all working time arrangements. According to the care report, it is necessary approximately. 130 000 new annual work in health and care professionals by 2050. A large part of this challenge can be solved by the fact that those who currently work involuntary part-time and do not have a fixed contract are given the opportunity to have a permanent, full job. In this way, we can increase the quality of welfare services, including: in the care of the elderly. In some hospitals, full-time test projects are under way, and the results show the same trend: sick leave declines, staff experience a positive everyday life, and expenditure on temporary workers is significantly reduced. Another important point is that it is much easier to recruit new employees when employers can offer a full job. As I said at the outset, this is a good day for Norwegian work. In addition to what I have already mentioned, we need to strengthen our efforts against social dumping and for a good and inclusive working environment. We're going to fight exclusion, and we're going to make it possible for the seniors to be able to do more work. Of course, this is important for the seniors, but it is also important to be able to meet the major labour needs we will have in the future. Finally, I noticed in the debate earlier today that the representative Per Sandberg accused Eva Kristin Hansen of lying about previous decisions in this room in relation to the Working Environment Act. This is wrong. The representative Hansen was right. In this connection, it might be tempting to make a quote from Peer Gynt, but I will leave it. I'm just observing that the Progress Party continues to run from its positions when it suits itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3778	The President would point out that in the case of the concept of a lie, one should have quoted if it were appropriate. It is not normally used from Stortinget's pulpit about co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3781	In the context of the Soria Moria II Declaration, the Government assumes that it will pursue an industrial policy that facilitates innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business. This is initially a good bet no one will disagree with, but for parts of the country this is unfortunately a goal a likely not to make use of due to the lack of network capacity – a network capacity that should have the necessary power supply. For Middle Norway, there is reason to believe that energy deficits have already given a negative effect on new start-ups that are very damaging to the continent, especially since for periods it has been own price ranges with significantly higher electricity prices here than in the rest of the country. In a period of financial crisis with a record in the closure of firms through bankruptcy, start-ups are an element of a somewhat stable employment. It does not help with all the world's good funding and support systems when the foundation of most industries is secure power supply. In this part of the country, competitively exposed industries are strongly represented, and with a demanding financial crisis that is not yet nearing the end, there is reason to call for caution to avoid the loss of these jobs. The degree of self-sufficiency in the area could also be significantly better if the concession treatment period for wind and small power plants had been reduced. Today one sees that it takes five to seven years to deal with the concessions for these measures. It is very critical that it will take so long, and the people of Central Norway feel that the government has failed completely. There must be a target to reduce the duration of treatment to a fifth of the time you are using today. A more permanent solution to the energy problem would be that the gas power plant concession at the two gas landing points, the Nyhavna at Aukra and the Teldbergodden at Aure, will be granted without any requirement for CO2 treatment before this technology takes place. So, finally, a few words about the 420 kV line Fardal–Örskog, which many consider to be what will solve the power challenges in More and Romesdal. The parts of this line in which the transmission line is to be placed are very controversial, as the line, etc. passes through a congested area where a fear of noise and radiation is strong, or in so-called vulnerable natural areas. The demand for wiring is strong among many, and the technology around the wiring option and a lower cost than today depends on a gain volume on it. Many think it would be a good solution to the challenges, and it would remove considerable resistance to the line about a well wired, for example, from Dalsfjorden and put it on the bottom of the sea to Ørskog. The Progress Party therefore calls for a debate on the demarcation between cable and air voltage, and I therefore hope that the Government will bring a case to the Stortinget so that we can take this important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3803	There is a lot that has been said from this pulpit today, and that is said very well. But I've been sitting here for a long time today listening to the opposition. It almost sounds as if the Black Death is about to take us. Such a long lamentation and discontent strategy that you put up here, I have not heard the husband. I wonder one thing: is it so to understand now that you're going to continue with this rhetoric and strategy for the next four years? Then I'm actually going to give you some advice on the opposition: maybe you're going to change the strategy a little bit, so it's going a little bit better next time? The electors have seen them through. I'm going back to the election campaign in 2005. Then the voters were warned of the red hazard, against the red-green ones in the government offices. It was going to be a lot of misery. There was also a warning against contact with LO. The red-greens were concerned with employees' rights, and it was also warned against. The industry was most strongly warned. Unemployment has never been as low as in the period from 2005. We had a lot of employees in this country. The Bondevik government was able to perform with the Progress Party as a supporting party in the period one was put in power, first of all, to weaken workers' rights and weaken the Working Environment Act. The municipalities were starving, and the transport sector with the road network, rail, ports and fairways was in total decline. One was unable to fill up their own national transport plan, as one had suggested. What we did then, with the Advance Party as a supporting party – to be right – was to add SEK 2.2 billion to the national transport plan. What we used was then called air billions by some of the Bondevik II government. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get When you got into the opposition, you had a lot of money that you wanted to add again. This was understood by the voters in 2005, and we gave Norway and the people a new course: More for well-being, more for care, better schools, better childcare facilities, a great cultural promise, and not least the commitment we made to culture, which is so incredibly important for linking this country – both for business and for housing. Then came the election campaign in 2009, and continued with this dissatisfaction strategy, which also didn't benefit the voters at this time. The government has kept the promises and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3822	With the regularity, precision and comfort of today's railway, we should be happy that Soria Moria is not a train station. To an air lock neither goes nor comes the train. As daily commuter to Oslo and Hamar for several years, I am, like many, concerned that the train should go exactly, have sufficient and good comfort and not least that you should be secure sitting space. Today, this is uncertain. The regularity fails, the seating is not for everyone, and my local distance takes longer than ten years ago. It is possible that this is what the Government believes with the Norwegian model. The right has promoted a comprehensive approach to the development of rail in our alternative transport plan. Railways are an important societal task which is an instrument for achieving fundamental goals for the further development of the transport sector, and it is about personal freedom and quality of life, so that you can set up the day to reach work, school, kindergarten and leisure activities. It concerns competitiveness and productivity. Enterprises and employers will have certainty about the availability of their products and services, and not least about a green society. Nature and the environment are around us and with us. The right will have a conscious relationship with the interventions we do, and the damage to the environment, and reduce the adverse effects. Today's and yesterday's government has spent more money than the last bourgeois government, but kilometers of newly built road have become fewer, and some new railroad tracks we haven't seen. For the Right, it is important to develop solutions that point towards a greener society, with smarter and more modern solutions that play along with the environment. In this context, I would like to point to the Right's clarity on the development of double tracks throughout the InterCity triangle: Skien-Oslo-Lillehammer and Oslo-EU, more specifically Kornsjö-Halden-Sweden. The fact that double-tracks can also be used for even faster trains in the future is no contrast to the expansion of the InterCity triangle. Anyway, the train has to stop where people live and where people work. On the right, the huge backlog of both investments and maintenance on the railway side will be regained. Old medicine that the Government has instructed, they intend to continue, but it doesn't help. Competition in the railway sector is important in order to ensure optimal provision of the resources available to users. Competition in passenger transport on Gjøvikbanen has been a huge success. More use of tenders with contractual conditions and penalties may prove to be a more appropriate and effective tool to ensure the quality of public services, for example: universal design rather than statutory rights. The government has many good prose texts in its government statement, a lot of goodwill, but get new moves to address the major challenges for the future. This may be the case with airlocks far outside the stopping points. The right will, on behalf of our citizens, more by rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3845	It's probably to little comfort for Injerd Schou, but the next government train doesn't go until 2013. So it's left to see if the right is also left at the station. The right parliamentary leader, Erna Solberg, said in a reply earlier in the debate that the reason Norway has done so well through the financial crisis is our oil wealth. No, it's not the oil wealth itself that's the cause. That is how this wealth has been managed – from found in 1969 to today – that has created the basis for us having had the opportunity to maneuver so well through the financial crisis so far. In other words, it's politics, not oil, it's about. It is about the policy of Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli who drew attention to the fact that oil resources were to be managed to benefit the entire people. It's about when the Workers' Party stopped Willoch's attempt to weaken Statoil as an important oil policy instrument in the early 1980s. It is about the introduction of the rule of action for the phase-in of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy proposed by the Stoltenberg I government. It is these important political grips that have given us an oil fund we could now draw on, rather than building up large debts. It is the political grip on the rule of action that has prevented oil revenues from being used in such a way that they have strengthened and not undermined the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. The right-hand leader was in his main post concerned about what we're going to live on after the oil age. It is an important perspective to have in current policy as well. If we forget this, the possibilities can be shifted. But this is also the big political challenge of the Right when the party has opened up future government cooperation with the only party that is not behind the rather broad consensus it has been about how oil wealth is to be managed. When the soft cake with which the Right Celebrate election result was digested, the old issues were on the table again: How to build a credible bourgeois government alternative when the big sister – also in today’s debate – stresses that cooperation must be based on “the peculiar nature of the party”, as Siv Jensen expressed it? If there is one thing that particularly highlights the peculiar nature of the Advance Party, it is the relation to the use of oil money. The Trinity is the opposition's debate. What we can establish after this day is that the opposition appears – if possible – even less so now than before the election. Right will continue to cooperate with everyone. The Christian People's Party will cultivate the center and the third way. The party of progress will continue to cultivate its peculiarity. Now, the Progress Party has justly blond to the Christian People's Party by giving one of the two presidential seats to the party, to the Christian People's Party. Then it remains to be seen whether it improves the cooperation climate, or whether this good-blinking was like the last oil Progress Party gave the Christian People's Party before they gave up that party, as they did with the Left. Cooperation requires the ability to focus on the opposite of a particular kind, that is, what collects. That is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have succeeded and gained the voters' trust for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3864	For the Central Party, it's a basic principle that people should be able to live where they want to. Then we must ensure equivalent living conditions throughout the country. The Soria Moria Declaration provides for offensive district policy. It launches a number of new measures, while continuing the important efforts we are already making in the areas of local economy, transport and agriculture. For the Centre Party, it is important to ensure that skills jobs are spread throughout the country. The Soria Moria Declaration states that growth in new state activities will take place outside Oslo. In my home country, Nord-Trøndelag, this will be of great importance in the competition for young people who are looking for work and a place to live after completed education. In order for districts to be a real alternative for more young people to live there, we depend on a greater variety of jobs. Another area that also means a lot to the goal of scattered settlement in our country is predatory animal policy. Around the country, many people experience many predatory problems. In my opinion, the Soria Moria statement leads us many steps in the right direction, sail if we are not completely in the right direction. The government, through the statement, invites the whole Stortinget to a broad settlement to look at the stock targets we have for wolf and bear. I hope that will lead to a reduction in the stock targets that will make it easier for the population of those communities that currently face major predatory challenges in their area. Then it is that both business and private households in scattered residential areas are subject to a competitive disadvantage in relation to central lines, which would involve high network rentals. The centre party has been committed to finding solutions to balance the geographical differences in the network lease. There is no reason why there should be such a big difference between cities and countries. It will therefore be of great importance to many areas in Norway that the Soria Moria declaration now states that electricity grid rentals should be levelled across the country. The declaration shows a direction and provides leadership for the next four years, but also provides good space and many opportunities for an active growth. There is some responsibility for both the position and the opposition. The declaration is only the beginning of the job that has to be done every day of this four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3878	In the election campaign 24 years ago, the Workers' Party promised a health service that worked when one got sick, and an elderly care service that made it good to get old. In 1996, the Labour Party promised full investment in the nursing homes. Anyone who wanted exclusive would get it. In 2005, Jens Stoltenberg said that he would not give a penny in tax bills until the care of the elderly. Then he became prime minister, and the first thing he did was give tax credits to his friends in LO. Now, the Labour Party has been in a majority government for four years, and they have been able to make an impact on anything in practice. Have we then had an elderly care that it shines off? Do we see a quality development in the care of the elderly towards the promise of Gro Harlem Brundtland 24 years ago? Having followed this sector closely since 1973, I would say that the answers to both of these questions are no. I would claim that residents of our old-age and nursing homes were given much better care and not least care before. One of the main reasons is, of course, that patients who are currently hospitalized are much more sicker than they were before. There is a lot of good work done in the care of the elderly, but the daily lives of employees are characterized by little resources and fewer and fewer professionals compared to the tasks to be solved. Saving requirements and changes take the cancers that should have been used to provide treatment, care and care. The losers in the middle of this are the sick elderly who in many cases experience unworthy conditions, lack of stimulation and lack of care. The Party's medicine has not worked through the last decades, but despite it, the Workers' Party promises more of the same thing. Just as they spoke in the 1980s about a electoral guarantee, they are now talking about a guarantee of dignity. Just as in the 1990s they talked about a health home reform, there is now a notice of an expansion of health homes by 2015. The Labour Party has always been good at promising, but their inability to implement and policy solutions is often a hindrance to achieving good results for those concerned, namely the sick elderly. I have noticed that on a few occasions the Prime Minister has stated that everyone who wants to do so will have a place to stay in hospital. I choose to take this as another unexplained statement from the Prime Minister and assume that there is still the need to be able to trigger entitlement to hospitalization. If we are to succeed in such a health home development, the investment grant must be increased considerably, so that municipalities are not repressed to bet on nursing homes. We need to remove the ceiling and issue a commitment authorisation, so that a tight framework at Husbanken does not prevent the municipalities that are ready to invest in hospitalization. I'm excited about the state budget coming tomorrow. The government parties would not be with the Progress Party and would be devoting funds to a pay pot for the women's dominated professions. I therefore expect active and targeted measures to be able to recruit and retain qualified health professionals. Since the government parties are not willing to transfer the financial responsibility to the state, as the Progress Party will do, I expect a strengthening of the municipal economy earmarked the care of the elderly, allowing many municipalities to increase the basic staffing of the institutions and to remove large parts of the unwanted part-time. We are promoting a proposal today in the Chamber, no. 4, on a concrete plan of progress in relation to home development. I hope everyone can join in supporting it. It's not just in Fredrikstad you cut. It is also done in Sarpsborg, which the representative Irene Johansen should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3893	In Soria Moria II, the red-green parties say that they should ensure a high admission of new police students and continue to recruit more women and applicants with a minority background. State Council Solhjell pointed out in the debate earlier this evening that everyone must have good knowledge of basic subjects, such as Norwegian, etc., to meet the challenges of society. In the evening post of 4 September we could read that the government has opened the door for the Police College to grant a derogation from the requirement of grade 3 in Norwegian. This has led to police students with a grade of 2 or worse coming in. According to the school, this means that the student has limited analytical ability and limited understanding of the Norwegian language. In August, 28 out of 32 minority students arrived under special conditions. In view of this, there is reason to be concerned about the future police force of Norwegian communities. Not only is this to set aside really qualified applicants, but you choose to favor someone and give them a easier way into a difficult and tough profession. There is also reason to ask questions about the impact this will have on the environment at the School of Police and when students are going to be in operational service. With more and more serious and tough crime, we must ensure that we train competent police officers. There is reason to take the signals from police officers with a minority background seriously when they say they fear a class distinction inside the police if such practice continues. The Progress Party does not want an A team and a B team of policemen, as it appears that the Government does. It cannot be the case that lower recording requirements are imposed on someone at the expense of others. We need to be sure that everyone who is trained from the Police College has the necessary analytical skills and understands and speaks Norwegian so that the public and public Norway can be guaranteed qualitatively good police resources. Therefore, it is hoped that the Government in its pronounced commitment to several police resources also emphasises competence and quality over quantity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3908	Soria Moria II states that everyone should have an equivalent supply of health services, regardless of housing, economics, gender, ethnic background and individual living conditions. The municipal health and care services shall be able to carry out well-managed preventive work and to provide treatment in cooperation with the specialist services. Prevention shall be given far higher priority than today, not least in order to help reduce health inequalities between different groups. I am very pleased that the government platform is so clearly focusing on reducing health inequalities, on strengthening public health work and on prevention. Norway is today a rich country and a good country to live in. We have great natural riches, good welfare services. 100 years ago, Norway was a much poorer and less developed country, with a low life expectancy. At that time, the powers of government were prioritised, among other things. a large-scale expansion of the public school in Norway. They built expensive schools, with school kitchen and pool and focused on nutrition and physical activity. They saw schooling and education for everyone as a basic prevention measure, and school as a place to strengthen people's health and reduce health differences. Today, Norway is a rich country, where many people experience a high level of private wealth, but we have equally full differences in health and living conditions, and we may be less clear on prevention than we were 100 years ago. The aim of the Central Party is to prevent prevention of all policy decisions in all areas of society, both state, regional and local. We need to use the charging policy to produce healthy food. We must have a healthy meal into the school and kindergarten. We must give municipalities and county councils the means to prioritize public health work. We need to build walking and cycling roads, and we need to create a local environment that fosters physical activity through a coordinated development of land and transport. We need to refresh the school buildings so that all children have a working environment that does not expose them to health risks. Today there are many kindergartens and schools that have not approved indoor climate. We need a restrictive alcohol policy to prevent drug abuse and alcohol-related harm. Prevention is to put measures in place early instead of repairing damage later. It is devastating and the opposite of prevention when children and young people in my municipality have had to experience a year of waiting for access to the PPT, and that there may be an equal waiting time for the child and youth psychiatry. The example of my municipality shows the challenges, and that we need long-term ahead of short-term measures. It also provides for the reform of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3921	The Labour Party made choices to strengthen the Norwegian social model, and that work for everyone is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox The financial crisis has shown us the full importance of the fact that the Labour Party is at the helm of the financial crisis, and our objective is quite clear that Norway should have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe even when the financial crisis is over. It seems that the Government will succeed, and it will have nothing to do with the Right and the Advance Party. Norway shall further develop as a tourism destination, based on its natural and cultural resources. Therefore, these resources need to be taken care of, and one needs to see the tourism industry in conjunction with other important policy areas such as agriculture, culture, transport and district policies. Both North Norway and the West have, in my view, a great potential for further green travel and focus on the importance of tourism as an important district industry. Another important district industry is the agricultural and food industries. Agriculture plays an important role in the construction and employment of large parts of the country. The aim is, of course, to keep up a living and notable agriculture and sustainable forestry throughout the country that provides attractive jobs and secures recruitment, and also secures open cultural landscapes. I am very pleased that the government has announced in Soria Moria that there will be a new growth report on agriculture where all of this is mentioned, including soil protection. The government is pursuing an active industrial policy, and our tool will continue to be strengthened. The jubilee was great when the Stoltenberg government in 2005 followed up with money for municipal nutrition funds. For Sogn and Fjordane's part, we went from zero dollars to a little over 12 million. under Stoltenberg II. Norway is a non-commercial country and was assigned to No. 10 out of a total of 183 countries. I'm proud of that. We have to get back to work, because we're not in the finish line. I am therefore very pleased that Soria Moria has announced a review of capital injections into small and medium-sized enterprises at the difficult, early stage, and that we will look at simplifications for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as stable, sustainable industry framework conditions. This choice was a choice of value, a choice of social direction – the Norwegian model, which includes all, or dark blue politics, where everyone is their own success smith.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3936	As far as the languages of the throne and the declaration of government are concerned, they are both boring and without ambition. I have been told that the representative of the Bjørnflaten is still in the middle of the election campaign, and she continues to serve claims that are so far from the truth that she makes the whole debate a parody. For example, with the promotion party's commitment to transport, Finnmark received six times more money on roads in the NTP period than the government of today has proposed. We also proposed to explore a new coastal route and explore a new E6 trasé from Alta to Lakselv, which would reduce the distance between East and West Finland by 90 km. The government voted against. It seems like the Bjørnface is of the opinion that just one shouts loud enough, or highest, you're right. She may have the opinion, but it does not stand as a believer. Maybe you should say it so that empty barrels fall most. One must wish that there will be light in the houses in Finnmark, but without an efficient transport system it will be difficult for both business and individuals. Traffic is not about yelling the highest, but about taking its own population, challenges and development of society seriously, which this government does not. When the Government declares that the zero vision of the number of fatalities in traffic will govern all parts of the transport sector, this becomes a very hollow rhetoric, especially when you do not follow up with concrete measures such as middle parts and increased motorway development. 256 people died in traffic in 2008, of whom 67 were young people aged 15 to 24. That's 52 pst. more than one year earlier. Bad roads are the ultimate cause of 72 pst. of the fatal accidents in Sweden, according to the Swedish Folksam. Albania has more motorways than us, and Poland and Romania are building 2,000 km each. The Progress Party believes that Norway not only can afford to do the same, but if we are to strengthen the settlement and establishment of business in the districts, it is a prerequisite that we establish an efficient and competitive communications network, both in road, aviation and maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3949	A government statement with great and important visions has been presented for very important areas of society in the future. It is a government statement that says that we should have a climate strategy for the Pension Fund, that we should have a climate strategy for all industrial development, and that we should set ambitious targets for Norway's role both internationally and nationally. It's a government statement that says we're going to increase well-being, for example. establish a right to the place of residence and bet on it; it is a major and important reform. It's a government statement that says we have to start work to get equal pay in place. We will take international initiatives for nuclear disarmament – and a number of other important things. What is the answer we get from the opposition to all of these important challenges? From the Progress Party, we have a lack of answers, to the question of whether there are man-made climate change – to which the leaders of the Progress Party are unable to respond today. From the Right we have received many different answers today, from posts that have been engaged and occupied with the same things as the Government and the SV are, but also some a little more curious posts, such as. The post from André Oktay Dahl, where he spoke violently about that here there was a state that was spreading beyond and growing, which at least frightened him, without saying a single word about what the Right had intended to cut in this pervasive welfare state which was evidently frightening. What, then, is this welfare state that this government is betting on? Well, it's the sick places that older, sick people need. There's hours in school. It's a kindergarten bet that I think everyone in all of Norway today almost takes for granted: that kids should have room in kindergarten when they need it. This is the welfare state that the Right obviously sees as being too much beyond. Or maybe it's the income insurance schemes that we've put in place to ensure that people who are either old or sick and cannot work have something to live with. I think it would have been okay if the big opposition parties now had really dared to be the bourgeois parties as they are, and promote their bourgeois policies, and show people what it is actually they intend to cut in, and not just sit and complain about the important measures that this government and SV are about to put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3962	I want to take these three minutes from a section under the chapter 'Natural diversity and outdoor life' of the Government's political platform. Here's what it says: ‘Norway has a peculiar natural diversity that we have an international responsibility to take care of. [[...]] The Government will ensure that endangered species and natural habitats are protected or adequately protected so that our descendants can experience the same natural diversity as we can.’;» We have here in Stortinget with club seizures agreed on the creation of many national parks and large protection areas. The administration has ensured that it has been implemented and followed up. At the same time, we have said that the municipalities that have been protected by large portions of their land have had to exploit the attraction that this nature is for the development of nutrients in the periphery. This has certainly not been as easy to achieve as the protection itself. On the contrary, we have seen a few times that the administration could be a brake pad for nutritional or development. Then, for example: the proposal for a management plan for Rondane was put forward, there were so strong restrictions on running on Hövringen that the basis for winter tourism was about to be removed. The Government’s platform now states that the Government will ‘strengthen care and management of protected areas and their value creation’. That's very good. I think that there are three areas of particular importance: firstly, local administration, and secondly, economic assistance, for example. in the form of a nutrition fund or by a weighted factor in the distribution of the municipal economy, and thirdly, that the environmental management of the directorate and county are also involved in obtaining this value creation and not only focuses on its role as manager of the protection. The specialized administration must have a greater perspective and see the wholeness of its social tasks. With the opening of Breheimen National Park, we marked an important milestone in the local management of these large local resources. Large protection areas will ensure local administration through an inter-municipal protection area government appointed by the local government. Too small areas are also set up to ensure that municipalities that want to do so are given management responsibilities. The Administrative Board Secretary shall be bound up with the County Council. It is right and important that one through it can ensure that both scientific and experience-based knowledge is used as a basis for administration, but then it is decisive that this does not rock by the fact that it is the municipal administration board that has a decision-making image. Everything else will undermine local trust and the local administration model.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3976	Norway has shifted from hand to high-tech. After many years of decline in the number of employees in industry, figures from the Statistical Centre show that the trend has turned around in 2005. In 2007, it was, if we take the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, 276,000 employees in industry and mining. High-tech competence and world-leading products are sold from many of our export companies. It is enterprises that cannot simply shift increased costs to their customers, whether there is an increase in interest rates or higher cost rates. Let me use the city and the county I live in, as an example. Kongsberg has a unique industrial cluster with important companies and workplaces that, through subcontractors, contribute to the creation of growth and development both locally and for the whole of Norway. Many of our jobs and businesses depend entirely on political will and active industrial policy for the future as well. Clear repurchase agreements for the defence industry have, for example: created what could become a new 40-year industrial venture in the city I live in, and for Norway’s country. In the last period this was finally put on the agenda after a strong political will from the red-green government. Fortunately, this will now continue. There is a great difference between the Right Party and the Propulsion Party's nutritional neutrality and the Workers' Party's willingness to use the industrial policy tools. That's why we won the election -- because people want a society where we split up the goods, where the community dominates, because cheap kindergartens, a common school and tax-funded health services create competitiveness, because people look around in this country and think for themselves. The description of misery we received in the election campaign, which some even characterized as a poison pill for business, was revealed. That's why we won the election. The world is in a very serious financial crisis. Around us, the unemployment continues to rise. Growth is falling, and in many places it is negative. The United States, the eurozone, China and India – major engines in the world economy – have fallen sharply in their economy. Norway is not protected either, although the unemployment rate is now, fortunately, falling again. But we should be very aware that long-term unemployment is not breaking down, and that people are not now facing permanent social security schemes. So finally, a small challenge to the opposition in terms of policy cooperation. You've been busy inviting us to it. But I'm very excited about now: where does the opposition go in this period of government? Where's the Right? Does the right go to a small center or to a very liberal progress party? We shall follow this closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e3989	I started this debate today by asking for some clarifications from the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. I did because I think it is essential for the work in Stortinget and of interest for the further political work how the opposition will work in this period. I record that my questions in the reply correspondence were not answered. This means that we still have an opposition that works in fan form. From the largest opposition party it was announced in the debate in 2005 that they would work for bourgeois alliance construction. There is no such warning here today. In today's debate, the right parties have attacked the Government in most areas. For me, the most surprising attack is that this government is going to be visionless. We want to ensure a safe age for everyone in this country and a sick home for everyone who needs it. Isn't that a vision? We will act among the leading countries in the world to prevent a global climate crisis. Is that pointless? We will further promote the work of North Norway, strengthen the North Region policy as our main strategic area of foreign policy. Is that also pointless? Or is it perhaps that we want to improve school, health care, build roads and tracks and fight crime? I don't think the red-green parties lack visions or projects for the next period. Finally, I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for constructive contributions and invitations to cooperation, including: in the field of climate policy and poverty reduction. I'm glad that those parties look in our direction, and I promise that we'll get rid of it by also looking in their direction. So an explanation of vote on the proposals promoted by the Progress Party. We are going to vote against proposals No. 1–5, partly because these are proposals we are opposed to, and partly because we do not want to give detailed instructions to our own government through decisions in Stortinget. As a case-by-case information, I would also like to mention that Soria Moria II has announced its own issues on renewable energy and its own spillover message on petroleum policy. Then I would like to ask that the proposals No. 6 and 7 are converted into transmission proposals. We think this is a good proposal. It is obvious that the Government should inform the Storting before the Copenhagen meeting. The wording proposed on the Nav Ombudsman is also almost identical to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, and we believe that it deserves good procedural treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4004	Today’s debate has been a debate that has built up conflicts, not a debate where the tone has been quite propitiatory and not divisive. Today's debate has set a pretty good tone for the future work. To our center friends: It has been almost a flirting tone, and flirting is pleasant! For the Central Party, it is an objective that we should be able to find the widest possible political solutions across opposition and position, and it is, of course, a good thing about Norwegian policy that we are able to find good solutions together. Although the atmosphere has been good and cosy here, the political decisions we are about to take together over the next few years can become very demanding. With the turmoil we see in the world, it is really quite incredible that we have not had a more acute political debate. We can only go to our Nordic neighbouring countries to see a completely different political situation. So even though things are going well in Norway now, and we have a good tone in the debate, we will have demanding choices in the future, choices that can be decisive both for our environment, for our future value creation and for the welfare society on which we all want to build. Today's debate gives hope that even in demanding elections, we will be able to find broad compromises across positions and opposition. That's good, and that's some of what's good about Norwegian politics. We look forward to working together to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4013	There has been an interesting debate which, in particular, on the part of the government parties, continues to be the debate of the repeated rafts. That's the time ahead of us, which will show us the real results of the cooperation between the three red-green parties. Then I would like to thank the Labour Party's parliamentary leader for the touching concern she has for the cooperation between the opposition parties. I can promise Helga Pedersen that we will take care of that cooperation, and then I think Helga Pedersen will concentrate on getting agreement between the red-green parties and doing a little more election vows in this election period than you did in the previous parliamentary term. Then there was a desire to submit two proposals. We are happy to meet that on the part of the Progress Party. Then I have also promised Dagfinn Højbråten to change a word in proposal No. 5, i.e. the word «companies» is replaced by the word «undertakings». With those changes, I guess I've also given our explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4023	The representative has Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4026	Most uproar people will probably go home rather than hear me speak now. But I'll say a few words in the end anyway, for this debate has shown an interesting thing about the opposition's way into a new era of expansion. When I came here today, I was excited about what kind of opposition we would see. We've seen an opposition cracking in all directions, and it doesn't know which leg it's going to stand on. The government is then attacked from both the right and the left of the same batches, with a wide range of starting points. Some examples: Siv Jensen said in his first post that the welfare state pretends and described it as a problem, before we got a race of progress party posts in the rest of the debate on good intentions we should spend more money on. The right has presented a kind of compassionate conservatism with which right parties have been successful in Sweden and England. They've been talking about climate, they've been talking about poverty, etc., while we know that the agenda of the right parties who have talked about it, once they've got power, has been cut in welfare and huge tax havens to the richest. SV has been attacked by the Progress Party today for having – as they call it – lost in the asylum case, so we should have agreed to major sanctions in the asylum policy, while the Labour Party has been accused of not actually wanting to carry out any restraints as a counter. And while the Right has been more concerned about the climate than any other party is, and has been released as it is in multiple line exchanges, the Progress Party will still not admit that climate change is man-made. It is an interesting strategy, a kind of fire from many sides – a little coordinated and therefore also a little accurate. It was a recipe with which the bourgeois had little success in the elections that we have behind us, and which I am convinced they will have little success in the future. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that it is the strategic choice of the opposition in this debate. Otherwise, I refer to the explanation of vote given by Helga Pedersen. SV's group will vote in line with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4039	There's an interesting analysis by someone who's going to sum up today's debate, saying that we're on different legs and we're starting to look for governments in completely different countries that were going to conduct a different right-wing policy than the people in this debate have said. That's probably the most common way to argue, that they find a ghost out there that they call right forces, and then they start to argue against that ghost instead of taking over the debate that's going on here and now and the alternative discussions that you have. I still believe that the government gave a poison pill to business last autumn. I think we're going to see the consequences of the government's lack of investment in small and medium-sized enterprises and the taxing through the increase in the wealth tax on active working capital. It is rumored that something will happen in the future that will be interpreted in the various formulations of the platform on the property tax, which both say that everything should be as it is, but that should still be more nutritious. I'm excited to see that development and what's behind it in this platform. The right has no problem with the direction of policy. The right is going to do as we did in the last four-year period, be concerned about finding good policy solutions on matters that are important for the future of this country, which are important for individuals in this country, which is important for all of us. We're going to spend time working with those who want to be part of that kind of development. We're going to cooperate with everyone who wants a direction where children meet a school with better teachers, with knowledge focus, with bets on the future. We're going to work with everyone to develop the Norwegian health system so that the cows go down, with those who accept that it means that we also have to look at a variety of providers and don't think that the big mastodons in health care are what create innovation and innovation, but that can be thought differently. If the Government wishes, we are also prepared to cooperate with it. So far, we've seen it as a special feature that, on the non-socialist side, we're actually in common in thought of diversity, for example. in the health sector and other areas. We're going to be concerned with the development of a better public sector, alongside the fact that the Right is always going to work to ensure that the value base in this country, the safeguarding of the welfare of the future, has a special focus. Because there are so few others who focus on how we make sure that we can pay the bills in the future as well, and that our children will not get too much bills. Now let me give you an explanation of vote -- I might go a little bit beyond that. The right will vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We were going to vote in favour of proposal No. 6 and 7, which have now been converted into transmission proposals. We are not prepared to support proposal No. 2 yet. We've been discussing this topic for several rounds with the Government. We expect the Government to be able to answer the main question: Do they have control or do they not have control? If not, I warn you that we are going to say that this support will be cancelled. But we're not going to vote for it now, because we need a round of treatment in Stortinget. [[President clubs]] If only I can complete the explanation of vote, President. We are going to vote against proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We would like to have a different wording in proposal No. 4, where it says, ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a health home report The Swedish Coastal Agency to state companies’ and not to interfere exactly with the form of funding they should have. [[...]] It will be assessed by the Progress Party. If not, we will also vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4054	It is a little strange after hearing the debate to hear the summaries and how this is perceived. The government has, I believe, met a rather constructive opposition that is prepared to put political issues on the agenda and is prepared to challenge political issues throughout this entire four-year period that is coming. On the other hand, the opposition may have met a government that has been more concerned with the game of cooperation, as they claim to be happening on the other side. I have to say that that an opposition cracks, is probably more natural than the crack we see that the government does, but that's how one can just think about. So until what I recommend to the Christian People's Party group to vote. I recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 against proposal No 2 against proposal No 3 against proposal No 4, but for proposal No. 5 after the change that was made as Siv Jensen explained from the pulpit. And we would be prepared to vote in favour of proposal No. 6, but it is now being sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4063	There was a strange summary of the Workers' Party conducted of today's debate. It is very positive that the Left is seen as a constructive partner – and is expressed constructively. But our main criticism of Regeringa's statement is the same criticism that the same person was very surprised to have received. I have to say, for me, vision is not just about some reforms in our welfare state, but it's about vision far beyond that. In fact, our climate challenges are about what we're going to do, not just about what we're going to buy away from and what others are going to do for us. It is about setting a few longer objectives in relation to research, development and knowledge. It's about actually prioritizing knowledge in the school in front of the SFO. There are a lot of big and important priorities you talk about in relation to these visions. But we in the Left want to participate in processes, and we're going to contribute all the good ideas we have, to better solutions for the Government. So it just has to come to us if it wants good ideas. Then I will make my explanation of vote. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I could also have voted in favour of proposal No. 2, but with the same reason as Erna Solberg, we're going to vote against. We want to have a little bit more thorough review than one sentence on a paper in a throne debate. We are going to vote against proposals No. 3, paragraph 4 and Nos 5th@item: inlistbox We should have liked to have voted in favour of proposal No. 6, but now it's turned into a transmission proposal. So I just want to add some comments to proposal No. 7, which I understand will be sent. It's about the fact that it's actually in this room that the people's representative is sitting. We're now making representations that make the elected ones less valuable. Those who have voted for me have me as their representative. When they're bored by the Norwegian state, I'm going to sort it out. If we end up in a situation where elected representatives just become case handlers on the road, while we make bureaucrats to perform the ombudsman role, we undermine our entire elected system. I believe there should be one representative, and that is the Children's Ombudsman, because children do not have the right to vote. But there's no reason why we're going to get rid of all the problems we have by making agents who are going to take the job away from us. It is our duty as politicians, as elected representatives, and as elected by people's vote, to take on the ombudsman role. We can't buy it away from it. We cannot rely on bureaucratic positions to take care of it. It's our job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4072	It was a wish of Erna Solberg to make some changes to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We're happy to meet them. This means that the wording is as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan of progress by 1 June 2010 for the Government’s full health care coverage target.’ There is also a desire to amend the text of the proposal in proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox We're not going to live up to that. – But proposal No. Four, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4082	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4090	We're going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4098	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party I come back to the changes that have been made in some proposals. Proposals Nos. 6 and 7 have been converted by the proposers into publishers. Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government inform the Stortinget about the Norwegian positions in the context of the Copenhagen climate negotiations.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds in modified form: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess a welfare/nav ombudsman scheme to cover NAV and the social services of the municipality.’ The President proposes that the proposals should be forwarded to the Government without a vote of the facts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4140	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up support for Koran Schools in Pakistan in order to prevent Norway from contributing to the financing of religious fundamentalism.’ The President has not registered any notification of support from anyone other than the party of the proposer for this proposal. Is that correct? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4157	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to provide a social account related to productivity growth and the participation of immigrants in the labour market on the basis of the model of the Danish National Bank.’ No explicit support has been recorded on the part of the President for the proposal made by anyone other than the party of the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4174	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a health home notification by 1 June 2010, showing a concrete progress plan for the Government’s full health home coverage target.’ Here the author has made some changes to the text in relation to the proposal distributed at the place of the representatives in the Chamber. The President believes that it is correctly noted when referring to the proposal as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit an amendment plan by 1 June 2010 for the Government’s full hospital coverage target.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4185	President! It shall be a ‘promotion plan’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4190	Then we change the ‘change plan’ to ‘promotion plan’. Then the basis for votting is clear. With this amendment, the Right has signaled that they want to support the proposal. The President has not recorded that other parties have signaled it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4202	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the transformation of the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Works into State companies and to ensure that these companies receive low-interest government loans.’ This proposal has also been slightly amended. The words «companies» and «companies» have been changed to «undertakings» and «undertakings». The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the transformation of the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Works into State undertakings and to ensure that these undertakings receive government loans at low interest rates.’ With this change, the Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal. The President has not registered that others have expressed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4224	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 154th Great by its opening and notification of the state and government of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-12.ana.ud1258e4244	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened.
