ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e32	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e48	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e55	Let me first underline that we are in arrears in this matter. It should have been treated before Christmas, which unfortunately we have not received. This is due, inter alia, to: that the social committee was not made aware of the situation with regard to the original Ot.prp. No 76 for 2007-2008 and the treatment of Ot.prp. No 82 for 2007-2008 before the evening of 8 December, i.e. only a few days before the Committee was due to give its opinion. I think that's a pity, and I hope we avoid this kind of treatment in the future. Errors may occur, but this also makes it more difficult to deal with them properly. That is why the matter was postponed a little. The issue we are dealing with today is changing the law to combat social security abuse and to increase the effectiveness of the repayment of errors from popular security, as well as to propose an obligation to provide interest to social security recipients after the social security has been paid after the Employment and Welfare Act has failed. We know that the work on preventing and detecting social security abuse is a field of activity both in the Directorate of Labour and Welfare and in the Government, but I would also say that it is a global issue. The law and amendments proposed today are mainly applicable. clarification in order to clarify the requirements to be met by the establishment for the benefit of beneficiaries and health professionals in relation to assisting in the clarification of the case. Childcare schemes and financial institutions are included in the circuit which are required to provide information. It is also clear that private health services also have such an obligation. Provision is made for the extended right to require third-party verification information and on-the-spot verification visits in the event of justified suspicion of social security abuse. Provisions are also made for the mutual exchange of information between the State of Employment and Welfare and the insurance companies in the event of concrete suspicions of social security abuse or fraud. And fees and periodic penalty payments are introduced for persons or institutions who do not provide the information requested by the State of Labour and Welfare. Let me take a look back at how the development of social security abuse has been. In 2006, around 1700 suspected cases of social security fraud were reported to Nav. In 2007, 1449 persons were reported for social security abuse for a total of 182 million. kr. There was a sharp increase in the number of health, disability, rehabilitation and rehabilitation notifications, but also in benefits such as daily allowances, transitional allowances and family-related benefits. discovered that some lied about marriage, pregnancy and single-parent role. If we go to the first half of 2008, Nav reported 405 people for social security abuse totaling 44 million. NOK, and there was an increase of 10 pst. compared to 2007. Most of the notifications concerned the misuse of daily and return money, 209 and 90 people respectively. This only shows that there has been a high level of social security abuse, and that it is a serious problem that should be seriously addressed. That is why I think everyone agrees that the legislative changes that are being made today are absolutely necessary, and there will probably also be a need for new measures as you discover and become familiar with the problem. I also want to refer to a report drawn up on behalf of Nav regarding the North's attitudes towards social security abuse. That report was delivered to Nav in February 2008. It's pretty interesting to notice that the whole 96 pst. The Nordics believe that social security abuse is immoral. It is good over the numbers in Sweden, there is 84 pst. who believe it to be immoral. In addition, I also think it is worth noting that 23 pst. of the Nordics who participated in the survey, they say that they know someone who has received more in social security during the last year than they are entitled to, and that 81 pst. The Nordics believe that the cause of social security abuse is primarily bad morale in those who cheat and that there are too poor penalties. I think it's a pretty strong and good signal to take away from the population, to which we are going to listen, and that also underlines the importance of taking the necessary action now. I also want to refer to what has been achieved in the media in the areas of fraud, and how creativity – if you can use that concept – is practiced among the immoral in this system. Before Christmas we received a thorough documentation of several cases in an evening edition of the Evening Post, where this included. was written about an Oslo man of 34 years who lived happily in Thailand and was paid NOK 110 000 per day. He kept himself hidden in the country, but did so in such a way that he sent the message cards electronically. It shows that the Employment and Welfare Act has taken this very seriously when you start to go in and check IP addresses, and I think it is an important and correct measure. I want to encourage you to become even more proficient at such things to reveal abuse. In addition, we have also seen that a 51-year-old woman for some time ago was convicted in Oslo district court after obtaining considerable funds, including money. for false pregnancy. So you sent someone else and got documentation on pregnancy, and got money out. This is a serious abuse of the welfare systems that we have, and which should be seriously affected. You could have gone through a number of cases like this. I'm not going to do that, we know well about this. These are two of the many that have been rewritten and referenced in the media. I am very pleased that we are now getting a review of today's legislation with a view to preventing social security abuse. There is little doubt that organised and notorious fraud is undermining today’s welfare systems. I would like to stress that the changes in the law must take account of two perspectives. In any case, there are the two perspectives the Progress Party has been very concerned about. One is to tighten up, to tighten up, to punish those who commit systematic, organised social security fraud. The next consideration/spectrum to be taken into account is, of course, what is involved in privacy. The Progress Party suggests in the setting to ask the Government to evaluate a quarantine period. I think it is a pity that the majority in this Chamber do not agree with that proposal. It is simply an assessment of whether it can be an instrument to combat social security abuse in cases similar to those I referred to. This applies to judges who have been declared: whether they are exposed and convicted to a large extent of organised fraud, it is appropriate to consider whether a quarantine period should be introduced. I think it would have seemed very preventative. I think it would have helped to make people think about it again, and in that way it would have been a positive contribution to limiting social security abuse. I would also like to point out – and I see it – that the Employment and Welfare Act and the law now take on board that you want better opportunities to carry out on-the-spot checks. That's something I agree with. I would also like to ask for systems to be put in place and to be even better at performing on-the-spot checks abroad, where we know that there have been major problems. Among other things, there was a look-up in the VG on 17 April 2007 that revealed Norwegian-Morocco social security fraud. With a stricter control and a better control procedure abroad, I think we could have better revealed this and been much more effective. I hope that the Council of State will agree to this, and recommend that he both implement the measures and follow up on the administration, so that such kinds of controls are carried out. I also want to address some of the proposals that the minority have made in the vote. With regard to the first paragraph of Section 21-4, the minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have opposed the proposed concept extension. Like the Data Protection Authority, we believe that such extensive access to information in practice can help to remove the obligation of professional secrecy. The confidence of patients/users in case handlers may be significantly impaired. In such a situation, it can be seen that important information will be withheld in the relationship between patient/user and individual treatment. We feel that it is a pity if the text of the law proposed today would mean it. Furthermore, we disagree with the fifth paragraph of Section 22-15 of the People's Rights Act, which refers to the repayment of taxes. The minority is in line with the hearing opinions and has also noted that, among other things. The LO has issued a consultation opinion which opposes the proposed legislation precisely because in these cases it may result in a refund of an amount greater than that actually received. That's what we think is fundamentally wrong, and we would have wanted a majority for our formulation in that area. In the case of Section 7 of the Labour and Welfare Administration Act, the minority has made a clarification and an amendment proposal there as well. This is mainly not because we disagree with the intention of combating social security abuse, as it is stated, but we believe that we should have added that we should justify why we should deliver the information. There should be clear justification for this. In addition, I believe that the burden of proof should also be on the public side in those cases. Of course, if there is a clear suspicion of social security fraud, action should be taken under the law, but there should be a clear reason for the suspicion, and the data protection perspective should also be taken into account. In the case of § 21-4(b), the Progress Party will oppose. We record that also the Bondevik II government in the merger proposition Ot.prp. No 60 for 2001–02 in the spring of 2002 the right to provide information to the Social Security Agency on its own initiative, without prejudice to professional secrecy, to persons and institutions that may be required to provide information by the Employment and Welfare Act. At that time, the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, opposed the proposal. I record that the sitting government, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, is now behind this proposal which they have twice previously opposed. It might have been interesting to know what's the reason for that. Finally, I would like to point out that an error has occurred on page 28 of the setting in case of an incurrency. As regards proposal No: 1, from the minority, if the first paragraph of Section 21-4, the title of the law we're talking about has been omitted. The correct heading should have been: ‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows:’;» [[People's Security Act]] The same title should have been entered on the same page in the right column for proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox Finally, I would like to refer to proposal No. 1 that goes on § 21-4 first paragraph. The minority agrees with the setting up up to the first sentence and therefore requests that it be voted separately over the first sentence. With these changes, I take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e113	The representative Robert Eriksson then drew up the proposals that he referred to and that have been included in the vote. The incursions that were done well in the post will be corrected, and they will be taken into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e118	The Norwegian welfare community has been built up to become a good safety net that gives us all some kind of income in the periods of our lives when we need some kind of support from society. In our day we see the enormous strength of our health and pension rights as public rights-based schemes. In some other countries, models have been chosen where this type of safety net is linked to private schemes, usually linked to employment. For American car industry, such organisation has proved to have dramatic consequences in the financial crisis we are now experiencing. The pension and health insurance obligations of these enterprises are a heavy burden in these days and create major, additional challenges for both employees and businesses in the future. It is dramatic for any employee who, for some reason, loses his or her income, it is because he or she is laid off or for health reasons cannot work. For Norwegian workers, future income assurance is reduced by public welfare schemes. It is good for the employee, and it is good for a business that today must have both the willingness and the ability to change more and more. A welfare society like ours is not free, well-being has to be financed, and we do it through taxes that are not always paid with equal joy. It is therefore extremely important that the system has popular uproar, that it has legitimacy. Then it's important that the system works, both by giving people the benefits they're entitled to, and by giving people no benefits they don't have the right to. Measures designed to prevent social security abuse and facilitate the recovery of mispayments are therefore important to strengthen the legitimacy of welfare systems and to ensure the continued integration of the welfare society. The Committee strongly endorses the proposals made by the Government in the proposal, but on some points there is disagreement between the parties in the committee, and I would like to comment on some of these. In the bill, the government proposes to remove the right to reduce the amounts that are required to be repaid, with the additional tax due to the default. This is a rule that complicates the treatment of repayment cases. It is clear that it would be a disadvantage for the person who has to pay back an error payment, but we should remember that it is negligence or intentional of the recipient who has triggered the entire fault payment. It is such that the legislation provides for reasonable grounds for fixing the amount of the refund, and that we, who belong to the majority of the Committee, also point out that the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare must facilitate the recipient's access to the tax haven and have a revised tax settlement on the basis of which it is based. We therefore believe that the amendment of the law provides a reasonable balance between the need for effective treatment and the disadvantages that may arise for the person who has received the mispayment. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party propose quarantine time, where they lose the right to social security benefits for a given period of time if they are involved in social security fraud. We have not been able to support the proposal by the Labour Party. The proposal promoted by the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party is, carefully said, unclear as to the extent of a quarantine. Is the quarantine concerned about the misrepresentation of the benefits received, or is it about benefits from the public interest in general? In the January 7 issue of the Newspaper, Robert Eriksson, a representative, provides an example of women’s participation in the issue of health cards for fake pregnancies. He then says: ‘If in such cases one risks being punished by losing the right to maternity and child welfare, I think it would be less interesting to set up a false health card to ensure a friend’s health card.’ I interpret this as talking not only about the quarantines for benefits under the Swedish Social Security Act, but also about other benefits. Today, we have two provisions of the People's Security Act that allow us to refuse benefits. Paragraphs 21-7 provide for the right to refuse or withhold benefits if incorrect information has been provided or withheld. Paragraphs 4 to 28 provide for the possibility of excluding the unemployed from entitlement to daily allowances if incorrect information has been provided. In addition to these provisions, we have clear provisions on the repayment of the incorrectly paid benefits. In the case of gross social security fraud, other provisions of the legislation also provide for penalties. In addition, in our opinion, a general quarantine for public services becomes inappropriate and may give adverse results. The rapporteur's statement was little clarifying what this proposal really means, but perhaps the representative of the Christian People's Party will clarify this in his statement. Nav's right to obtain information raises important data protection issues. The need for data protection controls by the authorities. Normally, it is considered natural that personal health information should be provided in order to obtain, for example: Disadvantages. The balances between the need for control and privacy become more complicated with regard to the right of access to patient records by the State of Work and Welfare. This was strongly debated when the Ministry had no proposals for this for consultation in the autumn of 2007. The debate showed that there was a need for self-regulation on the collection of patient records and rules on form requirements related to general information collection. Such rules have been designed after the consultation and have been submitted as a proposal for a new § 21-4(c). It is also such that requirements for full patient records can only be made when it is likely that this could detect any undue payment and when the establishment has assessed whether this information could not be obtained as easily and as quickly as possible by other means. There is disagreement within the Committee as regards the right of the State of Labour and Welfare to obtain information from more than treatment staff and other providers of social security services, in the first paragraph of Section 21-4. Today's wording at this point is partly out of date, for example: because changes in the organisation of the public sector have led to fewer bodies being covered by the concept of ‘public authority’ than before. The circuit from which information can be obtained is also extended to the scheme of child care. In sum, the Workers' Party believes that the changes provide opportunities for necessary information gathering, and we note that the hearing bodies generally support the changes. The proposal proposes the establishment of a basis for requiring information from third parties and on-the-spot verification. This is necessary to improve the ability of the State of Employment and Welfare to detect social security abuse. The opposition believes that obtaining third-party information is a police task. In the Workers' Party, we note that the Police Directorate in its hearing opinion, among other things. states that social security fraud is complex and cumbersome and that it is appropriate that the Employment and Welfare Act itself be able to carry out checks without the assistance of the police. The point is that it is the State of Employment and Welfare which has professional competence in the field of action and which knows what questions should be asked about and what information is relevant to check when social security abuse is to be detected. The Employment and Welfare Act is also responsible for monitoring payments. Then it is also natural that this department will be allowed to make the job as effective as possible. Paragraphs 21-4(a), second and third paragraphs provide for on-the-spot checks. This means that the agency is given the necessary authority to strengthen its efforts, in particular against black work. We know from experience that black work is particularly common in parts of the food and service industry, as well as in construction. Effective cooperation between public authorities is essential to address these problems. Nav has participated in joint actions with the Labour Inspectorate, the police and other departments where people go into businesses and check the situation. This is an important part of the effort for a decent working life. Black work, social dumping and unworthy employment are more common in some parts of the world of work than we like to think about. Employees are being exploited severely, society is being cheated of tax revenue from unfair social security benefits, and serious players in these industries have no opportunity to compete with those unprofessional. Work on social dumping and decent working life is a high priority on the part of the Workers' Party, and this is an important contribution in this way. Joint actions between Nav and other agencies have resulted in social security abuse and undeclared work and a number of social benefits have been stopped. Now we give Nav the same rights to control that the Tax Statue has today. The opposition wants rules on which documents are required, who can demand them and what is to be done with the documents. The Labour Party has not agreed to this request and the proposal it makes. The personal data collected in such actions are not very sensitive; it is rather that a lack of documents, such as a lack of registration in the Aa register, can cause an dishonest employer problems. In our view, detailed legislation on document collection and handling in such actions would not be appropriate, and could rather place unintentional obstacles to control. Again, I would like to remind you that this type of control is an important task assigned to the Working and Welfare Act. Paragraphs 21-4(b) provide insurance corporations, etc. the right to provide information to the Chamber of Labour and Welfare without prejudice to professional secrecy. This applies to relationships that have led, or may result in, unfair payments or benefits. The Workers' Party supports this proposal and is somewhat surprised at the opposition's reference to Ot.prp. No 60 for 2001-2002 and draft bill No. 87 for 2006-2007 in this context. The Labour Party accepted both of the two proposals mentioned which gave everyone covered by § 21-4 the right to provide information to Nav without prejudice to professional secrecy. In the present proposal there is an insurance company, etc. which is entitled to provide information, while in the two previous proposals the right to a significantly wider range was granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e153	In this case, it is gratifying to note that there is a broad political consensus on the objective of the legislative changes, and I am pleased that the matter can finally be dealt with in the Stortinget today. The foundation of the welfare society is trust — trust between the one in need and the one in need of help, and between the one in need of a right and the one in charge. And most importantly, in order for our tax system to have legitimacy, everyone has to trust that not only should you get help when you have a right to it, but only those who are entitled to help are going to get help. Drug abuse is thus an attack on the whole foundation of our welfare society. Drug abuse creates distrust, and everyone loses on it. Unlawful social security means that a person who is entitled to social security receives less treatment because of sharing the same resources in the administration, and not least because social security abuse weakens the trust of society and of those who receive social security. Therefore, social security abuse is also an attack on those who should legitimately have their social security and benefit. Drug abuse contributes to stigmatisation of the legitimate recipients of social security. It also helps people not to end up in welfare, and the tax system loses its legitimacy. That's some of the background because the matter we're dealing with is important, and I noticed that this was a topic that also the previous speakers were very concerned about. The extent of social security abuse is difficult to say about. Rightly, we have good data on the number of reviews, and how much is revealed through it, and right-wing judges, but one cannot simply assume that this is necessarily the whole and full truth. Today, although better tools are available than before to detect social security abuse, there is reason to be concerned that much is going on that unfortunately is not revealed. We know several grotesque cases that have received significant publicity in the media. That's enough to mention two of them. One is the so-called taxi scandal in Oslo, how many insured people have worked as a taxi driver and cheated considerable amounts over a number of years. We have also seen examples of doctors and psychiatrists writing false medical statements and helping to trick the treatment system. This is serious. The list could, of course, have been considerably longer, but the point is to show that this type of case weakens the basic confidence that we should all have the opportunity to provide assistance under the law, and helps to undermine the confidence of the welfare community as such. Therefore, it is important to detect and prosecute social-security abuse. Many of the measures contained in the Government’s proposals will contribute to this. However, access to information must always be balanced against the legal certainty of individuals. For the right, it is important that privacy is respected. We are therefore sceptical about the opening that the Government uses to collect patient records, and have an alternative proposal for a legal text in the first paragraph of Section 21-4. We are afraid that the opening proposed by the Government can help to weaken the basic trust that must be between patient and treating or doctor in terms of confidentiality of information. In 2004, the Bondevik II Government promoted several legislative proposals that would help to detect social security abuse. One of the proposals voted down was to give the people who, under the law of popular protection, may be required to provide information without prejudice to professional secrecy to the investigative body in the event of substantiated suspicions. This was voted down by the opposition parties at that time. Both the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party voted against that proposal in its time. Since then, the Right and Christian People's Party have proposed the same thing in the current period, but this majority has not been given. I am therefore pleased that this now seems to come about through the changes in the laws we are now dealing with and adopting. But it's a little strange that it would take five years for the proposal to be promoted for the first time, until a majority in the Grand Duchy joins in this. I am pleased that the government parties have now met us at this point, but unfortunately five important years have been lost in the fight against social security abuse in Norway. Finally, we also have alternative legislation on Nav's access to self-injection of information to other bodies. In order to ensure the criterion of a qualified and competent assessment of each case to be disclosed, it should be stated in the legislative text that the information is to be provided by the manager of an office, or designated by the manager, and that the reasons for disclosure should be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e170	Drug abuse is an attack on welfare systems and the welfare state, as several previous speakers have said. I totally agree with that. I would also like to join the post of the representative Henriksen. I fully agree with everything that has been said about how harmful and risky it is for the whole system if there is an abuse of social security benefits. Several have argued that if you want legitimacy for the tax system, this is important. I agree with that. But I just want to remind you that cheating on the treasure is as much stealing from the community as cheating on the social security. It's probably a little bit more hot when it comes to cheating on social security than cheating on the tax, but I think it's important that we see that there are two sides to the same thing. However, because the reactions to cheating on social security are so much stronger, it is all the more important that we put in place schemes to minimise social security abuse significantly. That's what we think this proposition is contributing to. There have been a number of public opinion polls here from previous speakers, including the following: is said that so and so many – I think it was over 80 pst. by the population — thought it was familiar with those who had cheated on social security. I think there are visions that we should be a little careful to attach trust to. I have been away with many things where you have thought something about your neighbor, or someone you know about the job, who has not been right at all, and who has proved not to be correct. I think that the suspicion of everyone else has been easy to be a bit exaggerated, so I don't think there's any reason to put too much emphasis on it. I think it's right, as the representative Engeset said, that abuse of the social security system also infects very negatively on those who actually need it. That one then spreads a position that legitimizes suspecting anyone who needs a performance, in order to behave incorrectly, is dangerous, and we must avoid that. There have been some important discussions about privacy related to this law. It is an important and difficult question, and there are important and difficult balances all the time when this crossroads goes. I believe that the opposition interprets the legal text that is now too far and that it interprets, among other things. This is transparent in patient records in a way that is not justified. I share the concerns that others have related to privacy, but I believe that the legal text we have today is not as open as the opposition believes, but on the contrary related to the cases in which the agency does not otherwise than by getting full access to the journal can go into the whole of the matter and thus reveal whether there has been social security abuse. It's very complicated to detect social security abuse. That's why it's also important that the system is competent and takes great care to inform people who are going to have social security, so that they don't fall into traps without wanting to, because it's actually also possible to do that – everyone who's been close to the system knows that. I shall say a little bit about the one disagreement that is here, about the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party believe that it is to be investigated whether we are going to introduce what, at least in my view, is double punishment, or to deprive someone of a right in the fear of the people. I believe that there are, in principle, strong contradictions to this, because the law, as it is today, as the representative Henriksen said, allows penalties where incorrect information is given in the specific case. However, if this is to be an additional penalty – because one has committed an injustice in a single case, one should also be punished in other cases where one who is a resident of Norway has rights – I believe it is fundamentally wrong. The punishment for a specific case where incorrect information has been provided is correct, but that sentence should not be duplicated. It says something about the principles of the judiciary. The second is that we have to be extremely careful not to deprive residents of the rights they have under the law – because they have to. But they're not going to acquire rights they don't have under the law, and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e185	Nav reported 1449 people for social security abuse for a total of 182 million. kr in 2007. There was a sharp increase in the number of health money reviews, disability pension, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The Christian People's Party sees the need for a tougher fight to expose social security abuse and therefore supports most measures. In spring 2002, the Bondevik II Government promoted a proposal for an authorisation to provide information to the Social Security Agency on its own initiative, without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy, to persons and institutions that may be required to provide information by the Employment and Welfare Office. This will apply in particular to banks and insurance companies. It's not going to be an obligation, it's going to be a voluntary opportunity. I am pleased that the Government is now promoting the proposal again, despite the fact that the government parties have voted against the proposal twice before – in opposition. The new law allows inspectors to require ID cards and access to documents at the workplace. The Christian People's Party hopes that one now prioritises focusing on the clean-up industry. There are some areas of disagreement in the committee, where the Christian People's Party and other opposition parties did not get the support of the government parties. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to consider introducing a quarantine period in cases where it is evident that there has been organised social security fraud, and in cases where there is a serious conviction that serious social security abuse has occurred. We believe that such a quarantine period, in which you lose the right to social security benefits for a given period of time, will be preventative. Any introduction of such a quarantine period must also include those who have contributed to social security fraud. I regret that the parties to the government will not be involved in this proposal. Such an assessment would clarify the demand of the representative Henriksen and the concern of the representative Andersen. The Christian People's Party, like a majority of the hearing bodies, believes that there must be a protection of patient records. The Norwegian Medical Association, the Academics and the State Health Authority consider that there should be rules for the collection of journals. The rules should require disclosure of the purpose of data collection, time or content limitations and who should be able to request records. The purpose of the collection of records is particularly important in cases where the treatment provider is to be investigated. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that there must be a police task, when there is sufficient evidence that something is going on illegally, to enter businesses or to demand information from ordinary citizens about suspected criminal matters. The Christian People's Party wants clear rules for document management and what documents may be required, who in Nav can demand them, whether they can be removed or copied, and what should happen to the documents/copys after use. It is important to implement policies and systems that contribute to the elimination of social security abuse. Christian People's Party supports the intentions of the Government's legislative proposal that Nav can provide information to other administrative bodies on its own initiative, such as the Tax Agency, the police, etc. Such information should only be provided by the Chairperson or by one appointed by the Chairperson at each office. In addition, it is important to stress that such information should only be provided in cases where there is ‘reasonable’ grounds for suspecting social security abuse. We also propose that the legal text itself should include a clear justification for the information being provided. On the basis of professional secrecy and privacy, it is important that sensitive information is not compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e206	As others have pointed out in the debate, social security abuse is an attack on the welfare state. The left agrees that it should be possible to require repayment of unduly paid amounts even when less serious circumstances are the cause of the mispayment. But I would like to point out that the word «understand» or «should have understood» could cover a significant further field. A unanimous committee refers to the fact that the amendments to the second paragraph of Section 22-15 establish, as a principle, that recovery shall be made from the person to whom the payment has been made. Furthermore, it is established that requirements which cannot be met by the recipient can be addressed to a representative who has been negligent. Otherwise there are some changes that I don't fully understand. The proposed change in Section 22-15, fifth paragraph, would allow Nav to recover the entire misappropriation, including the amount deducted in tax. Thereafter, the beneficiary must himself provide reimbursement for the amount of the tax. I agree with, inter alia: LO that is critical of this and considers that it is unfortunate that a refund is required from the recipient that is higher than what he/she has actually received. It is clear that the State of Labour and Welfare is at the heart of preventing and detecting social abuse, as it is this sector that is closest to detecting abuse. I would like to stress the importance of preventing and detecting social-security abuse in order to maintain the emergence of good welfare systems. Earlier in many debates, the left has addressed the delivery of patient records and sensitive material. We are also critical of this. In my opinion, it is very worrying that a large number of agencies, including commercial ones, should have access to private information about us. The link between commercial interests and sensitive personal data is very problematic. I am concerned about a continuing increase in pressure to make it easier to collect, use and keep personal data on health. In my opinion, it is worrying that patients cannot be confident that confidential information will remain between the doctor and the patient. It is essential that health services have confidence in the population. Anxiety and uncertainty may arise when information provided in the confidentiality of healthcare professionals is disclosed to different actors without the patient’s own control. I would also like to point out that the Data Protection Authority also points to the danger that the patient will no longer be able to trust the confidentiality of a doctor or a doctor. It's also a little bit suspicious. The left agrees with the regulatory constraints, but considers that strict rules must be laid down as to who in the Nav system can obtain information and how to obtain it, how to store it and who has access to it. The patient/user must be provided with information about the information collected, the time to do so and what happens to the material in retrospect. Otherwise, part of the debate today is about quarantine. I personally find it a little difficult to understand what the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party mean by this. I understand very well the examples mentioned here by the rapporteur. But I am very much in agreement with what Karin Andersen said about this being a double punishment in many ways, which I find a little difficult to follow. In any case, we must have as a hindrance that those who commit the abuse must be punished. But is it right to ease this over to the social offices that need to help, because they have a claim that, in any case, they have to give to living to help those who get out of bed? Of course you should have your punishment, but some kind of double punishment, like quarantine, I have little sense of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e229	The legislative proposal under consideration today includes changes to the rules on data collection, on the recovery of errors and on interest and compensation in social security matters. The rules on collecting information have been given the most attention in the vote, and I would like first of all to link some comments to those proposals. As regards the collection of information in ordinary social security matters, the main change is the proposed inclusion of rules on how to collect and how to process the information collected. Essentially, these are the rules that would still apply. For example, the rules of the Data Protection Act apply to the processing and retention of data by the establishment, but I think it will be an important sign and intensification that this is done clearly in the law on popular protection. The other amendments are largely about clarifications of what is believed to be the law in force and involve, for example: non-enhanced control activities in ordinary cases. I have noticed that the minority in the committee seems to believe that substantial extensions are proposed as to whom the agency should be able to require information in ordinary social security matters, and therefore cannot support the changes in the Social Security Act § 21-4 first paragraph. The new bodies are financial institutions other than banks and insurance companies, and further child care schemes. I cannot see with my best will that these are particularly expansive extensions, although they may be important enough in some cases. The other changes in the description of the circuit of disclosures are mainly of a linguistic nature, e.g.: the words ‘Entry Norway AS’ are replaced by the words ‘post operator’. However, it is worth noting that, unlike today, complete patient records will not be available for use in ordinary social security matters, nor will it be possible for local social security institutions to obtain them. I also find it difficult to understand the reason why minority comments suggest that the proposals will increase the circle of people with access to health information. Health information used previously in the proceedings of the establishment shall be limited to those dealing with the case. No changes are proposed to this effect, nor is it proposed that health information be passed on to other bodies. The new premises proposed are those which are intended to be used exclusively by the specific control units of the establishment. The aim is to strengthen efforts to prevent and detect social security abuse. Information may be required from anyone who can contribute to the information of the case and may be carried out on-the-spot checks, including random checks. Control units may also, if deemed necessary, require complete patient records. In the setting, the minority raises questions as to whether these are tasks that should be entrusted to the police in whole or in part. In my opinion, the task of the State of Labour and Welfare should be to provide a sufficient basis for entrusting the abuse cases to the police for further investigation. In order to provide this basis, the use of the new home may be necessary. Nor can the police be expected to address matters at such an early stage that they actually become case handlers in the Labour and Welfare Department. I believe that the frontier rise here will resolve in practice, and I have noticed that the police authorities have been positive to the new homes proposed. The legislative proposal provides for the exchange of information between social and financial institutions. The minority in the Committee believes that this is to re-examine proposals previously rejected by the Storting on two occasions. I would like to stress that while there has been a prior warning right for all those who are obliged to provide information to the agency, the proposal is now limited to financial institutions and pension funds. These services can be expected to deal with the right of alert in a fully professional manner, with the minimal risk of misuse. I also stress that this is a much clearer and more transparent arrangement than the previous ones. With regard to information from the Employment and Welfare Act of the private institutions, the legislative text explicitly proposes that no disclosure of the information collected should take place. However, it shall be possible to provide information that a person has attempted to obtain social security benefits on a false basis, and it shall also be possible to provide information on the health or other aspects of the defect. This will be sufficient for the private institution to provide control information in the area concerned. The Ministry will, by decision of the Act, give instructions on the way in which information is to be exchanged. Opinions have been obtained from the Directorate-General for Labour and Welfare and from the General Organisation for Finance. The scheme appears to provide information from the Working and Welfare Session through the specific control units and through corresponding private bodies. These conditions should thus facilitate the proper exercise of the mutual warning right. In this connection, I would like to mention a significant weakness in some of the comments and proposals made by the minority of the committee in the vote. Opinions on the consultation note issued one year before the proposition are not rarely referred to. These opinions are often of little relevance in relation to the proposal, taking into account the views expressed in the preparation of the final proposals. I would like to mention in particular an example of the information exchange proposal. The note from the Progress Party refers to the fact that in the consultation round, the main organisation of the financial industry made it clear that the obligation of professional secrecy in the financial industry would probably prevent information from being provided therefrom. Therefore, in consultation with the Main Financial Industry Organisation, proposals were included in the proposal for changes to the confidentiality rules of the Savings Bank Act, the Business Bank Act and the Insurance Act to open up the exchange of information. Therefore, there is no basis for that comment or the legislative proposal attached to it. There are several examples in the minority comments on such issues. Because of the constraints of speaking time, I can't bring everyone up here. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that minority proposals No. 2, 3 and 5 have already been followed up in the proposition. Minority proposal No. 1 will make information from the Labour and Welfare Act to other administrative bodies subject to clear justification. Following the proposal, the condition for the provision of information is that it will prevent incorrect payment or prevent funds from being deducted from payment. The situation is that the department is aware of the specific risk of such errors, and I believe that the reason is then clear enough. Minority proposal No. 4 raises questions about a quarantine period in case of serious social security abuse. Quarantine is currently used for daily allowances and can also be determined for other social security benefits, but rarely or never. The reason might be that quarantine is less topical outside the daily allowance range. Serious social-security abuse often involves the provision of benefits for which the person concerned did not satisfy the conditions at all and the cessation of benefits. However, I have noted the question, which needs to be seen in the context of the issue of administrative penalties in general, see point 4.9 of the Proposition. I have noticed that there is disagreement as to whether the system of deduction of VAT on recovery should lapse. For my part, I think it is right that the additional burden on the social security budget is required to return, also the part that has been sent the tax receipt as advance payments. Moreover, the VAT deduction has not been identical to the advance, but has been determined on the basis of definitive countervailing tax. There is no direct link with the social security scheme actually paid to the social security scheme. I think it'll give you clearer lines if the social worker himself has to take care of the tax haven. The bill introduces rules on interest rates in cases where the department has made mistakes, and there are refunds that will often apply to long periods back in time. I agree that the implementation of the scheme has taken a long time, and I am pleased that the matter is now finding its solution. As an equivalent to the interest on arrears, it is proposed that, in more serious cases, interest should also be chargeable on the recovery of payments due in error. However, for administrative reasons, this may be done per year. at present, no interest scheme is implemented in relation to the length of the repayment period. The proposal therefore requires a mark-up of 10 pst. of the amount of the error payment, similar to the tax settlement scheme. However, further work will be undertaken to facilitate an arrangement of ordinary interest upon recovery. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the legislative proposal has been supported by the majority of the committee, and to a large extent also by the minority. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of new and better instruments to combat social-security abuse for control units in the Labour and Welfare Act. Because the instruments are new, it is important to follow practices closely in order to avoid possible failures, including: with regard to privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e281	I noticed that the Council of State in connection with the first paragraph of Section 21-4, concerning the collection of information, said that it is difficult to understand that a concept extension has been carried out. I have also recorded that the Data Protection Authority in the hearing opinions pointed out that this could in fact mean removing the obligation of professional secrecy, and that the trust between the user/patient and the case handler is significantly impaired. Does this mean that the Data Protection Authority has also misunderstood the law, as it has been written – that they have not had the competence to assess it? My second question is section 22-15, fifth paragraph. The council said it would be more tidy if the individual himself asked to have the tax refunded. My question becomes: Clearer for whom?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e288	To take the last question first: it's getting cleaner for Nav, and it's getting cleaner for the receiver of the wrong benefit. I have to remind you, as the representative Henriksen had in mind, that the precondition for a person to end up in such a situation is, in fact, that one has received illegal social security. Then I do not think it unreasonable that it is the person who has received the social security improperly, who himself has to clean up the tax haven, instead of Nav having the burden of cleaning up the personal taxpayer. On the first question, my reference went on – I did not use the concept that ‘nothing had understood’, but I could have done so far – that a number of the proposals from the minority actually refer to comments made because of the hearing that was, while the proposition has taken into account the same comments. Therefore, the proposal is different from the draft consultation that was out there. When the proposer then proposes changes that have already been included in the proposition, I also allow myself to point that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e295	Last Saturday we could read in the Evening Post about a city in London that has saved $7 million. kr in social assistance by means of a lie detector. The scheme is now to be implemented throughout the United Kingdom. Clients are warned that the department will go through the economic and social situation with them, and the next day you call and ask questions. More neutral questions do not give rise to any results, while it does appear by e.g. whether the person lives alone or has income. The Christian People's Party sees many challenges by using lie detectors as a complement to the fight against social security fraud. Has this been assessed at all, or is it likely to be considered as a useful tool in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e302	I do not know that before my time in the department it has been assessed to use a lie detector. I am sure, at least, that during the time I have been in the department, it has not been assessed to use lying detectors as a tool to clarify social security fraud. I think this is relatively unlikely – and on a completely different level in terms of control systems, compared to the rigorous, clear, clear rules that we are today largely in the process of adopting together. And that's true!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e307	I'm assuming that the council doesn't stand in the Storting and talk untrue, so we're going to believe what he's saying, and we're going to assume that that's true. I will continue to challenge him on § 22-15 with regard to VAT. As I perceived the Council's answer instead, it would be easier both for Nav and for the user. But there are actually a lot of cases where Nav has calculated the wrong amount of the social security benefits of a user. The user has received too much, and he is then told that he will pay back because it has been done wrong. In those cases, it means, in my opinion, that it is the user who has to clean up these conditions – even in relation to the tax rate – by demanding this refund. So the user is given the task of cleaning up based on errors made by the public – in this case Nav. My question remains: Does the Council of State think that this will lead to a simpler procedure for the user?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e316	Obviously not easier – what I suggested in my first answer was more ‘correct’. But I see the representative's point of view, that the starting point for mispayment is a different one when, as I mentioned in the opposite example, through incorrect information, one has contributed to receiving benefits that one should not have received. Nevertheless, the principle in relation to the Tax Statue is quite important, that things are okay with the Tax Statue. Every year we are made visible and reminded – the representative and I – that there is a personal relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration. Then the most neat thing is that it's the taxpayer that cleans up the relationship with the tax haven.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e323	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e333	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e341	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to draw up clear rules relating to the collection of patient records. The rules should require disclosure of the purpose of obtaining such information, limitations on time or content and who should be able to request patient records.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests that clear rules be laid down as to which documents may be required, who may require them, whether they may be removed or copied and what should be done with documents/copys after use.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing a quarantine period in cases where it is evident that there has been organised social security fraud and in cases where there is a robust judgment that serious social security abuse has occurred. It is requested that the Government return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e833	The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 21-4 and the third paragraph of Section 7 of Section VII shall be replaced by the following: 1 – with the corrections made during the debate – from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 2006 20 on labour and welfare management is amended as follows: [[work and welfare management law]] Paragraph 7, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Information to other administrative bodies may be provided where necessary to facilitate the duties of the State of Employment and Welfare, to prevent any significant risk of life or serious harm to the health of any person, or to prevent any person from being unduly paid public funds or from withdrawing funds from payment to the public where there is clear justification. The first paragraph of Section 21-4 shall be replaced by the following: the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare, the Directorate-General for Health or the Body for Health decides to examine or interview a patient and to provide the necessary statements and statements to check whether the conditions of a benefit have been met or have been fulfilled in periods of time or to check payments under a direct settlement scheme. Information may be obtained from healthcare professionals, other providers of services provided that they do so on behalf of the social security system, employer, former employer, public authority, Posten Norge AS, insurance company, private pension scheme and State Loan Fund for Education and Training, educational institution. Obligations of the disclosure party to do so without remuneration.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e859	It is then votered over the settings in the new section 21-4a, first paragraph. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e872	An alternative is then added between the new section 21-4(b), the title, the first and second paragraphs and proposal No. 5 – with the corrections made during the debate – from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 2006 20 on labour and welfare management is amended as follows: § 21-4 b the heading, the first and second subparagraphs are replaced by the following: § 21-4 b The exchange of information with private pension schemes and insurance companies Private pension schemes and insurance companies may, on their own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, inform the Working and Welfare Act of circumstances which have led to or may result in the payment of social security benefits. [[work and welfare management law]] Where a person has, by intentional or negligent means, received or has sought to obtain payments from the Employment and Welfare Act for which he was not entitled, the establishment may, on his own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, inform a private pension scheme or an insurance company of circumstances which have led or may result in unjustified payments by that institution to that person.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e896	It is then voted over the fifth paragraph of Section 22-15. The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e910	The remainder of I and VII and II, III, IV, V, VI and VIII are then added.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e920	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e930	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08-lower.ana.ud261e1100	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
