ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e20	The President will be allowed to wish all the representatives, the members of the Government and everyone else who works in Stortinget, a really good new year, and to express the hope that even if 2009 is an electoral year, it will be a good year of work for the Stortinget. The representatives of Sverre Myrli, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Thore A. Nistad, Saera Khan and Trond Lode, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The former deputy representative of the South Trondelag County, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has taken the seat. They called for alternates, for Buskerud County Beate Heieren Hundhammer and for Oslo Alvhild Hedstein, have taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 7 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the goods, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud and Stein Knutsen, are invited to meet during the period of leave. Stein Knutsen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Espen Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e52	Councillor Knut Storberget will convey four royal propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e55	Let me first repeat the New Year's greeting on behalf of us who meet from the Government, and wish both the Storting and the President a good new year. May it be good for all of us!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e73	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e94	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – Councillor Kristin Halvorsen – State Council Lars Peder Breck – Councillor Knut Storberget, The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e109	I want to address a question to the Minister of Finance. Let me first take the opportunity to wish the Minister of Finance a good new year. I think it's going to be a demanding year in terms of the ministry of finance, and not least for all the companies and individuals who can be affected by what is the financial crisis. We're likely to see bigger ripples as a result of that crisis in the current year than we saw at the end of last year. I have registered that the government has notified a crisis package, which is due to arrive on 26 January. But as I see it, the government has chosen to brush off some of the opportunities it has already had to do things differently, to be more proactive and to put in action measures at an earlier stage rather than waiting until 26 January. There has been a government budget where more action could be taken than the government chose to take. The government and the majority parties in the Storting chose to stand by the budget that the Government had presented, which was made before you could see what would happen at the downturn that came. We have had the new aging in Stortinget, which was the last thing we discussed before the Christmas holidays, where we had opportunity, and where the opposition parties made proposals to meet the financial crisis. But the government chose not to take that opportunity either. In particular, we see that the construction industry is now hit hard. All 74 pst. of the construction enterprises, manning is forecast in the first quarter. So the package of measures will come on 26 January – and then it will go through Stortinget, which will also take a little while before designing and implementing a possible package. And when so many within e.g. The construction sector is warning of significant downsizing, does the Minister of Finance see that the Government could act more quickly and differently in terms of measures to curb the increase in unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e120	I agree with the representative, Leirstein, that this is going to be a challenging year. It's going to be a demanding year because the effects of the financial crisis on people's jobs and other relationships involving both businesses, communities and individuals are going to challenge the Government and the Storting in ways we haven't seen before. We now have a crisis to deal with that no one in our generation has seen the husband do. Fortunately, Norway has a good starting point, and a better starting point than many other countries. It's because we have money on the book. We don't have to worry about an increased government budget deficit in order to deal with this crisis. We also have a large public sector and many well-being goods that are funded by the tax haven and are not exposed to the fluctuations in the market, for example. people in many other countries who have to save their pensions in unit trusts or have privatised schemes experience. Before Christmas I went through carefully for Stortinget – that was the last thing that happened before Christmas – what we have done so far in relation to the financial crisis. Then there's two main focus that we had in the harvest, which has been very important. One is that we have initially provided an expansive budget for the Storting with 14 billion more oil crowns than what we used in 2008, so there is already a 14 billion package of measures, and a lot of it goes to maintenance. In addition, we were concerned that we would have room for interest rate decrease. And over three rounds, the central bank has reduced interest rates by a total of 2.75 percentage points. If we were to convert it into an impact of a budget, it would mean that we were going to increase the use of oil over the budget by 20 billion new ones. In fact, there is a package of measures in the transition from 2008 to 2009 of nearly 35 billion kroner – and that is a real effort. It has been very important for us to make sure that we have the room for this drop in interest rates, because it has a great impact on the housing market and on businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e131	All parties have agreed that it has been very important to achieve a decline in interest rates. Then we can discuss who will take credit for it. I noted that the central bank's justification for its last major interest reduction was, of course, the state budget presented by the Government, which was the situation we are in. But we are all happy about that, and we also hope that the interest rate can actually go down further in line with what the central bank has announced. If we are to discuss whether that budget and the measures put forward so far by the Government are expansive, the Progress Party will probably have a slightly different assessment of it than the Minister of Finance has, but it will not come as a big surprise. My main question was: does not the government and the finance minister see that the government could actually act faster in some areas, for example: in the construction sector, when we know that the most likely will be large crews? These major projects to be implemented take time. Can't you see that you could do something at some point in the past? I'd like the Minister of Finance to finish it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e140	I do not agree with the representative, Leirstein, that all the parties on the Stortinget have been equally concerned about getting to this interest-rate-reduction room. Because if you use 20, 30, 40 billion more than what the government is doing at any time, you use the space for action that the Bank of Norway has to cut interest rates. I can't say on the heads or on the percent how it would turn out, but remember that an interest rate reduction of 2.75 percent points for a person of 1 million. kr in loans means an increase in purchasing power of NOK 20000 over a year. It's a huge incentive that lies in this decline in interest rates. There are 14 extra, new oil billions in the state budget. It has worked as of 1 January. No one is able to spend that money until we bring in a new package of measures that will also have many devices in relation to maintenance. It's just to start all the projects that are already in the state budget. Around us there has been a lot of talk about crisis packages. Sweden and the United Kingdom have reached the highest level, but otherwise Norway will be among the first countries to promote a crisis package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e149	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e152	Let me also start by wishing the Minister of Finance a really good new year. There can be no doubt that the government is coming late. I hope it won't be too late, but perhaps more important than that discussion is now whether the government will be okay. The last thing I'm more in doubt about. Because what we hear from signals from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is that it's going to be more of the same. It seems like we have a government running in one track. Either it's good times or it's bad times and crisis, it's the same medicine you want to print. In an interview yesterday, the Minister of Finance said: ‘Blue and naïve market foundations are included in the pants down.’ It's probably a very funny point on internal SV seminars, but it's a very poor comfort to the many in private companies that are now losing their job. And that's what my question is about: Has the Minister of Finance understood that it's in private companies along our long coast that unemployment will report?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e166	It is, of course, the opposition's job not at all to take the wave of government and praise and salute us in all respects, but I think the criticism that is being made here by the representative Sanner shoots far beyond goals. When we present our package of measures at the end of January, we will be among the first to propose comprehensive package of measures at the top of an expansive budget. There is a lot of talk about action packages around. How concrete it has been is a completely different matter. Before Christmas, our great concern was that the financing of the companies was about to dry up, and that the banks were not working. We have come up with comprehensive measures to that end. Now we see that it's starting to work. This is particularly important for businesses, for they were the ones who had problems – even profitable projects in terms of funding. So it's just business considerations and big and small businesses that have made us focus on banks working, that there should be room for interest rate reductions. Now we see that we have so far to do, but we're going to have more challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e174	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e177	Yeah, I don't know if I'm going to take the wave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e182	I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e187	That's what we're going to see, but a crisis also gives us opportunities. In my opinion, this government has reaped legitimate criticism to be at the back of the environmental challenges, but now, with a new package of measures around the turn, the government may come a little more on the offensive in that way. Because it's not going to come from the fact that overconsumption, greed and one-sided material focus has been something of the background of the crisis we're actually seeing. That is why we should also use this to turn society and the economy into a more sustainable direction. So my question, positively asked, is: Will the Minister of Finance make sure that the crisis package that will soon be presented contributes to precisely that: turning society and the economy into a more sustainable direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e194	I very much agree with the description given by the Seven for the reason of the crisis. Borrowing-funded over-consumption is a significant part of the cause — and, of course, climate policy is also poor. With regard to how we work with the package of measures, there are three headings here. One is that it should combat unemployment – of course through sensible projects that we want to implement in society. The second is that it has to be as green as possible. This means that proposals that will have an impact on employment and that are part of the transition we know we need to make in relation to new climate challenges – which will be the long-term crisis we are facing – will be high on the priority. The last is fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e201	Alvhild Hedstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e204	Unfortunately, there is today a link between unemployment and greenhouse gas emissions. Often it is the case that low freedom results in high emissions, while higher freedom results in lower emissions. The Minister for the Environment has announced on several occasions, and at the latest on the news today, that the Government's package to meet the financial crisis will also be a package to meet the climate crisis we are in the middle of. However, we are pleased to hear what concrete measures the Government will take that will, in the short term, both prevent increasing unemployment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that the Government's notified crisis package will be a climate package? If she can, I'll ask her to specify what climate action the crisis package will include in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e213	Of course, I would like to have presented here and now a package of measures for Stortinget with all its details and details – but it will arrive on 26 January. We have announced that date because we are still working on what should be the contents of the package. It will help to combat unemployment, because it is a very big concern that people are now out of work – it is resource-loss with the most important resource we have, people. Actions that have an impact on the environment and climate are very important in this context. So I hope that this package becomes as green as possible. There are many unsolved tasks, such as: in the field of energy efficiency improvement, which would mean sensible jobs while pointing forward towards lower emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e218	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e221	I want to start by wishing the Minister of Finance a good new year, me too. In the Advance Party's alternative state budget, we propose a number of measures to limit the impact of the financial crisis, and our budget was among others. referred to by Chief Economist Øystein Dørum as the best adapted situation. In our alternative state budget, we propose DKK 7 billion in increased personal and minimum deductions, DKK 2 billion in increased minimum deductions for pensioners, DKK 10 billion in earmarked grants for transportation measures, DKK 3 billion in earmarked grants for the maintenance of municipal buildings and infrastructure and SEK 600 million. NOK in reduced document fee. Just before Christmas, the Minister of Finance said that neither the Right Party nor the Progress Party had brought some constructive measures in the context of the financial crisis. What the Right has done, the Party itself gets to speak for. But does the Minister for Finance think that none of the above measures are constructive? And does the Minister of Finance deny that some of these measures will also be part of the Government's package of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e230	The economic policy of the Advance Party is to have the stove fully whether it is cold or hot in the room, and it is clear that then you sometimes meet what is actually the temperature. The Progress Party always proposes $20, 30, 40, 50 billion more than what it is doing at any time by the government. It is clear that among the measures taken by the Progress Party, there may be some other proposal that can be assessed in terms of a package of measures – there is no major disagreement among the parties in Norwegian policy. But where our paths are really separated, we're in the profile of tax havens. I believe that fair distribution is a prerequisite for resolving the financial crisis. When the Progress Party proposes to remove or reduce the wealth tax, make other reliefs that mean that heavy tax credits go to those who have the most, I think it's an undermining of the upturn we need on measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e238	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e241	The new year is marked by considerable uncertainty and uncertainty. I have visited many companies together with large parts of the Røjre Storingsgruppe in the new year. We have met with the Joint Alliance, the LO Association, but also with many managers, and it is above all the uncertainty and uncertainty that characterise the companies. Many fight to save jobs. Many are afraid of losing their job. Then, of course, it is important that we have a government that shows the ability to act. The finance minister said earlier today that before Christmas a bank package was presented, and that it is now starting to work. That's also my impression. At the same time, it is a reality that we have moved into a new phase of the financial crisis. So even though the bank package that was adopted works well on the way, it's a reality that companies don't get to borrow money. Many do not get their credits renewed either, and this can have quite dramatic effects. I understand that the Minister of Finance cannot stand here and point to what to do then, but let me point to two means. One is that banks need more responsible loans, so-called hybrid capital. The second is that the State through the State pension fund – Foreign may provide State pension funds – Domestic more capital that enables you to buy corporate bonds. I think there are two instruments that the Ministry of Finance should now consider very actively and seriously. It is perhaps even more important to get this in place than the crisis package that is due to come on 26 January, because if the banks don't lend out money, it will stop most of the time. The Prime Minister already said in mid-December that he feared that profitable businesses could go bankrupt. Is there an impression that the Minister of Finance also has?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e252	I share the concern about how businesses will either receive refinancing or receive funding for new projects in the future. It is not because the measures in the banking package we have already proposed do not work – because it does. We did several auctions last year. We have a plan for how to do that. Seven banks are so far along. It works. What's the new issue is that there are a lot of companies that haven't funded themselves through Norwegian banks. Small businesses have done so, but among the large enterprises, many have financed themselves directly in an international market that has now dried up completely. Then the question is, how can you ensure that they have access to credit, as the representative Sanner describes it? On the last day before Christmas, I went through just this issue for Stortinget, and prepared us that we were going to have new challenges on this. Yesterday I met with the Savings Bank Association and the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation on these issues just to see what the current proposal is to come along. I can't go into details or what kind of different assessments we're doing in that context, but I'm of course taking with me the points of view that the representative Sanner also has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e259	I am glad that the Minister of Finance shows that she has the same reality as the Right and that we also get a clear impression from most companies. We addressed this issue already in November/December, and I am aware that the Minister of Finance pointed it out in the time before Christmas. The time has also come to trade. I'm glad you've now gone away from the track where you shut up on the banks because they don't lend out money. The point is that banks show social responsibility when they are concerned with their own security. That is why we have now reached a stage where it is absolutely necessary to use new instruments to ensure that banks can start lending money again. So let me just say that I perceive the Minister of Finance there until there will be new measures that can help the banks to start lending money again. I hope the finance minister doesn't wait too long before it comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e268	We're not waiting for anything, we're waiting. We are working on high-pressure either measures to combat unemployment, measures to improve the functioning of banks, or measures to ensure that banks operate in areas where they did not actually function before the financial crisis, but which now give them new jobs because the international financial market has dried up. So what is the challenge now, which is going to be the challenge in 2009, and which was the challenge in 2008, is right on time. And it's working continuously and under high pressure in relation to all the issues that can come up. As soon as we have proposals for amendments that we believe are reasonable, they are submitted to the Stortinget. I have good experience of the Storting moving around quickly and dealing with suggestions from the Government. We're going to need such good cooperation in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e273	There will be follow-up questions – first Jørund Rytman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e276	I also wish the Minister of Finance a good new year. I want to point out today's business today. We look at the first page: «Businesses in Panic Capital Hunting». I wonder if the Minister of Finance agrees with the descriptions that Mr Sanner, the representative of the Grandfather, has now come along. Today's Business Today, pages 4 and 5, says that there are only existing, good and loyal customers who are given priority and receive loans from the banks. In other words, new entrepreneurs and large companies who have not been loyal but who have followed the Minister of Finance's earlier call to exchange banks are now being punished. I also wonder how long the Minister of Finance has known that the package of measures, these 350 billion kroner to the banks, was not enough to resolve the banking crisis. If she's known for a while, why hasn't she done anything before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e285	We've already been through a description of the situation that Rytman's representative is now going through. These are the issues we are facing: large enterprises that have financed directly in an international market, and new enterprises that do not already have a good customer relationship. However, the starting point for the bank’s challenge — when the liquidity situation they were in, dried up so that they did not have the opportunity to conduct normal lending operations — has been whether they had the ability to serve the customers they already had. This is how the bank package works after the intention. We have made many adjustments – it works better, but here comes new issues. We've seen them as a challenge for us now. I don't know if Stortinget expects us to be able to solve all the problems in one day and at the same time. I think the most important slogan we can have for 2009 is to do the right actions at the right time. That's why we're working on these issues now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e290	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e293	That's a very important point we're now discussing, because the banking policy package has scared the banks. But it might seem there's been some kind of plug in the system. The package does not help those who really need it properly, e.g. businesses. The Minister of Finance said in the last reply that this package of measures for banks had worked after the presidents. I'm not sure it's quite right, because I believe it so that the Council of State previously confirmed that it's a challenge that this package reaches out to where it is going, and that it works in a good way, and that it's floating in the system, so that the companies that now need capital get capital. Can the Council of State go a little closer to that? So another question: Innovation Norway is an important tool. Has the Minister of Finance considered giving larger loan capital, larger powers, to Innovation Norway's regional offices, just to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e302	With regard to the issue of innovation in Norway or other direct public action against industry, I refer to the package of measures that comes on 26 January in view of the assessment of the use of the State instrument. As for the description of the banks, I think it's important that those who are going to make the decisions in this case understand that here we're going to have different issues at different times. What was the problem in the fall was that the liquidity of the banks stopped – they didn't lend to each other, they didn't lend to businesses. The bank package has so far made a better flow in this respect. Now there are new challenges, especially those that have been directly funded on the international credit market, which have dried up completely. This means customers who Norwegian banks have not had before, but who may now need a good Norwegian banking connection to be able to refinance. It's a new issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e310	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e313	I see it as very positive that the Minister of Finance will come up with further measures. In that context, I want to address a topic related to what's taken up, and that's the fact that we're dependent on having a place to live. Some people make the homes we live in. Some people put the homes in order. That's my impression, through what I've heard, that some banks are now starting to act normally towards normal loan customers with normal security. But we also have signals in the public that the banks do not necessarily see it as their responsibility to contribute to what we can call normal debt financing, intermediate financing of housing. So we're not talking about speculation or risk projects, we're talking about those who just have to feel that it has to work for the system to work. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether she will look at this situation for the banks, so that the banks take their social responsibility in ensuring the medium-term financing of housing, and so that part of the social machinery will also work in this financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e320	I have asked a number of banks about it – directly – because very many ordinary borrowers have addressed that particular issue. The answer I generally get is that the banks have largely not stopped financing, but that of course they make somewhat stricter demands on security than before. I have a very difficult time charging banks to be free in this situation, when one of the reasons for the financial crisis is that you have lent too much money to people that you certainly didn't know could be able to make up for. So the banks have to be able to go this balance sheet, especially in relation to the customers they now have, who are in the trap that they have two dwellings and cannot sell the one they were going to sell. So here it's important that the banks help the customers who are in such a situation to deal with it, but the banks also have to make sure that they don't take unnecessary risk now. Because it's part of the explanation of the international crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e327	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e330	In addition to the construction industry, the shipping industry may be the industry most affected by the fall in demand and by a shaky credit market. The consequence of this is cancellations, cancellations, the absence of new orders throughout the maritime cluster, which makes thousands of employees in this industry feel justified and highly uncertain about the future in 2009. In the context of the transitional arrangement for a new shipping tax scheme, the Government promised that NOK 7 billion of the tax credit of NOK 21 billion could be held as equity in these companies. However, the regulation was almost like a procurator's bill, designed so that these 7 billions cannot be accounted for as equity. The consequence of a knotty credit market is that these companies are facing more borrowing problems, and that of course affects the activity of the maritime cluster. In the light of the financial crisis, will the Government take a closer look at this regulation, as proposed by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e337	There may not be any other industries that are subject to as great fluctuations as the shipping industry. There are probably no other industries that have had such adventurous days or periods — including in 2008 — but the year ended with a decline that has also been very, very special. So big turns are this industry more used to taking than most of the others. We've been concerned that the question about the shipping taxes and tax credits is that NOK 7 billion should be accounted for as equity. We've asked experts from the Bergen School of Commerce to look at the design of the rules for that, and it's about ensuring that the money actually goes to environmental investments. We believe that this is all right. So it's not relevant to make any changes to that regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e344	Then it will be the main question – from Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e347	This seems to be the Minister of Finance's Question Time. We are witnessing a bloody, armed conflict these days. There are serious violations of human rights, and the humanitarian situation is precarious. As so often before, innocent civilians, both children and adults, who are affected, can also document TV images from the acts of war. As in other conflict areas, there is also a clear element of economic interest, often in close contact with the conflicting parties. There are many people who believe that individual companies operate here in a way that, at least indirectly, makes them accomplices in the violation of human rights. Since Norway is also a major financial player in the global financial market and has ethical guidelines that say that we should not invest so that we become accomplices in such breaches, this is an important issue. The conflict I am now thinking of is the war that has been going on and is in progress in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Murder on civilian, mass violence, forced recruitment of child soldiers and nearly 300,000 displaced internally displaced persons has only been fully documented in the last few months. From nature it is a very richly equipped area. Therefore, several major international companies operate here and must necessarily have some relationship with the opposing parties. The absence of an effective, functioning legal state, in combination with the possibility of economic benefits, makes the potential for participation in human rights violations extra serious. In view of the gravity of the situation, will the Minister of Finance take the initiative to carry out a specific review of Norway's investment portfolio and the companies operating in this conflict area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e358	In various contexts, I have taken the initiative and encouraged the Ethics Council to review individual companies that I have received tips on, for many non-governmental organisations, etc. tips on companies that they consider to be either seriously violating human rights or harming the environment. In two contexts, I have asked that you go into rural areas. One was a round we had about the military dictatorship in Burma. The second is now about companies operating in Israel and in Palestine. It is true, as the representative Syversen says, that the ethical guidelines do not concern the countries in which they operate, with the exception of Burma, but it is about whether the companies contribute to the violation of human rights, wherever it may be. And we've excluded companies from that background. Therefore, my initiative towards Israel is not related to Israeli companies, but to companies operating in the areas that it is now talking about, because it is a serious war situation. On the issue of Congo, and also on other areas affected by war, which do not have the same attention right now — for example: Sri Lanka, which is another area of conflict – we do not have the same size of economic activity or equal investment in these areas. But I would like to address the Ethics Council to see if companies active in the Congo are something you should also focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e367	The starting point here is that there's no difference between Tor and Loke. The conflict in Congo affects millions of people, and I think the atrocities can hardly be described. At the same time, this is an area of considerable natural wealth, which means that many have great economic interests in the area. It's also part of the background that there's actually such a conflict there. The Minister of Finance has asked the Ethics Council to explain the Council's work on matters relating to companies operating in Israel and in the Palestinian territories. We have nothing against that on the part of the Christian People's Party. I therefore expect – and see it positively – that the Minister of Finance will take a similar initiative towards the companies operating in the Congo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e376	What is the difference between Israel, Congo and Sri Lanka in this context is that as an investment country, Israel is perceived to be a developed stock market. They are thus part of the so-called Footsie Index, which is the starting point for the investment of the State pension fund. Neither the Congo, Sri Lanka nor any other area in which there is now a war is considered to be such markets. It is therefore much more likely that the Pension Fund has invested in companies operating in Israel than in the Congo or Sri Lanka. But the size of the problem doesn't have to be the starting point here. The gross human rights violations are the starting point when we consider the possible exclusion of companies. I can take a round of other areas of war and the investment of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e384	There will be follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e387	At a press conference on Monday, the Minister of Finance claimed that Israel is occupying Gaza, and that such an occupation is a violation of international law. She further stated that there would be a breach of the ethical guidelines if the State pension fund invested in enterprises that contribute to the occupation. The finance minister comes here first with a claim that it is not coverage for, and then she draws her conclusions based on it. Israel has been blamed for the most part in the last few days. But there is actually no one who has claimed that Israel has re-acquired Gaza. There is a broad consensus on Israel’s intention to wage a ground war in Gaza, namely to destroy Hamas’ military capabilities and the launch ramps used by the terrorist organisation to launch its missiles into Israel. This is a military operation that Hamas has provoked. Even SV – on a good day – believes that Israel has the right to defend itself. Does the Minister of Finance think that Israeli companies, which through supplies and others help their own country's military operation to put an end to rocket attacks, are violating the ethical guidelines of the State Pension Fund? And where in the guidelines is it written that the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to make independent foreign policy assessments regarding which companies Norway can invest in?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e396	There is no controversial international position to point out that Israel has illegally occupied Palestinian territories for over 40 years. It has been pointed out by the UN, distanced from the UN, by the Security Council and many international organisations throughout all these 40 years. So if the Progress Party wants to question it, it is a bit special in the international debate. I understood that the question was about the possible involvement of companies in the violation of human rights or the illegal occupation. I have previously asked the Ethics Council to review individual companies. In this context, we have found that it has not been possible to demonstrate that the companies in question, which have been examined in concrete terms, have contributed. It is not that Israel, if any, is violating human rights, but it is about whether or not the companies are involved. And it's in particular the concept of participation that is crucial in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e403	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e406	In the examination notified by the Minister of Finance of companies in the Palestinian territories, she said to the newspaper Dagsavis: ‘This is not about what the company has done in the past, but about whether there is a danger that the companies in the future will contribute to the violation of human rights.’ The Ethics Council, in its earlier investigation of companies — including Israeli — has concluded that there is no basis for withdrawing investment because it is impossible to prove what someone will do in the future. And it has been a principle that the oil fund should not be used in Norwegian foreign policy. Is it, then, that the Council of State intends to change the mandate of the Ethics Council, so that they can recommend extractions, for example: as at all times the foreign policy preference of the Minister for Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e416	I have to say, unfortunately, that the representative fleet is unimaginably ill informed about what is the ethical guidelines adopted by the Stortinget and that apply today – in this issue. The question of participation and likelihood in relation to participation is at the heart of the Ethics Council's assessments and recommendations in relation to extracts. It's about not using the extraction mechanism to punish companies for what they've done in the past. We use the question of participation because we have created an ethical standard so that our savings do not contribute to, for example. human rights violations, serious environmental damage, etc. It concerns whether the companies can be expected to, for example: have ceased contributing to violations of human rights. So this is a very central point and has nothing to do with the Minister of Finance going beyond the guidelines decided by the Storting. There are assessments by the Ethics Council on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e425	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e428	The left meets the review announced by the Minister of Finance with regard to the issues raised by the previous speakers. Today's guidelines constitute, as the Minister of Finance explained, a scheme that means that we should not invest in companies that have serious environmental damage as part of their activities. I think it may be natural in today's situation to also focus on areas and businesses where a person wants to contribute positively and which may be exposed to increased environmental exposure, renewable energy production, etc. It'll be a good store, it'll be good social ethics, and it'll contribute to a positive development. I would like to invite the Council of State to reflect a little on whether one can use the oil fund precisely to see solutions related both to the financial crisis and to the climate crisis in the context, so that it not only focuses on what one should not be involved in, but that one should also be a more active one. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e439	Now, the representative Kvassheim takes up another part of the ownership exercise in relation to the Pension Fund. It is the Bank of Norway that has the active ownership exercise on behalf of the accumulation and government. There are two headlines here – one is combating child labour, the other is promoting climate. As owners, we participate with others in influencing the company, for example. to play a part in a new international climate agreement and not praise it, as many did in the context of the Kyoto negotiations. Then there is a problem in addition to this in the reassessment of the ethical guidelines, and that is the question of whether part of the fund should have a more environmental investment strategy. It's among the assessments we're now conducting, and I'm going to come back to Stortinget on the spring side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e446	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e449	I have a question for the Minister of Finance in the context of knowledge and skills building as a crisis strategy. Let me start with my own experience. During the Bondevik I government we had a very difficult and serious situation at Aker Verdal. In that situation, the Government chose to use the skills provided to the employees of the company to ensure that they were there to avoid the end of leave — or even worse: with leave of absence. They built skills, they made sure that it was an active part of meeting a crisis. I take it for granted that there is a kind of thinking that the government has with it. But my question goes on. Does the Government and the Minister of Finance see that building skills in a broader way — innovation, a research that stimulates industrial development and the basic research that underpins this business-oriented research that is a prerequisite for industrial activity — can also be an important part of a counter-cyclical policy? I ask that, because it's hardly something that's as socio-economically profitable in every respect as it is to be researched, both in terms of what's at the root of what's going to be practical, and in terms of what's going to be practical and clearly nutrient-oriented. When I say it this way, it's the reason that when we're busy meeting a crisis, we're occupied with very practical measures – we're going to set up buildings, we're going to build skills. And I've learned that one of the most effective things we can do to go across major trends internationally is to build knowledge and research. Then my – and Left – reasoning is that even in a financial crisis, it will be good counter-cyclical policy to actually do what we should otherwise do: to focus on what breaks trends, what goes on across trends, what goes on across crises. So my question to the Minister of Finance is: Does the Minister of Finance agree with such a consideration that an active research policy with an active industrial research is a central element of a counter-cyclical policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e461	I think there are exciting perspectives that the representative Dørum is now drawing up, because it is dangerous in times of crisis to freeze what is and believe that it is reoccurring in the same way when the crisis is just over. This is a time for conversion. It is going to be challenging for many jobs that the international market has shrunk in as it has done in relation to what they have been used to, but it may be a completely different kind of demand that will come back in a while, and we have to hope that it will become much greener and more forward-looking, for example. The main point of view of the measures is the fight against unemployment. In this context, for example: many questions of continuing training. But I agree that you have to have a broader perspective, as Dørum says, because if you're going to bet on research, it's not because there's so many unemployed researchers, but because you want more knowledge about what can happen and what you're going to change to. I agree with the perspective that Dørum addresses. Whether it means new projects or twisting the kind of research we already have, we get back to when we present the package of measures, because these issues I take with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e470	The Finance Minister and the Left share the view that it is important to think in the long term, and to understand that the long term can also have an effect in the short term. The finance minister said just before the weekend, I think it was in today's business, that Norway is better off than most countries when it comes to meeting the crisis. I fully agree with that with regard to the financial strength of the country, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out. But I do not agree on the ability and willingness to prioritise and focus on innovation, industrial research and the basic research that carries out the business-oriented research. We are at the beginning of a year in the situation that we may be at risk of having such a weakening effort because we have received clear reports that universities and colleges are missing approximately. 400 million. kr in order to operate in the manner in which they intend to keep up the activity, to deliver good results and to contribute to the research. Will the Minister of Finance ensure that they can operate without having to struggle with this lack of money, so that the activity is kept up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e479	Now I get a lot of tempting invitations here, you might say, to make different suggestions for different chapters and posts. I have to refrain from that. The independence of higher education institutions in relation to many other public activities means that they have much greater freedom, for example: to transfer profits from one year to another, or to dispose of own resources. Let me also just say that I now often find that many come up with things they have meant, and mean anyway – this time under the heading crisis measures or the package of measures. So we have to be able to clean up what's the main challenge for us in the future. I agree with Mr Dørum on that. It's both about being able to take care of the value we have in Norway when it comes to conversion – because we're very flexible, there's an important reason why we've done so well – and then we have to be able to set up the measures to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e484	There will be follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e487	Unfortunately, this government has not invested much in the UH sector or in the research sector in the last three years. This puts challenges ahead in the university and higher education sectors. Now it looks like it's missing 400 million. kr in order to maintain a proper level of operation. This has not been taken into account by the Government in the 2009 budget, despite the fact that we were already familiar with the economic developments we are now in. When there are downtimes, it turns out that the proportion of students in the higher education sector is increasing radically. As I said, it was not taken into account in the presentation of the budget to this government in the autumn. The question will then be about the Council of State in the crisis package presented later this year, providing the universities with adequate funding in such a way as to take into account the fact that there will be more students in recession.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e494	I now get many invitations to come up with individual questions and individual matters, I can't do that. The issue addressed in this line is, of course, quite relevant in a situation where many people may need to change from one type of education to another. But that's what we'll get back to when the package of measures is there. I totally disagree with the description of the efforts made in relation to universities and higher education. The pension costs incurred by this sector are in line with the level predicted in 2002 when it was given a significantly greater freedom of action than that of all other public enterprises. With regard to wage costs, it is a challenge for a sector that does not negotiate on its own behalf but takes the negotiating results from others and is to finance them. It has been the responsibility of the Financial Committee and the Education Committee at Stortinget for the examination of the budget, and of course we shall... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e501	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e504	An important part of the strategy during the recession in 2001–03 was, as the representative Dørum said, to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses in the future. A measure that was then obvious, and which I believe is obvious even today, is the tax FUNN scheme. The TaxFUNN scheme is almost like a nutritionist cheek egg in the situation we now have. The tax deduction generally provides a strengthened economy in the enterprise. This tax credit goes to work, it's about engineers researching for the future instead of going unemployed. Thirdly, the TAX FUNN scheme strengthens the future competitiveness of enterprises. It is also fully possible to strengthen the TAX FUNN scheme vigorously on a temporary basis. Does the Minister of Finance see that research into businesses and the TaxFUNN scheme can be a very good step, as proposed by the Right in the context of the financial crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e511	I will not exclude that some tax issues become part of the package of measures that comes. But I can neither comment nor comment on individual matters here. But I want to challenge the Storting and the opposition on one more question. It is that if a package of measures is presented which is to be a countercyclical package because it is going particularly poorly, it should contain proposals that can be reversed when the economic cycle re-examines. Many of the proposals for tax changes that I get from the Right and others are not intended as temporary measures in relation to unemployment. There are old proposals that you think in any case, and as those who propose them, never think they should be reversed again. It is certainly not true for this very proposal from the Right, but I remember hearing it before we started talking about action packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e518	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e521	Norway is better off than other countries in these times of crisis because we have financial strength. We're rich in money, but we also have a larger capital, the human capital, which is and becomes more important than all the oil revenues combined. It is important that we bet on the wise minds to be a nation of competence and knowledge – not to employ researchers, but to create tomorrow's jobs. I understand that the Minister of Finance cannot say what comes in the package of measures, we have to lubricate with patience and see. But yesterday, state councillor Tora Aasland said at the Sola meeting that it has never been so important to bet on research as it is right now. She also said that this was not only her message to the conference, but also to her own government. My simple question to the Council of State is: Does the Minister of Finance agree with the responsible Council of State that it is more important than anything else to invest in research now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e529	I agree that the Tora Aasland Council is an intense champion of an incredibly important sector, namely research, universities and higher education. This sector has been given a very competent and eager figure, highlighting the importance of the sector in good and bad days. I don't think she's said that it's more important than anything else, but I think she's said that it's very important in times of these kind of challenges to make sure that we have the knowledge of where to go, which helps us develop further with the flexibility we're going to have. I fully agree with the Aasland Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e534	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e537	I want to awaken the Minister of Justice to the gloom, and will begin by wishing him a really good new year. 2008, which has been much of the theme so far, will be remembered too much. It is likely to be remembered primarily for the financial crisis. Others will remember this for the failure of the Norwegian football team – and the great success of the opposite handballs. For some of us, I think it'll also be remembered for what we can call the politician, which was a hot topic in 2008. For those of us who believe that the police are one of the most important foundations in the state of law, it has been particularly bad to look at what has been the situation. I want to go so far as to say that in some cases I think the population felt like a hostage for a lack of initiative from this government, because you didn't make sure you had the necessary police coverage. I think there's been a big difference in the perception outside of the population about how the political leadership in the Ministry of Justice has described reality. Now, of course, you might disagree with that, but the goal must be to get to grips with it and get to do something about it. There has also been some kind of struggle between the Police Union and the administration of the Ministry of Justice as regards reality, what kind of action to take. Just before Christmas, the Police Union had a hard time setting up volunteers, went to work and took a social responsibility to show that it is possible to find good and common solutions. That night there was more visible police than there has been in the country for a long time. You help prevent more crime, you help get a grip on crime right away, and you help do what we expect the Norwegian police to do; you can be there when you need it, and you can do the job when you need it. After that, I have heard the Council of State say more than once that this government is betting more than ever. Therefore, my question becomes quite simple: When can we expect the government to deliver police coverage at the level we saw that night when PF took responsibility and set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e548	First of all, I have to say that I can comfort the asker that I am awake, and at least in this area. The description given last year by the police in Norway is mildly marked by a lot of black paint. I don't understand that the police in Norway are in a crisis, but there are obviously critical challenges for the police – but a crisis, no. Yesterday and yesterday I had the pleasure of visiting East Finland and West Finland police districts, which report the following: decline in large parts of the crime scene, among others. a very high percentage of information, an 84-day processing period – i.e. within what the Stortinget has set as its objective in several areas – and, as has also been reported, that the posts to be filled in East Finland are 14 new posts, has been awarded to applicants. This does not mean that we do not have significant challenges in the police field in 2009. I believe that the budget presented and adopted and the measures now being implemented in relation to the police will make a significant contribution to this. You're also going to spend over 100 million dollars. kr on a new DNA reform, which was launched last year. It's also going to go to next year. We are also in the year of the arrest that needs to be done to improve police coverage, namely that we have a historically high admission at the Police College. I believe that we are already seeing the effect of this government taking up 600 more police students over the next four years than the previous government did, which actually helps to get more policemen out in the districts and in the big cities. In this way, I believe that the description of the crisis is considerably exaggerated, and that we are now going into a time when we actually have the opportunity to man up to a greater extent than you had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e557	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As far as increased admissions to the Police College are concerned, this is something that Stortinget has consistently agreed to and joined. DNA reform is also an important measure in this way, but it actually assumes that there are people who can do the job – get evidence and actually get it done processfully. It does not help without the presence of the necessary people. So the council says there's a bet going on. Yes, in a district I know well, my own, we had an episode just before Christmas where one was apprehending a guy privately and keeping him close behind locks and hitting for three and a half hours before it was possible to get hold of the police. At my discretion, it is clear that it is unsustainable and entirely in border countries in terms of legality. Salten police district and Helgeland police district report that last year they had a flight of 35 people. So you don't have the ability to fill up at the same level as the take-off. This means that the gap is increasing and that there is a report that the budget also needs to keep jobs on the watch this year. Then my question becomes: Can you expect the crisis descriptions we saw last year, not to be seen this year with the government's bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e570	The police budgets for this year are increasing. Over the time I've enjoyed being a Minister of Justice, the police budgets have increased by nearly $2 billion in nominal terms, in real terms, $800 million. kr. Some of this growth will also reach next year, a real growth of over 200 million. to the Norwegian police and prosecution authority. I have difficulty seeing that it can be described as going in the opposite direction. The answer to all that Ellingen's commendable efforts, not only in terms of DNA, to investigate more issues and get increased clearance percentages, but also in terms of departure, whether there are seniors or police students who don't want to go further, is very much that we have to increase the recordings and train more policemen. Then I have to say that at least it is good that during this period we get such a big boost to train more policemen, as opposed to what we experienced under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e575	To get time for the last main question, there will be a limitation to two follow-up questions on this main question and the next one. Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e580	I also wish the Council of State a good new year. So it's like we obviously hear and record different things when we're out, and I'm worried that, after the many debates we had in 2008, we still can't agree on the situation in the police. So there's a number of problems that they don't cover, and what's a repetition, is that unfortunately it's the prevention work that's going on. We hear that there are major challenges to drugs in Norway. I want to go back to the concrete proposals that came from the Police Union before Christmas, and that I perceived the Council of State met with some formal objections that are quite difficult to understand. This concerns proposals to negotiate new working time agreements – measures that can have immediate effect. I ask now: will the Minister of Justice take the initiative in such negotiations, which from 2009 could give us greater police force and better police coverage in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e589	With regard to the issue of pay and working conditions for the Norwegian police, there is a clear system for this, both in terms of working time and the formation of wages. After finishing last year's pay settlement, the police's joint association went out and said that there was a need for risk-absorbing, for example. I have noticed with interest that even on the Right, just beyond Christmas, some of their positions in this area were reversed and said that it is not appropriate to start negotiating pay off the road. That's my point of view. There are separate processes around making wages, and there is also another department that is going to handle it. It's still going to be like that. With regard to the talks that have been between the Ministry of Justice and the Police and other organisations, they will continue. We are also going to have a meeting on Friday, for example. to discuss the operational review of the Norwegian police and to see how we can get more out of the resources used, and also how we can address some of the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e598	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e601	Well, the situation description and the reality of police Norway are a little different, to say it carefully, from what point of view you have. Nevertheless, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice all the time before a package of measures. There is little doubt that the police have a significant need for investment within their ranks, investments that can also contribute to getting more resources where needed, namely to combat and combat the increasing crime in important areas. So my question is, has the Minister of Justice done exactly the same thing as the State Council of Aasland, that is, given the Minister of Finance good insights into which investment projects can be prioritised in this sector when a package of measures is to be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e609	The answer to the question is yes. Recording done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e614	It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e619	Then the Stortinget goes to the next main question – Elisabeth Aspaker. That's the last main question. The Minister of Finance has therefore confirmed that she has received an enquiry from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e624	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has described a situation in the police where we have a lack of coverage, and where we do not have the personnel capacity that we should have wanted. There are a number of police tasks that need to be taken lightly today – take too easy, in the opinion of the Right – and then the question is: How can we in other ways improve the effectiveness of the police? How can we in other ways release police force to other and priority tasks? If you go to the crew report, the police against 2020, there are several things that are addressed. Among other things, there is a need to: training more, but there is also a concern about the ICT systems in the police. I guess we just have to admit, if we compare the police case to other state agencies, that the police case is behind us. We have to be able to identify many of the solutions in many ways as yesterday's solutions. You're not even in-house well enough online, and you're not even able to communicate with the audience as you should. In a pressurised personnel situation, it is important to be able to take advantage of efficiency gains, including: through modern technology. In Denmark, the public has been able to report via the Internet for several years – probably for many years. The right addressed this in a document No. Eight proposals, discussed in Stortinget on 9 October 2007. The Council of State then explained that it was working on the matter and that it should facilitate electronic notifications also in Norway. In the summer of this year, the Internet edition of the evening post had a matter that I think was a real surprise to all of us, because it said that this spring we are using new online solutions in the police, but we are not able to get this two-way communication with the public. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What is the status of the ICT operation in the police? And how will the Minister of Justice explain that there are new data solutions in the police that do not allow you to handle communication with the public via the Internet?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e637	First of all, I would like to say, with regard to the description of the situation in the police that the representative Aspaker has given many times, I think it is important, given the people's sense of security, to get as accurate a picture of the situation out there as possible. I must say that I think Norwegian press in the last few weeks and months has done a good job describing the situation out in Police Norway, uncoupling it a little from the campaign that is actually run by the Police Joint Association on the pay question. It is nice that when you slow down the campaign, you go to a stage where you also see that in many places you actually have police resources that contribute to a significant decline in crime. It is important to get that aspect out as well. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges. One of these challenges is the ICT situation of the police — clearly. That is why it has been important for the Government to identify areas where it is important to invest and that there is a need for investment in ICT is quite obvious. We can save on that, too. We could get more policemen out in the streets if we had a rational ICT system. So there we have challenges in the future. When it comes to the question of electronic notification, our position is the same as it was last year. We want to get it in place as soon as possible. After the announcements that were just before Christmas, and as the representative asks us, we have re-examined this with the Police Directorate. I assume that this is going to work as fast as you can.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e644	I hear what the council says. But I think it's worrying, if it's the way to get so far into the launch of new websites in the police that they're going to be launched this spring, that the Council of State and the Department up until Christmas – just a few months before the launch – realize that as important functions as this two-way public contact are not taken care of in the phase that you're about to start. So my question to the Council of State is, is it really that the Minister of Justice is no longer ‘hands-on’ with regard to the ICT systems under development in the police? When can the Storting possibly get a statement about when you're thinking about putting in place the systems that the police need to be more efficient, including a description of how much police force this can release when you get the systems up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e651	We follow this up every day and regardless of what the press writes, so to us, it's important what the Police Directorate says. I also see that you now understand this and believe that you should be able to get it in place. As far as the police's business is concerned, we often find that there is a difference between the descriptions in the media and what is actually happening. I am optimistic that this important measure should be put in place so that people can respond to the police. I ask the representative, among other things: Note that measures were taken during the autumn of last year to include: children and young people, with a so-called red button on the Internet, were given the opportunity to report quickly to the police. There are many measures that help people to get in touch with the police more easily than they had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e658	There will be two follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e661	It is reassuring to hear that the Council of State is awake, and it is also reassuring to hear that the Council of State has a good dialogue with the Minister of Finance. I assume that at a time when it is claimed that it is difficult to reach people, alternative measures need to be taken to release and streamline the Norwegian police. One of the things I know the Council of State was in the last period – which I don't think has yet come into place – is investment in armored vehicles in each police district. I believe it was adopted as a follow-up to the NOKAS case, and I even believe that the Stortinget has said that each district should have at least one armored vehicle. Can the Council of State say something about where we stand in relation to that decision? The other thing I know about the state council is that other countries have, but that we don't have, is a so-called handheld PC on board the police vehicle. I know that the Council of State has visited other countries that financially are not in the same league as us, but that have that kind of equipment. I also know that the costs have been calculated. In this country, we haven't come to you. When does the Council of State realize that we can have a system in place for uniformed vehicles to have a PC on board?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e670	It is difficult to specify concrete time in relation to such specific data technology solutions. But I fully agree with the representative Ellingsen that here we have a lot to pick up. As previously mentioned, I visited Vestfinnmark police district yesterday. It was stated that not only did all the employees — including the new students who got there — get a completely new top protective equipment, but they were also ‘locked’ by the fact that there was a district that had good cars. They also got an MP3 player out – not to listen to music, but to be able to interview immediately or use it as a notebook. This is a very good example of technology that helps to save resources. I also believe that there is a lot to save by getting more civilians that can take care of, among other things. transport and detention. There's a lot of work that we've done. This could help us get more police officers to do research and order, which we actually want them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e679	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e683	The left shares the opinion of the Council of State that wages are not distributed during the tariff period. But having a dialogue, as you do now, sees Left as very positive. I'm just as happy as the Council of State that the effect, for example. of high absorption at the end of the last government period gives a happy impression now, and there is a broad consensus to strengthen this. I'll be busy discussing how we can get more security – not because the police are doing a bad job, but because people want security. The other two have been involved in other issues, so I'm going right on the matter, to a theme that I've experienced especially as a capital politician. I've been with the police at work for 15 years, and it's my experience that the police officers who are out in the street – which is crucial for contact with most people – are racing through this service quite quickly, either by moving into an office or moving to other places. Therefore, for a long time, I have been concerned with promoting questions and views about creating decent, pay-for career paths and building skills for these police foot soldiers. Will the Council of State take this along as part of its commitment to the police in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e692	I'll do that. Now that the operational review announced by the Norwegian police is under way, in connection with the dialogue we have had with the organisations, there are several elements there. One element is the career course for those who are out, which I know the representative Dørum has been involved in in many positions. I think it's absolutely crucial that we get to it, and I think that such a review and any action that will help people get more involved in some kind of work developing skills, and you see that it gives status, will be able to infect the work we're doing now to get people to work longer in terms of age. For us, it's absolutely crucial. At the same time, I think that we need that kind of assessment, even when it comes to investigating the issues we think have been difficult, namely, violence in close relationships, the type of crime that has been given low status. How we can give this a career boost, and to the extent that it is also profitable, we will also have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-07.ana.ud416e701	That concludes the oral question procedure. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
