ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e157	The President will propose that Mr Odelstinget deal with the supplementary agenda following case No. 20 on the ordinary agenda. – No objections to this proposal have been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e172	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e181	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on this matter for its good cooperation. By a good process, we have come to an agreement. I will therefore focus in this article on what we agree on. The new adult education law that we are dealing with here today will replace the existing law of 1976. Many have changed since then, and the need for a new up-to-date law is so absolute. The new law will cover student associations, online schools and some of the so-called 6A schools, i.e. those that do not fit into the private school or post school area. A new and up-to-date law also acknowledges the important work of adult learning to which student associations, online schools and 6A schools contribute. Fortunately, lifelong learning and adult learning have increased focus in recent years. The needs are great and the idea is, among other things, to be able to play an even more central role in increasing the competence of adults in the coming years. As the Committee said, it has worked well with the law and made some changes in the light of the signals received from the actors in this area. I will now briefly outline the proposals supported by an overall committee or a majority of the committee. For the purposes of the new fifth paragraph of Section 6, all members of the Committee, with the exception of the Party of Advances, shall include the following additions: «Communities and county councils may provide grants to study associations based on municipal and county plans.» The reason why a majority want this clarification in the law is that there is today support for study associations from individual municipalities and municipalities. Of course, we are positive about that, as well as the 1976 law also points to opportunities for local involvement. A unanimous committee also proposes amendments to sections 17, 18, 23 and 24. All the paragraphs deal with the 6A schools and the changes deal with a certain possibility of purchasing training services, the possibility for schools to define their own value base, access to payment in addition to the free principle and student number requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e203	In reality, there is not much left of the old adult education law of 1976. When it was adopted in its time, it was unique in the context of the world, but gradually much of the law has been incorporated into other laws. The Tron Committee has gone through the role of study associations and gave its position in the autumn of 2007. We are pleased that much of the sample proposed has been followed up in the proposal for a new Adult Education Act. We are also pleased that the name of the law continues, as we believe that it is the most comprehensive of the content of the law. For the Advancement Party, adult training is an important part of the concept of lifelong learning. In budgetary terms, we are committed to prioritizing vocational training and also to mastering disability or disability, and we are positive about the provision of training aimed specifically at pensioners. Here we believe the organisations covered by this law have an important function. It is a concern that the regulatory attachment of important parts of the framework conditions within the adult education field is to such an extent added. It means, in practice, that significant parts of the provisions will not be dealt with in the Stortinget. Even though we have a majority government, and the opposition in many cases feels that the issues are finished chewing and digesting before they get to the Storting, it's like in the breakup between the different political parties you can find the good solutions. This is not least what we see in this matter, where there is an overall committee that makes several amendments to the law in relation to the Government's proposal. However, it is one of these amendments that the Progress Party has not agreed to, as the rapporteur mentioned, and let me comment on it immediately. It is a question of whether municipalities and county councils should be able to grant grants to study associations. From our point of view, we are pleased that there are no legal leads that oblige municipalities to grant grants. This has to do with local self-government. We have noticed that the other parties think it is important to include in the law that municipalities can grant. With respect to reporting, we think this is completely unnecessary. Municipalities have so-called free resources, and if they wish to grant grants to adult education institutions, they are in any case free to do so. We have more than enough laws and rules in this society, and that's not all that can be said, that should be said in law. The right of study associations to use educational facilities free of charge is continued in this Act. The Progress Party supports the law and the principle, but will stress that we are concerned here with the fact that one governing body imposes on another a task that is not financed by the starting point. The use of premises entails a cost of capital for municipalities in terms of building stock and equipment. In addition, there may be substantial staff costs for both the janitor and the cleaning staff outside the core of public activity. We have therefore asked the Department to look closely at this problem when the regulations are to be drawn up, and we assume that there is a great deal of sensitivity in the Department to those who are caught up with this challenge, namely the municipalities. It's as well-known as the one who's wearing the shoe, who knows where it's pressing. The progress party is further satisfied with the emphasis on online schools and the important role they play in the adult training segment. We are of the opinion that online schools will become increasingly important at all levels of education, especially in a country such as Norway, both in order to improve the quality of education and to put it into a lifelong learning perspective. The so-called 6A schools which do not find their place under the Law of Vocational Education or the Private School Act shall be placed in Chapter 4 of this Act. These schools are largely without parallels in public schools, and it is important that they are given the opportunity to maintain their peculiarity. We also see the importance of the law opening up to the purchase of training services, which may be useful in some cases. Furthermore, it is important that schools are not bound by the free principle, even if they do not have the opportunity to make dividends. For these schools, study trips and excursions are often included as part of education. This is known to the students before they begin school, and there is no legal obstacle to the students paying for this. One aspect that we have not mentioned in the comments on this matter is that it is drawn from grants that some schools receive as a result of longer stays abroad for students. Earlier in this Chamber, we have stressed the importance and the positiveness of the internationalisation of education. The practical training these students receive through foreign residence, with transparency in other cultures, including: countries of assistance, we believe in itself to contain positive learning elements. The paradox is that, with the current system, this leads to a significant feature of the government grant. Therefore, in the examination of the revised until Friday, the Progress Party will make a proposal to ask the Government to re-examine the scheme of grants for these schools. We hope, of course, that we get the agreement of the other parties to that proposal. Otherwise, we are pleased that an overall committee has adapted the requirement for the student numbers in Section 24 more to the world of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e224	The bill we are dealing with today concerns, as has been said, both study associations, online schools and the previous 6A schools, all of which are part of adult education. There is basically an overall committee behind the vote. As far as the study associations are concerned, I am pleased with the change that is being made in relation to the fact that there should still be a regional anchoring. This has been the aim of the study federations themselves, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that this is now being implemented. In addition, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, proposes to establish a cultural pot for distribution among the study associations, in line with the recommendations of the Tron Committee. Through such a pot linked to study associations, the learning perspective and the value of building cultural competences in the population are highlighted. Such a grant scheme will be able to capture other activities and training-related actions not covered by current schemes. So to the 6A schools, in the private school agreement, there was agreement that the so-called 6A schools should be moved into a new law. The government put forward a proposal that had some points that needed to be corrected, and most of this is now corrected. I will give tribute to the rapporteur for having been good, constructive and solution-oriented in the dialogue in order to achieve this. We have made changes in several areas. Schools will now be able to purchase training services for smaller educational assignments that the school does not have in its fixed teacher portfolio. This may include, inter alia: are specialists and professionals in special areas for shorter periods. The different characteristics of schools will be recognised and reflected in the law. The school itself will be entitled to define its own value base. Such a defined value base will also have implications for the operation, recruitment and design of curricula, etc. As education is not part of basic education, it is important to clarify that schools will not be bound by the free principle, even if they are bound by non-profit rules. Schools will now be able to charge students for study trips and expenses for projects included in the training and made known in advance to applicants for schools. This also means that reference to the Private School Act, which states that ‘if a school has less than 15 students three years of schooling in conjunction, the approval will be cancelled’. This is too strict for the 6A schools, and that's why what we're dealing with today sets a limit of ten students in the last three years. Finally, it is clarified that the normal rate of grants is set in order to follow certain areas of higher education programmes, such as: study preparation and music training in VGO. These are important changes for the school team that we are very pleased with, and which are not least the schools themselves satisfied with. There are two things I want to highlight in addition. The first goes to the second business. We believe it would be appropriate to make the best use of the resources available to schools. This applies to property and buildings, but also to knowledge and skills. Therefore, a fixed exemption should be granted with the possibility of having a short course, such as a legal establishment in school and the rental of the school’s premises/internet without distinguishing it as a separate legal entity. The second concerns the authorisation system. Today it is said that new schools can be approved after an ‘overall assessment’. I just want to stress what we agreed on in the agreement with the private school law, that applications that meet basic requirements should normally be accepted. So I want this to apply to these schools as well. In this area, this ageing period has been marked by a historical agreement on private schools between the Christian People's Party and perhaps not so much the free school parties, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. I said when the agreement was signed, that the length of the agreement would be measured against how the schools are treated according to the law. I'm afraid there's still a lot to go on here. This is especially true of the Directorate of Education, which one would sometimes think lived a little bit in his own world. At the same time, I would like to say that I have experienced the willingness of the Department and the Council of State to deal with specific matters as well, and I would like to thank them in this way. I am referring to the proposal that is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e254	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e257	I am pleased to note that there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee on the key elements of the bill. The study association has a central place in both the document we are discussing today and in society. There was also a lot of background to the creation of the Tron selection some years ago. One of the recommendations from that selection was to repeal the 1976 Adult Education Act and create a new law. A number of changes are proposed here for study associations, among others. Create a new model to meet a new time. The Education Act of 1976 regulates, in addition to the study federations, the independent distance learning institutions. At the request of the institutions, for example, the name in the laws is changed to web-skylls, and changes are made to them. The new law also covers schools previously referred to as Chapter 6A balls. They are now legally anchored and brought with them their state support. They come under the new laws without having to search again. During the work on the proposal for a new law, the Ministry has had good dialogue with the environments to which the laws will apply, and we have received good and decent input into the hearing. I have also recorded that there has been a good process in the committee during the work on this legislative proposal. Now, when we're going to draw up regulations for the new law, we're also going to focus on contact with the central actors in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e268	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 923]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e285	There is a single committee – but with a slightly different enthusiasm, I would say – that supports the implementation of the Payments Directive in Norwegian law. The issue of misuse of the account and payment instruments and the regulation of cases where the customer himself makes errors in the transfer of payments is also dealt with here, and the changes are supported by the Committee. This Directive strengthens the rights of consumers as a whole. The majority believe that the directive is initially a full harmonisation directive, but that it allows for national specific rules in some areas. This room has been used by the Government, among others. in the case of processing time. This directive introduces a different system from what Norway has today, where it is a null float. Norway has indicated between payment institutions, for example: DnB NOR and Sparebanken NOR as a starting point, while the Directive is based on the payer and the recipient. The Directive does not provide for this null float system, which both the Savings Bank Association and the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation support the full heart. The Directive provides for a day's float, which will generate large additional revenues for the financial industry, at the expense of customers. Since both the Saving Bank Association and the Finance Federation do not wish to change the float rules for transfers domestically, the majority expect that they will be able to find the right solutions to the problem. Nevertheless, we have a lot of understanding that a person may need some time to move around in order to adapt to new rules, and that the time until 1 November 2009 will be in the scarcest of layers. That is why we have introduced transitional rules in line with the paper-based services directive until 2012. The most commonly used example is the payment of house insurance for the consequences of zero float bars for customers. The last day of the last notification, the customer was relieved of the responsibility by delivering the giro to the bank. The same applies to online banking, but there will be no problems with new rules. Burn the house at night, it is the insurance company's responsibility as long as one has delivered the giro to the bank. With new rules, cut-off time will be set, preferably before the bank's closing time, and the customer is not exempt from liability. Burn it at night, it's the customer's problem. For that I have two comments. The first is, is there really banks in Norway today that don't have a PC? The second is, how many of these cases are there in a year? The answer to the first is, of course, that all the banks have a PC, and so they can punch in all the information just like when we pay in the online bank, and the customer is therefore free of responsibility. The second is that there are very few cases. Older people are often used as examples of how they like to deliver to the bank and don't use online banking. Most elderly people deliver giroar in good time before it falls due. At least that's my experience. So this becomes a competition between banks about who takes the best care of older customers who prefer paper-based services. The problem arises when enterprises supply a bundle of gear just before closing time. Today they are sent to BBS for handling, and then one also depends on the mail. The problem is likely to be greatest for small banks, so, as I said, we are giving transitional rules to 2012. The Committee has also asked, in different language options, that if it turns out in retrospect that the Directive is to be interpreted differently, one should return to Stortignet in an appropriate way. Strengthening the consumer's rights is also a matter of supporting a two-week alert to two-month alerts when interest rates are lowered. The savings bank association and the main organisation of the financial industry say that banks are likely to adapt and find other solutions. I even mention lower interest rates to take up longer notice periods or different reference rates. Different reference rates will make it difficult for customers to compare the different offers. A Joint Committee has such faith in the financial industry that we believe that they want customers to be able to compare the products, and that this will not happen. The obligation to provide information before the conclusion of a contract is also extended, and there will be coordination with information requirements under the law on the right of withdrawal in the event of a remote sale. Error while transferring a webbank is handled here and there are two main points that should be highlighted. The first is that the banks are responsible for the security of the Internet banks, otherwise the banks themselves are responsible for errors. The second is that the maximum liability for the customer is set at NOK 12 000. It is important to have regulation in place for those cases where the customer himself makes a mistake when transferring. The Committee has taken note of both the SAVE Bank Association and the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation, but will also show that these were represented in the working group that came forward as the basis for the changes we are dealing with here today. Recordings have also been made in the listening round. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a wrong word in the Committee's comment on page 13, second column, paragraph 8, first sentence. The word "durable" should be "suitable". Someone's been excited about new Norwegian spelling here. The end of the sentence will be like this... "get back to the Storing with this in its own way" - not in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e313	The President expects it to be fixed in the setting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e332	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e341	Today, we are going to deal with changes in the Child Protection Act. Many of the changes are very important and very necessary. As the rapporteur, I would like to stress that many of the changes proposed by the Government are underpinned by an overall committee. On a few points, we do not agree with the Government's proposals for changes, and these I will come back to. Finally, I would also like to say a little – if the time goes by – about the proposal on which the Progress Party stands alone. It is an overall committee which considers it essential for any child growing up in Norway to receive the necessary protection and care. The clear starting point is that this is the duty of parents. Where, for some reason, parents are unable to provide their children with the necessary love and care, they must take public care, either as a supervisor and as a family organizer, or also take care where necessary. The Child Protection Act is based on the minimum principle of intervention, which means that measures should be put in place primarily for the child and the family at home. There is an overall committee which joins the Government’s proposal to evaluate action plans for relief measures. It will not be enough to make a plan of measures and not follow it up. When introducing measures for the child at home, measures may not have the intended effect. Then it is important to catch this up, so that you can offer the child and the family measures that can actually improve the child’s situation. In many cases we have learned that the action plans have been laid down, and then they are not evaluated because it is believed that this works well. Therefore, an overall committee is pleased that an evaluation is now included in the law. The Committee also supports the Government’s proposal to introduce a municipal obligation to justify why young people who have benefited from child protection will no longer receive assistance after the age of 18. The Committee is aware that some young people face difficulties in the transition between being under public care and having an independent life. Some municipalities with a tight child-rescue budget move young people to the social assistance budget and therefore believe that a cost-rescue item has been disposed of. It shouldn't be like that. These kids can feel like the bird that flies out of the cage when they're 18 years old, but reality can come quickly, and then they're totally unprepared to meet the real everyday life. An overall committee believes that this is totally unacceptable. If the public assumes the responsibility of raising a child, it does not end abruptly because if the child becomes 18 years old. You have to help and guide young people to stand on their own feet, and to create their own future. So when the municipalities hereafter give a drop to a youth over 18 years of age, it should be justified, so that the youth has the opportunity to appeal against the rejection. We in the opposition point to earlier proposals for coordination between child protection services and social services that focus precisely on rights, responsibilities and action plans. The Committee also endorses the Government’s proposal for an individual plan for the protection of children. An individual plan for children means formalised cooperation between child protection services and other services, such as: children's psychiatry, play games, etc. It can be seen as a premise that the child should have an individual plan that the child should have a long-term offer of child protection and that care has been taken over by the public. This is the opposition to skeptical. A child may have experienced very traumatic things in his or her life even if it has only a brief offer from child protection. The opposition believes that all children who need it should have an individual plan, which may lead to the need for most children with child protection. A time aspect in this context does not appear to be necessary for the opposition. The Committee also agrees with the Government’s proposal to regulate the centres for parents and children and to clarify the supervisory responsibilities in the law. The Committee is also pleased that the overall supervision of child protection is now being transferred to the State Health Authority. Nevertheless, the different responsibilities may seem somewhat unclear, and it is important that the responsibility is not powdered so that no one really has any responsibility at all. However, this committee is confident that clear guidelines will be found in the Government. The Progress Party has on several occasions made proposals for free and independent child protection supervision. We see that this is a step in the right direction and therefore support the proposal. That's how far we all agree. But then come some changes that are very controversial, and that are difficult, where the opposition has chosen to go against proposals from the Government. Let me do it first. Paragraphs 4 to 21 are concerned with clarifying the criteria for return to care. The opposition here has a different approach. I guess the other parties will explain their views, so I want to talk about the position of the Progress Party. We want to strongly warn against such a change in law. Progress is of the opinion that caution should be exercised to prevent the repatriation of children to biological parents when they are faced with a difficult life situation. Unfortunately, I know a number of concrete examples that children have remained with foster parents, even when biological parents have overcome a mental problem. It shouldn't be like that. We will also refer to several Supreme Court judges who have assumed that children should grow up with their biological parents. When such cases are based on discretionary considerations, individual case handlers who are required to assess the return to biological parents may have closer and closer cooperation with their foster parents and, for this reason, make their assessments on the wrong basis. We are also familiar with cases where there has been such a high degree of achievement in the matter that biological parents have had to go to court to have the child brought back. This does not ensure legal certainty either for the child or for the biological parents. As the Progress Party sees it, this also violates with the slightest intervention principle. Furthermore, I would like to point out what the Association of Advocates writes in its hearing response, where they point out that by tightening the rules on readmission, this could be contrary to European human rights. The district of Oslo and Akershus also have an important point in this respect, namely that there is very little support for private parties. In 11 of the 13 cases, the parents did not agree on a case for repatriation. The Progress Party cannot support anything that could violate human rights or the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Progress Party has on a number of occasions made proposals to wind up the counties. We believe that the ordinary judiciary should handle care-taking matters. That is why we are once again promoting this proposal. It brings me to the next point where the opposition does not support the Government's proposal, namely the increased use of adoption as child protection measures. This is difficult, and it scares me that such a proposal can be promoted and justified in the way the Council of State does. Let me explain: So the government wants to open up to increase the use of adoption as a measure of child protection, and the Council of State answers a question from the undersigned as follows: ‘Since the Ministry’s proposals in the proposals do not concern the issue of opening up access to adoption without the agreement of its predecessors, but concern a question of changing practices under the applicable child protection law, the Ministry did not consider that this convention had to be referred to in the proposal.’;» The Convention referred to is the recently revised adoption convention of the Council of Europe. To the extent that the Advance Party can see, parents are deprived of care, often against parental consent, in order to adopt the child away, and justify the fact that now it is the public that has the care, and thus it is also possible to adopt the child away. In many cases it is against parents' wishes and consent. This considers the Progress Party to be one of the most serious abuses of all. The state takes a child and gives it to someone else. What are the public guarantees that the child actually gets better when we know what a strong bond there is between biological parents and children? How can the public be sure that the biological parents never get out of the problems they have? That the majority chooses to disregard Article 9 of the UN Convention on the Protection of Children from Parental Divorce is held accountable, but this cannot be supported by the Progress Party. Adoption is not a reversible action and should therefore be used with great care. The party of progress is very concerned that opening up adoption as a measure of child protection can actually help the public to take care of younger children without perhaps trying all the necessary measures at home first. That is a reason for having the adoption convention in Europe. The reason is that in some countries the public child took over and sold them on for adoption in other countries. We have to make sure that this can't happen – I'm not saying that it happens, but there must be no possibility that this can happen – and that this gives no opportunity to circumvent different rules and conventions, using arguments made by the Council of State. The Progress Party believes that this is an infringement against children and parents, and hopes that this proposal can be tried before the Human Rights Court. We believe that this bill, in addition to breaking the adoption convention, also violates Articles 7, 8, 9 and 16 of the Children's Convention. We disagree in principle on this matter, and it doesn't get any better when you read in the proposition that if more children adopt, this will help bring down the costs of child protection. I cannot support such statements. All children in Norway should feel safe and as far as possible, have a good time, and money does not mean anything. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e391	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It is now half a minute of tomorrow's meeting time. That means that the meeting is now being cancelled, and a new meeting is set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e423	Through the proposals for amendments to the Child Protection Act that we are making tonight, children’s rights will be strengthened. On a number of points, child protection and other public authorities will be imposed on children better follow-up than is the case today. The Child Protection Service is required to evaluate action plans and relief measures. Such an evaluation will assess whether the measures are sufficiently targeted and lead to a better situation for children. This and a number of other proposals are widely accepted by the Committee. So I want to spend my time on the points of disagreement in the committee. The majority of the committee, consisting of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, agree on the need to strengthen the requirement for repatriation after taking care. Paragraphs 4 to 21 of the Children's Protection Act regulate today when a decision to take care of the child is to be repealed. The basic condition for the suspension is that the parents can provide the child with sound care, but it follows neither the pre-worker nor the legal provisions on the basis of which evidence is required for the assessment of whether the parents can provide the child with proper care. On the other hand, it is assumed in legal theory that at least general probability overweight is required. The majority therefore agree with the Ministry that the law should strengthen the requirements for a broad and thorough review of the various aspects of the case in order to assess the repeal of decisions on care. It is the best of the child who must weigh most when returning to biological parents where appropriate. A review of the 2003 recovery decisions shows that it was rarely used as an argument to maintain decisions on care takeover, that the child was particularly vulnerable or had a special need for care. Rather, it was used as a support argument in those cases where the care of the parents was not good enough. The working party believes that the age of the child, the level of care needs and other aspects relating to the child’s particular situation must be strongly emphasised when assessing the fitness and stability of biological parents. The majority of the Committee considers that current legislation allows for excessive uncertainty as to parental care when returning children to home. This contributes to the risk that we actually bring the child back to a care situation that is not at all sound and that can be directly negative for the child. We therefore support the proposal that the law should specify the evidence required to abolish the take-over of care and that the concept of ‘predominantly probable’ should be used as a criterion for the sound return of children to the biological family. This means that reversal shall not occur if there is doubt as to whether parents can provide the child with sound care. These are children who are initially very vulnerable and who have experienced instability and care failure. These children must be spared being guinea pigs to rebuild broken families. This will result in some depriorization of the biological principle in relation to what is most important, namely the best of children. The government proposes to adjust practices so that more children who need them are given the opportunity to be adopted. Paragraphs 4 to 20 of the Children's Protection Act provide today a basis for the council of children's protection and social affairs to relieve parents of parental responsibility and consent to adoption against parents' will. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party support the proposal to increase the use of adoption as child protection measures. We would like to point out that the proposal is not a legislative amendment, but a change in practice to make more use of adoption in cases of long-term foster home placement and where adoption in such cases will contribute to more predictable and secure child-rearing. We believe it is important to facilitate the promotion and testing of multiple issues for child protection and social issues. A prerequisite for an issue of adoption to be dealt with by the council is that the child protection service in the municipality believes that adoption will be the best for the child. Consent to adoption will only take place after a comprehensive assessment, where the child’s best interests are to weigh heavily. It must be considered as probable that the parents will not be able to provide the child with proper care or that the child has become so connected with humans and the environment where it is located that, following an overall assessment, serious problems may arise for the child to be moved. Research shows that for some children, adoption can provide safer and better growth conditions than long-term foster home placement. Foreign studies also conclude that adoptive children are better off than foster children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e449	Child protection has been a hot topic during this period. There are major challenges related to child protection. I will nevertheless initially credit the Council of State for having shown willingness to act, and to seem credible in its commitment to many of the questions that we have had a little bit of trouble with. In particular, I have to say that I am very pleased that it is now signaled that you will carry out a full review of the rights regulations for children in an institution. So to today's case: Proposals for changes to the legislation regarding increased use of adoption and repatriation after adoption of care currently pose a challenge in relatively few cases. But these are very important issues for those involved, and in these cases one should be careful to believe that one has the final answer to what is right or wrong. Here it becomes necessary to seek a principle approach. The right considers that the introduction of new State guidelines to address the use of adoption as a child protection measure is problematic. The reasons given by the Government for its proposal are that adoption can provide safer frameworks and more predictable growth rates than long-term foster homes. Of course, but some absolute truth isn't. With long-standing foster homes, we talk about child relocations before they have established close relationships with biological parents. It's a weakness that you don't have a system to record how many children under the age of 18 are adopted against the will of biological parents every year, but there's reason to assume that the figure is very low. Nor does it show how many people have applied for adoption without this being granted, and where there is reason to believe that this could have contributed to less predictability and an unsafe framework for the child. Rather, we find something about what makes being an adoptive child rather than being an unborn child very important to the child. This means that we are concerned that on behalf of the child with this proposal for new instructions, we may opt out of the child's biological parents. This is a development in which the legal certainty of the child is impaired. With regard to the assessment of withdrawals following a care assumption, this is also a matter where the weight scale has to be re-assessed with different arguments that speak for or against tightening up a judgement. The Government agrees that, in the event of a care assumption, there should be a general probability balance, but therefore considers that there should be stricter criteria for deciding on a return. This is worrying, which is also pointed out in the hearing. What matters to us is that, where there is considerable uncertainty, we have a small number of children. We believe that in these cases we should allow the doubt to benefit the parents, but that child protection obviously has obligations to provide a close and close follow-up after the repatriation. The right considers that this must also be weighed against the leadership of the European Court of Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child relating to the exercise of power against the individual. We are pleased that the focus now is to care when discovering children who are not being taken care of. However, to care and to alert the authorities shall not be to regard alerts as giving the right to be involved in the matter. We need to be confident that child protection will do what they do when they are notified, and if what is to be done is not done, we need to tackle this without affecting affected parents or children by introducing systems that open up to allow for personal sensitive information to be diverted. Suspects of care failure and lack of careability are hard for parents and must be subject to strict privacy regulations. We understand that where a public intervention is initiated, it is correct that those who have notified it and who have direct daily contact with the child are provided with appropriate information. On the other hand, we disagree that such information should be a right. The introduction of a general feedback obligation can either contribute to the erosion of privacy or, if information is limited, only contribute to an increased bureaucratic burden on an already-pressed sector. I therefore believe that person-sensitive information should only be provided where necessary for the best interests of the child. Finally, I would like to say that we are very pleased that the supervision is now being moved to the State Health Authority. We hope that this will contribute to greater confidence that the supervisory function will be maintained in line with the law, and that there is no doubt about the integrity of supervision vis-à-vis the various actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e475	All children living in Norway have the right to protection and care. All parents want the best for their children, but there are some children who need public care. Child protection is important for children who need action and help. Child protection shall also be a preventive assistance body. Action should primarily be taken on behalf of children and families at home, but not all domestic relief measures are effective or provide the child with the assistance and assistance it needs. That is why it is extremely important, as I have said many times from this speaker, to evaluate the measures in the field of child protection, so that we know that they are targeted and good. When entering a family and possibly taking care of a child, you must be absolutely sure that the measures you take are good and give the child better care and protection. I am therefore pleased that there is now a legal obligation for the Child Welfare Service to evaluate action plans on relief measures. It's very important and very necessary. SV is also very pleased that the Government proposes to introduce municipal duty to justify why young people who have had the help of child protection should no longer receive such assistance after the age of 18. Many young people face difficulties in the transition between being under public care and getting a life of independence. Some municipalities reject specific post-protection measures because they have a sluggish economy. SV believes that it is unacceptable that such a refusal should be made, and is therefore pleased with the Government’s proposal on grounds of refusal, in line with the Administrative Act. It is very important, as I was in the community, that all children under the care of child protection should have an individual action plan. When a child needs public assistance, if only for a short period of time, it is important to have a plan for which measures and the offers are given to each child. In addition to the reason for taking care of the child, where a case has been submitted for inclusion, there should also be an individual plan for the child. If a child has been exposed to something that causes the public to take care of, this means that the child also has special needs to be cared for. The child-responsive child-responsive body shall be responsible for the individual plan and its follow-up. This is a strength for municipal child protection and child care. The government proposes an obligation for child protection to give feedback to the person or persons who come with concerns. In principle, all those who have sent a statement of concern shall receive a general feedback, while notifying parties with information obligations shall be informed whether or not the protection of children has opened investigation proceedings. I believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to achieve good cooperation and a good response apparatus around the child. Child protection is also provided with the possibility of failing to provide such feedback where particular considerations are against it. It feels SV is reassuring. I am very pleased with the government's proposal to regulate the centres for parents and children, as well as that the supervisory responsibilities are now made clear by law. This is a matter that SV has been very concerned about since the last growing-up period, when we proposed this. There are many mothers who are under the care of child protection when they become mothers. What happened when we changed county child protection to state child protection was that this supervisory system fell away. When one child becomes two children, there is no authorisation system or supervision system. It is also good that the overall supervision of child protection should be added to the State’s health surveillance and that this should contribute to increasing the number and quality of supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e494	Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposals for changes to the Child Protection Act. We believe that the proposals will strengthen cooperation between child protection, health care, kindergarten and school, and ensure that vulnerable children are given the right to help before the problems become too large, as well as help to make vulnerable children grow up more secure. The Government proposes that the requirement of proof for return to biological parents be raised from the fact that a return is likely to be in the best interests of the child, to ‘preferably likely’ that a return would be in the best interests of the child. There is disagreement in the professional community as to whether the proposed legislative amendment is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Legal Affairs Committee and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality consider the proposal to be in line with the intention of the Convention, while the Association of Advocates considers this to be in conflict. A child assessed has generally experienced long-term failure of care before it entered foster home. It has had to adapt to a new family and a new life situation. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, more than general probability overweight should be required in order for the biological parents to provide the child with sound care. Furthermore, the Association of Judges is of the opinion that it is likely that, in practice, most judges will already require more than a probability balance for the proper functioning of care for the return of the child. I would like to stress that the general principle of the Child Protection Act is that decisive emphasis should be placed on what is best for the child, not what the parents want. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's proposal. Research shows that for some children, adoption can provide safer and more predictable incentives than long-term foster home placements. If it is considered unlikely that the biological parents will be able to provide the child with proper care or that the child is so closely related to the foster home that moving the child may cause serious problems, the municipality shall consider adoption as a child protection measure. The government proposes to facilitate the increased use of adoption by adjusting the practice. The Christian People's Party supports the increased use of adoption in these special cases in order to ensure the child's most stable life situation. The Christian People's Party wants to go further than the Government in ensuring the right to protection. The government's proposal implies that child protection services are given the obligation to justify why young people who have had the help of child protection should no longer receive assistance after the age of 18. This is a step in the right direction, but the Christian People's Party wants to legislate a right to post-protection until the age of 23. The reason for this is that an investment in after-care for children is very important in view of the possibility of a good transition to work or further education. Children’s protection often need a safe base more than those who have had a stable growth with safe and close relationships and surroundings. Many people experience being thrown out into a reality they're not prepared for. That's why many people are struggling with different problems after they reach the age of 18, in the so-called failure phase. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly proposed to legislate on the right to follow-up protection for all children until they reach the age of 23, in order to give young people who have received child protection measures a better start to adult life. We are now re-promoting the proposal. Unfortunately, the proposal for a statutory right to follow-up protection is supported only by the Left. I shall therefore refer to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e513	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e516	The discussion of proposed changes to the Child Protection Act and the discussion we had in Stortingen after my presentation shows that there is a different political discussion about child protection in Norway today than the one we had a few years ago. In the 1990s, it was about a child-restraint that took the kids. Now these kids are standing up and telling about another reality, about a child's protection coming in too late. The NOVA study has shown the same thing. The children who get early help, and the children who get a lot of after protection, are better off than those who get too little child protection. In recent years, we have increased demands for evidence of care acceptance. That's right. We have also placed increased emphasis on help measures at home. That's also true. To be sent away to an institution with major behavioural problems is not necessarily the key to a solution. Both of these policy objectives in Norwegian child protection have been important. At the same time, however, these objectives have resulted in the biological principle becoming stronger than what has necessarily been politically adopted. That is why we are discussing this in connection with the Child Protection Act. We also say that we want to strengthen the child’s voice in Norwegian child protection when we present these proposals for changes. So to the question of adoption. There are no economic arguments as to why we want to change practices in this area. That is what we are required to do – that we should explain the economic and administrative consequences of any proposed legislative changes that we submit to the Stortinget. We want to adjust practice in line with what has been the final Supreme Court judgment, which has gone in a somewhat different direction from that of the 1990s, where there has been a judge in the direction of the Supreme Court supporting adoption. Of course, it's not going to be the most common form of care take-over, but we know that the kids who are adopted are doing just as well as the other kids. Other countries have a completely different adoption practice than what we have in Norway. Among other things, in the United Kingdom and the United States, they practice adoption to a much greater extent than what we do. We've come to the conclusion that we don't want to change the law now, but we want to adjust the practice. Then we have presented a proposal for amendments to the Child Protection Act, in a draft consultation that the Stortinget does not receive today, but where the consultation deadline expires today, which is about open adoption, that is. adoption involving contact with the biological parents. Then to the question of return after taking care. The reason why we're making these changes is that we know that there's been a lot of issues where children have been brought back to biological parents, and then they've ended up in a foster home or an institution again. It creates a lot of unpredictability. That is why we want to be sure that the care they are brought back to is good. In today's law, as it can be read, it's about 50 pst. the possibility of good care being provided, which is the criterion for being reinstated. I think that is too weak legal certainty for children. That's why we want to change this to a preponderant degree of probability. So to the question of post-protection. We are concerned that post-protection should be the rule and not the exception. The proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party and the Left is about the law enforcement of posterity. I would say that the most important thing is the content of post-protection. Peripheral protection may be visited once a month at a location. It's not safe it's good post-protection, so here I would say that the quality of the post-protection is far more important than a statutory right to post-protection. I would also like to say that many people refuse post-protection when they are 18 years old. That's why we want to write in the law that you should be contacted by child protection when you're 19 years old, in order to evaluate the after-care system and ask about those who said no when they were 18 years old, now they want to protect themselves. In the case of an individual level, it is a question of coordination of actions towards those receiving assistance from several support agencies. It could be disabled, and it could be those who get help from mental health protection. So it is something other than a plan of action and a care plan. Therefore, it would be wrong to demand that individual levels be in place before decisions in the county council. That could delay the matter. I think there has been some confusion in the discussion here about what is the action plan. It is also about something other than the action plan and care plan; it is about an individual plan dealing with the coordination of various relief measures. Feedback to the notifier is not about allowing person-sensitive information to flow, but it is about better coordination of assistance measures for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e542	I have a specific question to the Council of State in the light of the response the Committee received to a question from me whether this was contrary to the new revised adoption Convention. We were told that ‘the Ministry’s proposal in the proposal does not concern the issue of opening access to adoption without the consent of the parents’. When the state takes care of a child, often without the parents' consent, and then adopts it away, isn't it just adoption without the parents' consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e549	I want to make it clear that we are not currently proposing any changes to the law. It is only a change in practice we propose. Therefore, I am absolutely convinced that when we make clear to the municipalities that we want to review practice, it is not contrary to either the adoption Convention or the Children's Convention. We're absolutely sure that what we're doing here is in line with the Supreme Court's final judgment and with all the international conventions. There are other countries that have signed the adoption convention, which have a completely different practice in terms of more adoption than what we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e554	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e558	In this area, there are often many things that we agree on very much. I want to lift some of the fields where we haven't agreed, and say a little about the Left's view of that very thing. It looks like we're very disagreeable about the connection with biology. I believe that we politicians often try to find systems to help the kids who fall outside and who experience terrible things. We're really trying to create systems to catch them, but maybe we should have admitted that all the evil we can't take away. The fact that someone is born with parents who do wrong things, we can never take away political decisions, that's going to be something you have to live with. These kids learn to live with it, and that's what we're going to help them with -- teach them to live with it. We shouldn't think that we can take it away or pretend it's not there, or that the pain should disappear through simple political grips, because it doesn't. A little bit of the starting point for the Left's vote here today is that the biological bonds are there anyway. Children often feel responsibility for their parents, sail parents who make mistakes. Soul parents who fail to be good parents feel responsibility for and coherence with children. Maybe that's the main starting point for what we stand for when it comes to having foster parents adopt. You can probably find a lot of good cases where it's right to let foster parents adopt, but I'd like to take from children the responsibility of having to choose between biological parents and foster parents. Choosing away their parents is a heavy responsibility that I don't want kids to be forced on. I've talked to several foster children who in almost no part of their lives have lived with anyone but the foster family, but where it has nevertheless been difficult to choose from biological parents, sail if they have never really been there for them. I think you're going to try to create a system that makes up the idea of saying that when you're 18, you can choose. Then you're big enough to choose, but then you can also choose to become part of this family as you are in all other areas. I don't think it's time to say that one is good, or the other is bad, but I think we should be very careful about making children choose away their biological parents. The part of the argument that I'm probably most responding to in the proposition, and that I'm almost a little inclined not to believe that the Council of State really means, sail if it says there, is that it'll be cheaper with adoption versus foster home. That it's a cheaper way to take care of the children, I think it's a completely wrong entry point, and I hope that the Council of State doesn't really mean, because that can't be the starting point for whether we use adoption, or whether we use foster homes. That is why we want to vote in favour of the proposal we are in favour of. When there is now a majority for something else, I would like to encourage this to be treated with caution, because this can put children against difficult choices – children who have had to make many difficult choices in the past. I hope that we do everything we can to ensure that those choices are not so difficult – that they have to choose away some, sail if these have failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e573	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e576	It's now that children don't choose their parents. They depend entirely on their parents being able to give them good care. The size cannot decide the happiness of the child, but we have a great responsibility to give children an opportunity to grow up in as safe a environment as possible. I'm not talking about the economic situation in the home being crucial. I'm thinking about care failure. I define that as a lack of love and security. When children are subjected to care failure and abuse, child protection must intervene. The best of the child must always be in focus. In some cases, the best option for the child is to be moved to foster homes. Although we have made it easy to believe that biological parents are the most important ones in children's lives anyway, there is a reason that the child has to be moved. I am very pleased that the Government emphasises that biological parents need to prove to a greater extent that they are fit to get responsibility for the child back. Children shall not be waste balls or test objects. Children must feel safe, and that is of course a reason why biological parents are deprived of their children. There is a difference between the right of the child and the right of the child. The representative, Woldseth, said that she would have a clarification of the criteria for return to care. This is not about preventing return. It's about children's right to grow up in a safe everyday life. We are talking here about the silent children, who are entitled to help from society when the biological parents are unable to provide them with the care of all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 938]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e604	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e613	Following a decision today, it will be a municipal responsibility to ensure that persons exposed to violence in close relations have an offer of protection, assistance and follow-up. The road to this legislation has a history similar to that of other welfare services, which are currently part of the welfare state, where a need for unmet help has been resolved through voluntary efforts, and that responsibility is then taken over by the community. It was women's solidarity that developed in the wake of feminism in the 1970s, opening the closed rooms of the family and making visible the taboo violence in close relations. With the visualization, the courage from the victims of violence came to seek help. The crisis centres have provided assistance to women and children who have been subjected to violence through voluntary efforts based on idealism and sister solidarity throughout these years. It's an incredible effort that's been made, an effort that has meant enormously to many, many women. When a majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party and the Left, now wants to legislate the responsibilities of the municipalities, it is in order to ensure an offer of crisis centres to all those who are subjected to violence and to underline the responsibilities of the community. The contents of the services to be provided now are largely based on the same offers currently provided by the crisis centres. The entire Committee stresses the importance of maintaining and continuing the competence and commitment developed in the crisis centres. The majority of the Committee, all except the Progress Party and the Left, point out that the legislative proposal requires cooperation between municipalities and that it must become more committed than is the case today. Both a host municipality model and a model of intercommunal companies may be suitable for organising the tasks under the law. The law emphasizes that everyone, i.e. women, men and children who are exposed to violence in close relationships shall be guaranteed an offer of crisis centres. It also means that there is a need to organise groups that are not currently receiving sufficient help. Men exposed to violence are such a group. Municipalities are required to ensure an adapted offer in line with the needs of users, including gender-specific needs. Against this background, the majority support the legislative proposal that housing for women and men should be physically separate. A question has been raised as to whether a person should have a statutory home that provides for the possibility of delimiting the offer of a crisis centre to victims of violence without a legal residence permit. The majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party and the Left, agree with the Ministry and with the majority of the hearing bodies that the law is to be applied to all victims of violence in the kingdom, irrespective of their residence status, and considers that such a regulation could easily conflict with the human rights obligations of Norway. The majority support the proposal that the earmarked grants be replaced by framework funding when the crisis centre offer is legalised as municipal responsibility and assumes that this occurs one year after the law enters into force. Various minorities in the Committee do not wish to legislate on crisis centres and would like to see a different transitional regime. I'm assuming that these minorities themselves will justify their positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e632	The Progress Party believes that Norway cannot do without a crisis centre offer today. Everyday life for some and, unfortunately, too many people are both raw and brutal, and these women, children and men need a safe place to be, until they have been given an overview of what the auxiliaries and the public can do to secure the situation. So to emphasize, we're not against the crisis centres and the crisis centre offer, they've done and do a formidable job, many completely voluntary, so that those who are subjected to mental or physical violence will have a safe place. Fighting violence in close relationships must take place at all levels, because this is a threat to life and health and affects everyone, men, women and children. We also support the Government's action plan against violence in close relations, so our opposition to the law-enforcement of the municipal crisis centre offer has a completely different cause. I also want to add that this government should actually have praise for the formidable effort it has made against violence in close relations. There's a lot of respect for that. So why we're opposed to the crisis centre offer: I want to start by reminding you that the crisis centres that started 30 years ago were of a private and voluntary nature. Without a number of beautiful and engaged women, we had not had an offer for women who were subjected to violence. Then it makes me think that we are going to ‘publish’ this great offer, which has been going well despite the public for so many years. But, as the vote shows, the Progress Party does not want to legislate on the crisis centre offer. The legalisation of the municipal crisis centre offer may result in the closure of the crisis centres operated today. It even states that municipalities have to employ people ‘with relevant competences’. You don't necessarily need more competence in a crisis centre than being a fellow human being. It has lasted until now, and I can't understand that anything more is necessary. To date, crisis centres have provided a low threshold for those who need to escape violence in close relationships. In addition, there has been a very successful response. Crisis centres did not start their activities as municipal enterprises. They were opened by women and children, and no one really asked any questions. It was and is a safe place and a free minute for women and men who have lived under very difficult conditions, with mental and physical terror. It may not be necessary to legislate everything in the belief that the offer will improve for that reason. Even the KS is against such a law, because they believe that this is an unnecessary interference in the autonomy of the municipalities. It is not primarily self-government that concerns me, but legalizing without the ability to assure the citizens that this offer exists in the individual municipality will in some way be nothing but a paper law. A number of crisis centres are currently run by volunteers and receive most of their funding through the state. What happens in a municipality with little resources and a voluntary crisis centre offer? Will this mean that it cannot be financed and that the offer must be phased out? Will the municipality claim that there is not enough competence, and then liquidate? What about protective measures? What if a private crisis centre offer is not well enough secured, will it be liquidated? In the government's eagerness to legislate, will the voluntary offer completely disappear? The third sector is doing a fantastic job in a number of fields, and crisis centres are one of them. Has the government considered the consequences of imposing an offer on municipalities? Or is the lawmaking of the offer simply a way of making all crisis centres public institutions? I'm just asking, because why touch something that's been working for so many years without law enforcement? In 2005, we increased state subsidies to the crisis centres from 50 to 80 p.p., and the municipalities took the rest, making the centres properly funded. We want to ensure that all crisis centres are properly funded, and that is a matter of law, but it is far from the same thing as lawmaking a municipal emergency facility. With this, I will address the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e658	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e661	The right largely agrees with the Government in the grip that is now taken in relation to the crisis centres. For many, provision of crisis centres has been a matter of life or death. After all, the crisis center movement had a long-term birth. A few pioneers responded to very bad odds of creating an offer, despite the fact that a lot of people thought it was unnecessary, that it was to care about things nobody had anything to do with – it was very big counter-conceptions. Fortunately, the lack of knowledge and, at times, direct exaggeration is a time that has passed, although there is still that kind of mechanism in parts of society. But, fortunately, it's on the waving front. Over many years, good experience has been gained in what crisis centres can mean, and not mean, and now is the time to make the offer available to everyone across the country, in line with other important welfare services, and also to men. Right-wing believes it is good to realise that men also need such an offer. For there are very many taboos and prejudices associated with men who have been subjected to assault or violence, not least if any of the acts of violence are committed by a woman. You're not really a man if you're subjected to violence by a woman, there's a lot of people who get to write in various blogs, etc. As legislator, we have an obligation to send a clear signal to anyone who is exposed to this, no matter what sex they may have. So there's a point that you shouldn't be shutting down as an employee at the crisis centers because of your sex. Everything has to be done on the premises of the users. But I think it's worth listening to what you've experienced in several of the country's incest centers. We have asked direct questions to both employees and users if there was no big problem that there were both men and women there, and then they start laughing. Because it would have been really crazy ten years ago, but now no one is criticizing it anymore, simply because they find that they have a lot to give each other, and that it is very unproblematic to do this on the premises of the users. If you want a man to talk to, you get it, you don't want it, you don't want it. It's done very well in practice, and both men and women, whether they're users or employees, are very happy that you're actually also in such a center that there are two genders in this world, which are also quite well pedagogical. So I think we should learn from some of the incest centers when it comes to the fear of some people having both men as users and as employees also in a crisis centre. However, we ask questions by not using gender-neutral terms in the propositions, in the comments on the various paragraphs, but highlighting the crisis centres as an offer to women. – Just so that the government remembers that it is not only the legal text but also the preparatory work, which is to be the future legal source, and that a uniform concept is used. What we do not agree with, however, is that one chooses to transfer the task and funding to the municipalities before the necessary conversion in line with new legislation has been completed. The financial instrument we have today is predictable and should be able to function well in a transformation phase. Then the state gets to increase the amount of funding so that the conversion leads to the fulfilment of the law's requirements. Only once the offer has been developed in line with the law should responsibility for the financing be transferred to the municipalities. A good example of what can happen if you don't take any time is Follo Crisis Center. This centre has already made the quality improvements required by the legislative proposal, but they are afraid of having a cut in the State transfer of 2.8 million. NOK, of a total budget of today’s 10 million. kr. There's something to remember. There are also several crisis centres that indicate that estimates are so low that one risks having to put away some of the quality improvements they have made before the law comes into force. We therefore do not support the proposal that the earmarked grant should be replaced by framework funding, while at the same time legislating should enter into force. Although on a principle we are for locally adapted solutions and local self-government, the signals at the hearing have been so clear. We don't think this has been the Government's intention, but we're afraid that it might be the consequences of today's decision. Finally, I would like to make a small comment to the Progress Party in connection with this: I fully agree that it is important to be a fellow human being. If you're doing a good job as a professional, it's a prerequisite that you're also an all right person. But I don't think it's gonna last. If you, for example, will work with the deaf, or with women with a completely different ethnic background, with a special problem that some people have, I think you can be as amazing as you want, but it doesn't help if you don't know what the problem is about. Although this is a low-threshold offer, my experience from the crisis centre movement, after sitting on the board of one of the federations, is that there is a lack of e.g. leadership has made you have so many conflicts in some places that I almost don't understand how to get time to help the users. So it's not to reduce voluntary work that you also focus on quality and knowledge of management training, and that you get more formal competence into the crisis centres. It's not a reduction for voluntary work, but I don't think we can today, with the challenges we have, just bet on so-called volunteers. They are also part-time employees and are paid. They don't work there completely on a voluntary basis. So that's actually a misleading concept of how it's used.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e682	First Document No The 8-year proposal from SV I was involved in promoting at Stortinget almost eight years ago was on the law enforcement of the crisis centre offer. It is therefore very good to be able to stand here today and be involved in dealing with the law enforcement of a municipal crisis centre offer. We've had a development of domestic violence that worries, and when the crisis centers were established, we thought that if we just focused on the problem of violence, it would be gone. It hasn't worked out that way. Unfortunately, crisis centres are more necessary than ever. There is a good and important work being done on our crisis centres around the country. It has proved to be very many times, as many have mentioned before in the debate, that when women take voluntary action, it is absolutely necessary. Women in this country have launched several measures that have been taken over by the public because it has been necessary. Another good example is health centres. Those currently living in crisis centres are often in a complex and complex situation. More competence and organised centres are required which are more adapted to children, persons with reduced mobility, etc. It is essential that crisis centres are provided with a predictable framework for their operations in the future, so that the objective of helping victims, as well as helping to reduce the extent of violence, abuse and abuse, is maintained in the future. Some municipalities do not have a crisis centre offer, and they have argued that there is no violence in their municipality. That's why a law-abiding person is necessary. There must be an offer in all municipalities, now also to men. Violence in close relationships affects both women, men and children. 2 pst. of men and 8 pst. of women between 20 and 54 years of age who are subjected to serious violence by their partner. It is a 2007 survey that shows that boys and girls growing up are about as much exposed to violence from their parents. Children as often experience gross physical injuries in the growth of their mothers as of their fathers. Legislation will make it clear that the public has a responsibility to ensure that persons who are exposed to violence in close relationships are protected, assisted and followed up. The legislative proposal requires cooperation between municipalities, and it is emphasised that cooperation is being developed and becomes more binding than it currently exists, and the financial agreements between municipalities must take account of the fact that the offer is to be a free, low-threshold offer, as it is today. Women from ethnic minorities are a large user group of existing crisis centres and there is a need for specific arrangements for the assistance provided to this group. SV supports the proposal that the law requires municipalities to provide the necessary interpretation services in connection with the offer. The law shall apply to all victims of violence residing in the State, irrespective of their residence status. SV is concerned about the signals received during the consultations that the calculations made in connection with the transfer to the framework grant are too low. It is very important that we now have a future crisis centre offer that is strengthened and not weakened, both in terms of upgrading centres and quality and content. There is a need for a transitional regime. I believe that developments must be closely monitored so that we do not have a weakened offer, and the transition must take place in close cooperation with the existing crisis centres and with the necessary flexibility such reorganisations require. I would like to stress from the SV that the economic consequences of a municipal responsibility for a crisis centre offer, with the leaders included in the bill, are uncertain. I would also like to stress what we say in the vote, that the expenditure increases resulting from the quality improvements resulting from the legislative proposal should be covered. It is very important that the Ministry recovers the additional costs of the legislative proposal in the context of the annual budget proposals. The lawfulness of the offer must be a strengthening of the offer to children, women and men who are subjected to violence, not a weakening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e703	Violence in close relationships is a serious social problem that particularly affects women and children, but also men. We know that family violence is a growing problem that requires increased effort. The Christian People's Party believes that society has a responsibility to prevent and expose domestic violence, along with the family. Crisis centres have long had a central place in the fight against violence in close relations, and the Christian People's Party today is voting for the law to make it clear that the public has a responsibility to ensure that people who are exposed to violence in close relations are protected, helped and followed up. We are voting for the crisis centre offer to be legislated in order to ensure crisis centre offers to everyone, i.e. to women, men and children who are exposed to violence in close relationships. We are voting for the law to ensure a crisis centre offer in all the municipalities of the country and to help improve the quality of the offer. However, with regard to the funding model, the Christian People's Party does not agree with the majority. The Christian People's Party is the principle of local self-government, and we want the municipalities themselves to be able to dispose of municipal funds for the benefit of the municipality's citizens. We are therefore initially in favour of transferring as much of the State's funding to municipalities as possible through the framework grant. But in this case, we fear that a decision on framework transfer, especially in a transitional phase, will lead to a significant reduction in existing offers. This will happen because an expansion must come in municipalities that do not already have a crisis centre offer. If the allocation is not radically increased, all existing crisis centres will have to downgrade their activities in order for all municipalities that have not established the offer to establish this. Many existing crisis centres fear that if the appropriations are not increased radically, they will have to build up their activities. In addition, we know that the crisis centre offer needs significant changes in the near future to meet the requirements of the law. New groups shall be offered, including men, more and more women and men with a different ethnic and cultural background, and children. The need for new and improved skills is high, and the training of employees and volunteers in crisis centres is required. Cooperation with other support agencies should also be developed and will require a great deal of organisation and resources. The offer must remain a low-threshold free offer, but the quality should remain good. It should be a free offer with a high level of professional competence. There's no contradiction in that. The requirements for the new crisis centres are many, and they are costly. The Christian People's Party believes that the offer must be developed to the standard that the law now requires. We need to know more about the costs of the upcoming crisis centre offer. So we can look at the funding model and change it. Thus, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal that the earmarked grants be replaced by framework funding while the law enters into force. When so many municipalities and crisis centres say that the resources that follow the law are too scarce, we believe it must be taken seriously. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is to ensure stable full funding of crisis centres. The Bondevik II Government increased the State grant to the crisis centres from 50 p.m. in the 2005 budget. until 80 p.m., so that the funding of the crisis centres was 100 p.m. public. We believe that this financial instrument should continue for a while and that the Storting should return to a new financing mechanism and framework funding at a later stage. That is our reason for making proposals together with the other opposition parties that the Government should come back to the Stortinge with proposals for a comprehensive financing plan for crisis centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e722	Historically, it is in Norwegian society that the vast majority of welfare and care services we have – yes, everyone I can get to – have started with a voluntary initiative, from hospitals to kindergartens, etc. I have the feeling that I've started a lot of posts with that particular sentence, but it's very relevant here. As many speakers before me have said, the crisis centre offer has just become an engagement between sisters, an offer of what is needed in that particular area. When we in the Left today do not vote for the proposal that the Government has put forward, the reason is a little bit of the ideology behind the crisis centre, but it is also about what we think is the best effect of the job being done. In fact, the most important job that crisis centres have done has not been in the crisis centres themselves. As important as the crisis centres themselves, the information work carried out by crisis centres has been. Yes, the round of beggars they have had around the municipalities means that every local government has had to deal with this issue at regular intervals. I remember from my time in Young Left in the Nord-Trøndelag a working party rapporteur from Meråker who was old-fashioned. He refused that there were men in Meråker who could beat their bitches, so this had to be an entry he could save on. So he sat down on the stairs at the crisis center and waited to see if there were any ringers from Meråker who met up there. Of course, it created a huge debate – and that debate had a very good effect on Nord-Trøndelag. In fact, the debates created by the crisis centres due to the funding model that has emerged over time have been very important information work, attitudes and changes in attitudes. That's one of the reasons why we want this symbiosis between state and municipality to continue. It's not supposed to be a municipal order, but the municipalities are going to discuss themselves until this is actually a very important part. When we were in government, and our Minister of Justice in 1999 presented the first action plan against violence in close relations, it was important to increase funding for crisis centres from 50 p.m. to 80 pst. We in the Left believe that there would have been a much better measure to ensure quality and operation if we could increase the percentage that the State can stand for. It would have been a more important move than to oblige the municipalities to run this activity. We are very afraid of the bureaucracy that it can lead to. We are very afraid that women and men may feel that they cannot get there and be anonymous, we are afraid of treatment guarantees and warning obligations and supervision that red tape this measure. I agree with a lot of what André Oktay Dahl said, that it is important to get professionalism into the offer. But believing that municipal ownership automatically leads to professionalism, I can't understand. To believe that municipal ownership never leads to conflict or bad leadership is at least quite distant. In relation to Oktay Dahl's arguments, I have to say that gaining professionalism is about funding. Bringing down the level of conflict is about good leadership. But good leadership does not require municipal ownership. Good leadership, municipal ownership is simply not a guarantee of. If you move in institutions around the municipalities, you can see that there are also municipal institutions with a high level of conflict. From this point of view, we believe in the Left that we could have ensured the crisis centres much better by being able to take on the burden of increased government funding instead of imposing this operation on the municipalities. In fact, the guarantees that the Government is now issuing in all areas are not what ensures the operation, ensures professionalism, ensures good development in the field best. You have to admit that to get better security, you need more money. If one is to get a good local anchoring, it is not necessarily done by municipal ownership, but by a large voluntary commitment and municipalities that always take the debate that this is actually an important area for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e737	It is true that many of the welfare services we have in the Norwegian community have been started through voluntary work — health centres have been set up by sanitary associations, and home care teams have started many kindergartens. But none of us want us back to the time when the beggarund was at the heart of the engagement. That is precisely why it is so right to legislate the crisis centre movement – not because we want municipal ownership, but because we want it to be a municipal responsibility to give women and men who need it real protection. One of the comments that the representative Skei Grande made in the discussion, and I must say that I reacted relatively strongly to, was that now one should talk about the warning obligation in the crisis centres. So it's about how children are received at crisis centres. Half of the users aren't women, they're children. And the children who are in a crisis centre have the right to protection even if Mother is in a crisis centre. So we're going to get more professional crisis centers and have professionals to deal with these kids, I think it's a perfectly right development. Through this legalization, we are not just going to use some of the resources we use today in crisis centres, but we are actually going to increase them strongly. We're adding that there's going to be an increase in state aid of 40 pst. This means that society should take increased responsibilities. I believe that responsibility for this group cannot be left to idealism. We depend on idealism to create a big discussion about child rearing and about public health, but it's not beggars that make us overcome this evil that violence against women and men is. There has also been some discussion about whether we should have crisis centres for men, and I stress that we do not want these to be the same housing facilities. It may be difficult for a crisis centre in Oslo or Bergen when a man calls at the door – perhaps late in the evening – to let him in at all times of the day. But I would like to stress that it is a public responsibility to give men who need protection, the same degree of care and protection as Norwegian women get. So I think there was a misunderstanding in Bjørg Tørresdal's posts, because we're adding up to a long transition period in this bill. The law enters into force on 1 January 2010, but the earmarked grant will be retained for another year, so we have plenty of time for a transitional arrangement in connection with this law. The fact that we now have statutory crisis centres shows that we are expanding the welfare state in an important area. The welfare state in the 1970s is referred to as the time when we were good at caring for each other, but what the women's movement has raised from new discussions in this area shows that there are many holes, and that there are parts of the welfare offer that have not been good enough. That's why I'm very proud that this government is proposing to legislate the crisis centers. We can't do this just through idealism.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e754	Consider all the costly arrangements required by the law, but which have not been clarified – they must necessarily be made later in the form of skills requirements, etc. – what is the reason why the Government is not willing to consider a longer transitional period before this should be included as part of the framework funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e759	There is just a transitional arrangement in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e764	I said “longer transition period”.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e769	Yes, but we believe that this is a long transitional arrangement. We also say that this will cost more money. It's rare for us politicians to say that we want to raise a stake by 40 pst, but that's what's in this bill. It is a major effort that underpins this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e774	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that it makes sense to legislate the offer. We also agree with what has been said by the Government in terms of competence. And according to the debate today, it is quite clear that we are not just going to get a law-enforcement, but we are also going to get a better crisis-centre offer. So our only concern today, when we're going to adopt this law, is that maybe you don't fully understand what this will cost. That's why the Christian People's Party will have a little longer time than a year, because it takes a year to get the development going – after you have legalized, you have to expand the offer and get a better quality. Our concern is that there is too little time to get the right numbers. So why not listen to – at least assess – good advice in the debate about having a slightly longer transition period before it is transferred to the framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e779	I believe that this increase by legislating a crisis centre offer has transferred significantly larger and more recent tasks that result in much greater workload on the municipalities. We believe that there is a long transitional arrangement; it is a year and a half until the earmarked grant will disappear. We believe that this is a long transitional arrangement. In addition, when we are going to spend extra money on this, we believe that this is justifiable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e784	It is clear that the Council of State misunderstood me in relation to the warning obligation. In the case of child protection alerts and child protection alerts, there is also today. So the Council of State doesn't mean there's going to be any change in that particular area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e789	In this area, we want a change of practice. Some of the quality improvements we want to contribute to by means of this legislative proposal are precisely about ensuring child-care skills. This means that children should receive a better offer when living in a crisis centre and that those working there should be better informed about the child protection obligation. So all in all, I believe that the interests of children are far better protected by this law than by what is available at crisis centres today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e794	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e799	I'll be brief. It was a challenge from the representative Skei Grande that I had to comment on. It is not that I have assumed that municipal ownership causes all conflicts to go away. Municipal ownership is not a prerequisite for our proposal. What I meant, and said, is that we need a greater degree of professionalism and competence at the crisis centres. It is strange that the entire crisis centre movement wishes to welcome this law. The critical issue of the crisis centre movement is how it happens that there is not enough transitional arrangements in relation to quality assurance and financing of the offers. I haven't met a single person in the crisis centre movement so far who thinks it's a stupid idea that you actually legalize and get more clearly placed the responsibility for the future of crisis centres. The problem today is that a lot of crisis centres feel like they're standing between bark and wood. They have too many to deal with. The fact that it is not regulated is a problem for them. Then I guess I think that the representative Skei Grande when it comes to that particular question could listen a little bit more to those who are actually doing this. What I agree with is that the law itself – too quickly – may contribute to the opposite. That is why the whole opposition is concerned that we need to have more transitional arrangements, so that we have time to develop the quality that the bill requires. Lawmaking is a two-edged sword – I agree. But I think maybe you should listen to the movement we all say we support, when that's the effect of the law we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e813	First, to that representative, Oktay Dahl, said that there is an overall crisis centre movement. I understand that the representative Dahl is on the board of the Crisis Center Federation, but it's probably a slightly more complex picture than what was expressed here, because a lot of those who have contacted me have been very critical of what's going on. I believe that today the warning routines are more solar, and the responsibility for children is quite clear. If people don't do what they're supposed to do, it's because they haven't been trained well enough. Local responsibility does not necessarily mean that you receive good enough training – it does not ensure municipal training. What I was talking about – alert duty – is that we are today, for example. have a public prosecutor in respect of violence against women, including domestic violence. If the public prosecutor would also be able to intervene in the case of crisis centres, I am excited about the consequences of this – when such a care facility is then suffocated along with a public care facility that becomes completely different. Sickness if very many welfare services in society have been taken over by the public does not mean that everything should be taken over by the public. I think the speed shift is doing a great job. I think 4H is doing an amazing job. Many of them have employees, many of them are professional. Some of them have conflicts in their own organisation, but I don't think it's getting better by the municipality taking over them. There's something about the root of volunteering and voluntary engagement actually having added value in society. We lose that added value when we municipalise all welfare services. This welfare offer has been very good on the outside, as an addition to what the public has to offer. I'm afraid we're losing that supplement -- that this is a place where you come from among sisters or brothers, and that it's something other than entering a municipal action plan. I'm afraid we're losing a lot of the good that it's done, that we've had the sister and brotherly community that's been made by these measures. I'd like to have financed them better. I'd like to make sure that the quality gets better, with more professionals. But to believe that the municipalities ensure everything, I do not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e820	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 941]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e837	I would like to present the opinion of the Financial Committee on the Accounting Act. Let me first of all thank you for a good cooperation in the committee. This is a law that should not initially carry out the greatest political violations, but during the committee's work on the law, some uncertainties were discovered in the legislative work that was presented to us. And just through good cooperation between opposition and position, we've been cleared up in these uncertainties. Let me also say that this is thanks to a quick response from the Ministry of Finance. So it's been very good. I therefore believe that we are presenting a position that should satisfy most parties. The legislative proposal itself takes into account the inclusion of the audit directive in line with our EEA obligations. The whole purpose of the Directive is to increase confidence in the financial reporting of audit entities. In view of the alarming economic situation that has marked the last year, the statutory audit authority is also now an important piece in the work on sensible regulation and a sensible piece of legislation. In the context of the work on the law, there has been some unfollowed input from actors, and some will experience that not all recordings have been taken into account. But let me make it clear that the law, as it exists now, should provide a good framework, and it contributes to a better framework than before, which I think the actors will be pleased with. After all, there have been few objections to the draft law. It is also such that several of the provisions of the Directive provide for detailed rules to be laid down by the European Commission. The Ministry’s proposal is therefore provided that, at a later stage, additional implementing measures may be needed to fulfil Norway’s international obligations. Therefore, regulatory homes have been proposed in relation to the provisions dealing with issues where the Directive opens up the possibility for the European Commission to lay down detailed rules. That means that the government, in a not too distant future, will probably have to update the law. There is also an opportunity to see that the law works as intended, and this may take into account any further input that has come from the actors. There are two specific aspects of the law I want to comment on. One relationship concerns public-interest entities, including audit committee requirements. In the setting, the Right and Left have their own comment on this, a comment that the rest of the Committee has chosen not to join. The Committee has chosen to make additional comments related to legal requirements for audit committees. It is proposed to introduce the possibility of a derogation in the first instance, but the Committee considers that the Government should return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of the need to maintain the derogations after the new rules have been put into effect for a period of time. The second thing I want to comment on is that the law's requirement for the rotation of auditors in public-interest entities also applies to significant subsidiaries, as, during the hearing and the work of the committee, there have been views on this which can be understood as meaning that the rotation requirement will in practice apply to all subsidiaries. The Committee, in its opinion, has determined the following – I refer from the vote: ‘The Committee will clarify that the starting point is that the definition of significant subsidiaries will not include subsidiaries to be excluded from consolidation, as set out below. Paragraphs 3 to 8 of the Accounting Act and that, in addition to this, it is necessary to consider in concrete terms whether other subsidiaries have a sufficient importance for consolidated financial statements in order for rotation to be carried out.» With these comments, I recommend that Odelstinget join the unanimous position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e859	There's not much to add. I was just going to draw the attention of the Council of State to a minority comment from the Right and the Left. I have no illusions that minority comments have the greatest attention in the ministry, but we have said something about how to implement the audit committee provisions and the choice of governance in the companies. There are ordinary general meetings of limited liability companies in the spring, and we note that one should consider whether the listed companies can ‘use the ordinary general meetings in the spring of 2010 to select directors that meet the criteria of the general share law’, i.e. to be qualified to act as an audit committee. Whether the council wants to respond to it or not, she gets to choose for herself, but now I have at least spent some extra time drawing her attention to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e864	It's possible we're in the department of special interest, but that's the case when you have such a wide range of work that the finance committee has. I'm a little bit uncertain about how the comment from the Right and the Left is to understand. The Government’s proposal is that if the detailed compositional requirements of the Board of Directors are met, the Board of Directors is considered to be an audit committee within the meaning of the Audit Directive. A derogation from the requirement to set up a specific sample is therefore provided for in order to meet the audit selection requirement. However, the proposal does not open the way for the company to establish that the Board of Directors does not have to meet the requirements of audit committees, including: in the case of composition and the tasks to be performed. The fact that the Governing Board, if it deems it desirable, is able to set up an audit committee seems a little strange, because if the general meeting does not establish the statute of the Board of Directors to act as an audit committee, the Governing Board itself is obliged to set up a specific selection. However, if it is statutory for the entire Governing Board to act as audit committee, the Governing Board is not intended to be able to subsequently decide that any members of the Governing Board should be exempted from dealing with the matters that otherwise fall within the audit committee. This is the explanation that there is some disagreement between a majority and a minority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e875	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e892	I will continue the good trend and thank the opposition for the good cooperation we have had in this matter. I do not have the habit of thanking the opposition, but I will promise to do so in every case where we have unanimity – until I leave on Friday. Today we are dealing with a proposition with proposals for legislative changes in two different areas. Firstly, it is proposed to amend the rules on ownership control in financial institutions. Secondly, it is proposed to amend the legal rules on ownership restrictions and ownership control in investment infrastructure undertakings. While the former has its background to Norway’s obligation to implement new EEA rules in Norwegian law, the latter will mainly have its background in a real national need. The Directive introduces amended procedural rules and criteria for the prudential assessment of acquisitions and increases of holdings in the financial sector. The implementation of the Directive and the corresponding EEA rules will, in the first instance, provide greater clarity and predictability for market players wishing to buy up in financial sector companies, as their application needs to be decided more than under the applicable rules within specific time limits, and assessments must be made in accordance with specific criteria. The possibility of discretionary exercise by authorities is restricted accordingly, but does not preclude the use of judgement. Although the assessment of suitability is to be made on the basis of an exhaustive list of criteria, the criteria themselves open up to the exercise of judgement. In the case of regulated markets and securities registers, the proposal involves the acquisition of holdings representing at least 10 pst. the share capital or voting rights of such undertakings must be notified to the credit supervision. The supervision shall carry out an appropriate assessment. In exceptional cases, the Ministry may grant a derogation if its holding exceeds 20 pst. of the share capital of the stock exchange or securities registers. Furthermore, the Ministry shall examine applications under the exception provided for in the third paragraph of Section 35 of the Stock Exchange Act and the third paragraph of Section 5-3 of the Securities Register Act, including an assessment of the suitability and verification of the underlying ownership and activities. For the infrastructure sector, the impact appears to be limited as the legislative proposal does not impose these substantially modified framework conditions. Nor for the owners will the proposal have immediate consequences for ownership. The proposal is in line with current exemption practices for stock exchanges and securities registers. In this respect, the proposed amendment will not lead to a requirement to change existing ownership until the end of the derogation period. In addition, owners with a holding of less than 20 pst. in stock exchanges or securities registers may continue their ownership on a permanent basis in accordance with the proposal of the Securities Register Act. Moreover, the exemption provided for in the same legal provisions allows specific groups and undertakings to purchase more than 20 pst on application. in stock exchange and securities registers, subject to approval by the Ministry. All owners of clearing houses in Norway are exempted from the rules on ownership control. The proposal no longer requires an exemption from the current ownership of clearing houses in order to be able to continue. The minority of the Committee, the Party of Advances, the Right and the Left, points out that the majority of the working party and a majority of the hearing bodies proposed an embellishment of the rules on ownership in order to raise the ownership gap from 10 p.m. until 20 pst. They point to the lifting of the roof because ESA would not approve the current limits of 10 pst, and they are therefore uncertain about a ceiling of 20 pst. is in particular better vis-à-vis ESA than the previous restriction. They support, in spite of this proposition, the proposal to limit it. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e915	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e932	In order to reply to the previous rapporteur: it seems that this morning's debate on the quality of life may have spread within the Committee, so that we also allow this to have a little influence on the relationship between the various parties in the Committee. Nothing is better than that. Also in this case, Ot.prp. No 82 for 2008-2009, it is a relatively overall committee. This proposition is a follow-up to the work of the Supplementary Tax Committee, presented in its setting in 2003. While this sample was reduced for various reasons, it was intended to review the system of administrative penalties in the event of tax disclosure breaches and to investigate the relationship between additional taxes and penalties in the light of developments in the practice of the European Convention on Human Rights. It was probably the most important thing. In the course of the process, case-law and clarifications have been found on some of the issues that were unclear with regard to the EMK following the submission of the selection of the sample. There has therefore been no significant part of the proposal nor of the Committee's decision. The selection took the view that additional taxes at both ordinary and increased rates would be suspended for subsequent criminal prosecution. The Supreme Court later concluded that ordinary additional taxes do not stop subsequent criminal proceedings for the same reasons. Until recently, this has been a practice. Two decisions in the EMC later turn in the opposite direction. The Ministry has therefore stated in its proposal that the Equation Authorities must choose between imposing additional taxes or declaring tax evasion, and that both ordinary additional taxes and increased additional taxes should be closed for subsequent criminal prosecution by the same person. There is no discussion about this in the configuration. There is a great deal of consensus on the proposal from the Ministry. This means that the Committee agrees on a two-track sanctioning system with an objective additional tax at the bottom and a reinforced administrative penalty for cases where taxpayers have been subjectively blamed in matters of a more serious nature. It is agreed that the rules of the administrative sanctioning system should be simple to practice for the tax rate and that they should be predictable for taxpayers. In addition, such rules must be perceived as fair. Tax authorities must, as far as possible, be experienced as a ‘Community co-player’, not primarily as a square counterpart. If a criminal system is to have legitimacy, it must be perceived as fair, it must be perceived as reasonable, and it must be perceived as predictable. The Committee is somewhat divided as regards the nuance between the objective rules for imposing additional taxes under Section 10-2 and the rules on the excuses and subjective conditions for exempting additional taxes under Section 10-3. The opposition believes that there should be a more direct link between the assessment of the apologies of the taxpayers and the assessment according to the objective general rule, and recommends that such a link be made directly in the legal text, where, in the general rule of Section 10-2, it is linked and refers to the terms and conditions listed later in Section 10-3, where one can then exempt from these reasons, when necessary and appropriate. By making this connection, the opposition believes that one is even a little more confident that this is being done. As regards the amount of the additional tax, both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left see it in the same way as the Supplementary Tax Committee, namely that 30 pst. additional taxes could result in very high amounts, for example: for non-declaration, where the additional tax is calculated by the total tax, which may then be discretionary. There are a number of cases in which taxpayers who, for various reasons, find themselves in a temporary difficult situation do not get out of it again because the first phase of contact — or lack of contact, perhaps preferably the last — with the equality authorities leads to fixed problems and subsequent financial pressures. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, as the Supplementary Tax Committee, will not have an ordinary and reduced rate, but would like to reduce the general additional tax rate. The Committee therefore agrees that there should be one additional tax rate. I do not think that reducing this rate would undermine respect for the tax system. I think it's more than enough to create a situation of seriousness for taxpayers and to create an understanding of the system without the fact that it's completely destructive economic in the first round. Perhaps more people can have a constructive dialogue with the tax authorities at such an entry point when they have failed. Therefore, these three parties propose that the rate of the ordinary additional tax be set at 20 pst. instead of 30 pst. In addition, the proposal for an amendment to the additional tax legislation in the event of a tax loss is promoted, where the new rules require payment of the additional tax in the event of a failure to provide information in the event of a carry-over of the deficit in the same year of income. As it is now, this comes to payment only in the year when the income is positive again, and you are in the tax position. It appears that additional taxes are unlikely to be effective in the year in which you do not have income, with subsequent poor liquidity, and in fact you do not know whether you will ever be able to make use of the carryable deficit. So we're going to go against that rule change. With regard to the proposals for increased additional taxes, the Committee agrees on both the conditions, the premiums and the amount of the additional tax. I address the proposals that the Right supports in this matter together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e964	The representative of the Svein Fleet has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e967	Only a few short comments about the additional tax theme: The background is that additional taxes are to be an extra tax for those who deliberately avoid the tax, and not the many more who, for different personal reasons, are not given their maritime declaration – or are supplied in the manner to be done. We are pleased by the majority with what is in the vote, where the ministry proposes that a clearer distinction be made between the ordinary additional tax of 30 pst. and increased additional tax of up to a further 30 pst. In order to ensure that taxpayers fulfil their obligation to provide information to the equality authorities, the Ministry proposes that additional taxes should be imposed in accordance with almost objective criteria. The basic conditions for the imposition of additional taxes shall continue to be that the taxable person has supplied incorrect or incomplete information or has failed at all to supply a maritime declaration or an industrial task. The additional tax shall continue to be calculated by the tax that is or could have been deducted and the additional tax rate shall be 30 p.p., as at present. As a general rule, those who have received 15 pst today will. additional taxes, do not receive additional taxes on the basis of the proposal. The Ministry therefore proposes not to continue the provision on reduced rates. So the majority agree – to the extent that the minority – that we now have one additional tax rate, with a more extensive use for excuses. Thus, a framework that deliberately avoids taxes, and the many that are not affected by the additional tax because of different mitigating factors in their situation in life. And it's the many governments here have been concerned about not to be taken, but that one concentrates resources where it's important to concentrate them – at all: a red tape and a simplification in the government's best spirit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e980	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 954]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e997	It's a pleasure to lead this consensus further into the next case. In the option of Ot.prp. No 76 on amendments to the VAT Act, it is also a highly agreed committee. This is essentially a technical revision of a very complicated law, and there are a couple of material changes here that I would like to mention. One concerns turnover and deliveries to the continental shelf, which is now proposed to be exempt from the levy, such as in the case of regular exports to the rest of the world, which in turn means that imports from the socket are subject to charging. This has called for some comments from the industry, of course, because there are very large amounts, large values, going back and forth between the Norwegian continental shelf and the mainland. But I think it is good – not refuted, but documented in the case that this does not have a particularly significant impact on the petroleum industry that has very often, for example. a customs warehouse and other methods to ensure that this does not become a problem in practice. The second is the restriction on access to reliefs under Section 70 for individual cases under the VAT Act. There has been a safety valve that may exempt from charging under special conditions. It is not removed, but in the past the decisions taken pursuant to this paragraph have become subject to the validity of the regulation. Restrictions are now proposed to be valid as a single decision. I don't have any problems seeing that it's a more practical arrangement, and the department itself says that over a long time, as this has been, it's not easy to keep track of which exemptions are available. The only thing I have written a little comment on is the abolition of the Ministry's right of conversion in relation to the complaint subject of VAT. I think it's an important thing. On the other hand, the Ministry wishes to continue to have a right of appeal. One might say that there's going to be a little bit of a special situation, to be able to go to trial against the subject of the complaint. But I see that that possibility must be in such an important law, where, in principle, significant values can be found. I think it is important that the subject of the complaint be able to be a counterparty to any lawsuit. I also think it is important – and we have written this in our note – that they are involved, i.e. individual companies, also being able to be involved in the matters that are being raised. So that's what I'm thinking, for example. on financial assistance, support, or at least putting it to the test in a satisfactory and proper manner. With this I of course recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1012	Just a few very brief comments from the Labour Party and from me. I just want to open up by saying that I agree with the particular comment that the opposition has made on the matter. The touching embrace of each other here continues to go on to the full. I do not want to call it an incurrence that the position was not included in the remark, but I believe it is well on the way already taken care of by the Government – both that the charging entity should be able to respect its rights without excessive costs, and that the complaint subject is enabled to handle these possible, extremely few lawsuits we are talking about. These include: so that the Ministry of Proposition, on page 42, has clarified that access to justice must not affect the possibility of being called upon to hold possession of competent and independent persons and that the name must have sufficient resources to cover any costs involved. I think it's going to be taken very good care of. It may be a bit strange to mention that it is a milestone when we get a new technical review of the VAT promise in Norway. But the old law goes back to June 19, 1969, and now it's replaced by a time-real law. It is a small milestone, and the VAT system is – whether you like it or not – the very support of the welfare community in Norway. There's something to fence about, even in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1021	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 956]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1038	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1045	Ot. pp. No 95 for 2008-2009 is the last tax matter of importance we deal with during this parliamentary term. It contains the legislative changes resulting from the revised budget. In this adjusted draft budget, which is fully discussed on Friday, there are very few system changes. In fiscal and fiscal policy, it is the financial crisis and action against the person who has had and must have the main focus. The Norwegian tax system is mainly good and robust, also in such strong economic changes that we have witnessed recently. Not least because of what we call automatic stabilizers. These contribute to the dampening of cyclical fluctuations without the decision of the Storting to change the country’s income or expenditure. For example, government includes large tax revenues in a high economic cycle as a result of a high level of activity. This helps to mitigate domestic demand because the growth in private sector revenue is lower than if tax revenue had been unaffected by the high economic cycle. Conversely, a recession, as we are now, will reduce tax revenues, even if tax rates are kept unchanged. This reduces the loss of income for the private sector and in isolation contributes to stimulating domestic demand. There is broad agreement on the few proposals put forward by the Government. Most tax changes in the revised budget are not mentioned in this proposition, as there is no need for legislative changes. The exemption includes, inter alia: the shipping tax scheme. It is amended to allow companies with remaining tax credits from the previous scheme to provide collateral for companies outside the scheme. This is a follow-up to previous decisions in Stortinget. In addition, the Tax Act is amended to exempt the Export Committee for Fish from taxation. The opposition has its own, recognizable proposals which the government parties will not support. I leave to the opposition itself to account for its positions. On behalf of the Financial Committee, I recommend that Stortinget follow the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1058	I suppose the rapporteur admitted that there were few proposals here. This is, of course, stage one of Odelstinget and Stortinget's review. The big debate will take place on Friday when you see things in context. In this setting, extracts from several of the opposition parties are based on what you want. The proposals that the Government has made are largely technical, and there is little policy. I feel that in many ways it has become a bit typical of the revised state budget we are going to finalise in Stortinget on Friday – that the government, despite the fact that we are in the situation we are in, does not come up with any specific new proposals aimed at the financial crisis and the situation we are in, among other things. see the Norwegian business community. Therefore, it has been important for the Progress Party, including with regard to this tax proposition, to make concrete proposals that can do something in relation to the financial crisis situation and remedy the business situation. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals and several of these proposals are the subject of the opposition. Among other things, we have proposals for tax FUNN, and for a better tax FUNN scheme, demanded by business. We have made proposals to continue to improve part of the rules on depreciation, which will also be dear to business. I note that the majority will not support any of these proposals. The Progress Party has also made extensive proposals related to facilitating the taxation of employees and pensioners, precisely for, in the situation we are in, actively using fiscal policies to improve purchasing power for people and thus maintain purchasing power, which will benefit the service sector. But I notice that the government does not want to go in for any of these, and will now rather wait and see what is happening, and see how the impact is of the measures that have already been taken and about which the Storting has been put together. However, I note that the Government does not use any particular aspect of the revision to take action, despite the fact that this is the last matter to be dealt with in this large-scale session on Friday. And then, finally, I want to go into something I almost want to call a little curiosity, which lies in the proposition from the Government side, and to which a total opposition has had a comment – otherwise, you generally agree on all the changes that the Government is making. What I call a curiosity is a deduction of gifts of money to non-governmental organisations, where you now want to do a sharpening. I restated for a long time what all day this should be for something, because I believe that the system we have today works well. But then I registered on the Internet for some time back that, among other things. the Minister of Finance and some prominent members of the Ministry of Finance were very dismayed that there were some Israeli friends who provided financial support to organisations that were thought to be contributing to wrong development in the Middle East, and especially in Israel. If that's what you have in mind, I'm kind of critical, but you don't want to say, there's nothing about this. But how to create a system where to open up organisations as mentioned in this proposal, I wonder. I am very concerned about what the opposition has pointed out, and I hope and believe that is also the Government's intention, that if you want to make changes to this scheme, there will be a wide consultation, and you can do that in cooperation with several large organisations that benefit from this scheme, by deducting people from donations of money to non-governmental organisations. I hope that this will not be written in the bill, which the Ministry does in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but that it will be done after a broad consultation with the voluntary organisations, as the opposition has pointed out. With this, I take up the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting, either alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1075	The representative Ulf Leirstein has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1078	The rapporteur has explained in a simple and brief way what was the content of the proposal. It is natural that it was short, for it was, with respect to reporting, little in this proposition and in the later attitude of the government parties that was related to the economic crisis in which the country's businesses now stand. There is reason to be surprised that the Government did not take the opportunity to propose new measures against the ever-increasing and rapid increase in unemployment and the number of industrial bankruptcies. The January package of measures announced that it would come back with assessments in the light of economic developments. I note, based on the fact that nothing is proposed in this proposal on the tax side, that the Government considers that there is no need for action in that area for Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. The only thing that can be said to belong to the crisis with a slight lack of goodwill is the law of what was previously reported in winter on the relaxation of the ban on providing loans and collateral for shipping companies. It was reported at the same time that it finally went back to the accounting technique when it applied to the environmental part of the return of the credit to the shipping companies. We believe that we should go further in this, and propose it in the setting. We believe that there is a need for more measures to create even greater security for the workplaces and businesses. That is why we are proposing a number of measures that we believe could contribute to both this position and the setting of the revised budget that comes next. This concerns the tax FUNN scheme, as we have mentioned, and the reversal of fiscal sharps from last year's budget, i.e. the 2009 budget on the 80 p.m. rule, the value of commercial property and the strengthening of the generational shift in holdings. We are now also proposing to remove the inheritance fee in its entirety. In the case of property taxes, in the case of increased depreciation rates, and not least – but not in this case – a temporary reduction in the employer’s tax. Overall, Right-wing tax cuts amounting to around 8 billion dollars are proposed. Facilitating the competitiveness, profitability and ability of enterprises to survive the crisis are immediate. I think it's mainly small and medium-sized enterprises that would benefit from this. They have in many ways not been taken by the measures that have been taken and that have been very much done on the credit and financing side. That's why we think there's a need to go further with the more pointed measures, an insurance for a lot of companies, an insurance that we should be able to afford. Therefore – back to the introduction – I think it is a pity that the Government did not see anything in this area in this tax proposition. I take up the suggestions that the Right promotes alone or with others. I pay particular attention to the change in the shipping tax rules, where we go against the tenth paragraph of the transitional rules in their entirety, but of course, voting wants to be arranged so that we can vote for the extension to which the Government is putting forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1094	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1097	The revised national budget is a revision of the budget. After all, we made the big changes in our budget, when we implemented the package of measures with all that was there. There were also some tax proposals. We had temporary tax credits that were just fixed to reach that part of the business that has problems with liquidity, as well as everything else we did. The measures we put in place were primarily in the areas that we had announced earlier. Labour market measures were involved, and this was not least the case in places of study, but we will come back to that later. However, the point of the tax changes and the tax proposals that come from the opposition, and especially from the Right, is that there are substantial tax proposals. I have heard that Jan Tore Sanner has been out saying that an easy part of the employer's fee is the means by which the tax bill works best to combat unemployment. To that it's two things to say. One is, when we've wanted to do something of what we've done, it's because it's much better for unemployment than right-wing tax bills. We have spent the money on employing many more people through construction and other measures, rather than using a general light in the employer’s fee, which is, first of all, a less effective measure if you are to use it first, because you think it is necessary to do something about the crisis. In other words, it is a more expensive instrument. Secondly, it works worse in the districts, simply because there is a part that does not pay an employer’s fee at all. In addition, it is not targeted. I would like to spend some time on it, because I think it's a point to say that some of what we see in the Norwegian labour market now is that we are getting a very two-part labour market, where parts of the labour market are completely lacking people or have a shortage of competent people to employ, while in some industries there is a strong increase in unemployment. The point is that the employer’s contribution as an instrument goes to both of these groups and is therefore significantly less targeted than targeting measures against those sectors where there is an increase in unemployment. That is why I would warn against using the instrument that the Right is calling for. That is also why we are voting against, in addition to the fact that we believe that the other parts of the revised national budget are well and properly adapted to the situation in which we are. But as we've said in all the debates where we've been discussing budgets and financial crisis this year: here it's just to be quite humble, because we're in the biggest crisis that some of us sitting here on the Grand Duchy have experienced. Then it's just to look at the situation and come back with targeted tools when we think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1110	President, can I have a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1115	The President believes that there is no line in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1119	I am convinced that it had not been Heikki Holmås against the fact that it had been access to lines, but that is when one has decided to keep this within a time frame. I'm going to be very short, because the main debate about this comes on Friday, and then it is also put into a bigger context. I just want to briefly refer to the proposals for changes that the Christian People's Party has within the scope of the proposition. This applies, of course, to proposals to improve the business situation, as was also the subject of the fleet representative. improve the tax FUNN scheme, increase the depreciation rate for green investments and provide a slightly more transparent opportunity to recover deficits. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also have a proposal relating to the voluntary sector – quite recognizable proposals. I'm taking up these suggestions. In conclusion, like the representative, Leirstein, I would just like to note this announcement that the gift voucher should have some sort of censorship arrangement on it. Well, that's what the government is now warning you, it has to be understood. I would like to say that you have to be very careful about using your political preferences to determine who is worthy of a tax deduction or not – or on the list that allows individuals to have such a tax deduction. I would say that to the extent that the organisations deal with Norwegian law, this should be the framework for whether an organisation is on the list of individuals who give gifts to the organisation concerned, to receive tax deductions or not. I have to say that I look forward to a very good reason if there are other assessments to be used. It is then very close to getting into a situation where it is politically determined which organisations are worthy or not. I don't think we deserve that, whether we're in government A, B, or C.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1128	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1131	Only a few brief comments on the deduction of donations to non-governmental organisations and some of the opposition’s proposals: Depreciation of donations to non-governmental organisations is defined as a maximum per cent. tax payers, currently NOK 12000, and it is defined for organisations with statutes carrying out a social activity. So there's a relationship between duty and right. The Government proposes a tightening up so that no deductions can be made for donations to non-governmental organisations for purposes contrary to international law, possibly contrary to ‘similar ethical standards’. What the previous speaker said about censorship and its like is not relevant in this case. What is said here is much more in line with what is the ethical guidelines for the Oil Fund, which is what the Christian People's Party is hotly behind. I want to say that what this is added up to is that you get a guarantee of a break-up of an important arrangement, so that the deduction scheme can be continued. All of us who are pleased with such an incentive for non-governmental organisations should also be positive in order to ensure that it is implemented at regular intervals, so that it can be achieved. In the case of other proposals from the minority of the Committee, it has been discussed earlier in the context of the budget and the package of measures. From the centre party we can't see that the proposals have any new elements in them. From our point of view, it has been said that the measures taken in the context of the financial crisis must be targeted. When reference is made to increased tax relief here, it is not targeted enough when, for example: concerns a number of industrial holdings which are in a demanding transition period. In that case, it is not tax-free but, on the contrary, investment aid which is in the case of the most appropriate instrument. Corresponding to the employer’s fee, which is one of the main sources of funding for the welfare country. Providing a general reduction in the employer’s fees is, first of all, very expensive, and there is a reduction in the charges above, regardless of the situation of the enterprises, and it will not be a good use of scarce resources. The centre party is still taxed according to capacity and targeted actions, and will follow up on them further in the budgets. Finally, proposals have been made from the opposition related to sea-going operators. It's a proposal that the Central Party is particularly keen on. It is important to look at the deduction of entrepreneurial income so that it can be in a distributive relationship with the minimum deduction of employees. Furthermore, it is central to look at the social systems of maritime operators. It is central to the government and, unlike previous governments, the government has also made a positive contribution in this respect. Finally, the BSU scheme – Housing savings for young people. It is a proposal that is also central to looking at a situation where interest rates are now so low, and therefore it is important to also use the tax system to ensure that young people are trained to save and take care of the resources they receive during their youth, which are needed well when starting up a family.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1152	The Government and the Government parties propose to make changes to the tax regime in relation to the revised national budget. It might well call for a good news. The bad news is that the government is skeptical about its tax incentives to business, which were adopted just before Christmas – before we saw the extent of the financial crisis. It is also bad news that the Government and the bulk of the population do not now show any real willingness to transform the tax system in a more environmentally friendly direction. We have heard many fine words from the Government and representatives from the government parties about how important it is to transform the tax system in a more environmentally friendly way, but little has happened. This is the last option, and even now the government does not deliver. While the Left in this four-year period has proposed a total tax shift from red to green of SEK 7.5 billion, the Government has at best proposed changes of about half a billion. This is the same as tax deductions for trade union quotas during this period. The government’s problem, but also its possibility, is to have stuck to the 2004 tax level. It is simply absurd that regardless of economic developments, the 2004 tax level is the perfect one, according to the Government. In the view of the Left, it is the mechanism of the tax system that is important and not that the level is similar to that in 2004. The close history has also shown that providing targeted tax relief, as the previous government did, resulted in significantly increased tax revenue because it stimulated employment and investment in Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. The government's possibility is that once you've locked yourself to a certain level, all changes can take place within the same framework. This, in fact, should have been used for a proven neutral conversion in a more environmentally friendly direction rather than for symbol policies to ‘take the rich’. Is there a time when it would be right to implement a much more powerful conversion from red to green tax, it is right now. I'm worried that the government in this situation, during the financial crisis, forgets to keep the pressure on the measures needed to meet the climate crisis, which is the most important challenge we face. It is very regrettable that the Government, with certainty of precision, maintains the tax austerity for business in general and for owners and investors in small businesses in particular. The resolution of the 80 % rule is a targeted attack on those who want to own in Norwegian business. Intimidation into the rules of the exemption model is also a targeted attack on those who have shares and who thus own Norwegian enterprises. The same is true of the sharps in the valuation of commercial property and the changes in the valuation of shares. At a time when most arrows are pointing downwards for the companies, this error was thought in November when these changes were adopted, and it is even more wrong to doubt them today, when we know that development has been even worse than the government has done half a year ago. For this reason, the main proposal of the Left in our current position is to reverse tax austerity vis-à-vis business. It has a total cost framework of 800 million. kr. In addition, we propose a number of improvements: we propose to increase the depreciation rate by 5 pst. in balancing group d, and we propose to change the depreciation rates in a more environmentally friendly way. We propose a minimum deduction for self-employed workers, the removal of employers' fees for apprentices and increased rates in the TaxFUNN scheme. In addition, we propose to improve the social systems of self-employed people in order to encourage more – and especially women – to find it attractive to start and develop new business projects. All of this is aimed at creating new, sustainable jobs, and is a completely different way of thinking about the importance of taking care of businesses and business owners than the one that permeates government and government party policies. Overall, in its alternative to the revised national budget, the Left proposes a net tax relief of approximately 400 million. kr and a tax shift from red to green tax of approx. 600 million. kr, or as proposed by the Government throughout the period. Finally, I refer to the suggestions made by the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1180	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposals he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1185	I take the floor as a slightly delayed reply to the representative Heikki Holmås. It was interesting and also news that he is humble in his approach to what instruments might be effective. I think he's doing a very good job of being. When he says we've done a lot and we've put in particular measures to the construction industry, the construction industry, that's quite right. It's just that "we" means all, and not just the red-green parts. As far as tax relief is concerned, I also perceive that the representative Holmås is no longer talking about it as something that will benefit the rich, but that it is no longer targeted. This is progress. I think he should be aware that, for example. reducing the employer’s fee, which is the theme he addresses, is such that it will of course hit both companies that go badly and those that go better. But I think with the developments we see in the labour market, it is also important to stimulate and help those companies that are still doing well. This may get worse before it gets better, and I think the humility he's talking about is important to show also in relation to the focus. We believe that precisely that kind of action could have an impact. They'll be able to inspire companies that still go useful, to more optimism, perhaps even to hire someone from those who no longer have life's right and will go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1194	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1211	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1222	Social dumping has been a hot topic in the labour market since the eastern enlargement of the EU in 2004. We have seen that Eastern European workers on missions in Norway have been exploited in the most serious way. Press releases, reports from the Labour Inspectorate, and warnings from the trade union movement have revealed a side of Norwegian working life that we do not want: people who are tricked into paying, who are exposed to dangerous health and flammable living conditions, who get fired and are deported if they protest. Enterprises that treat their workers in this way have been commissioned by individuals, by municipalities, by countries, by serious entrepreneurs and by unprofessional operators, especially in construction and industry. The working party, the other government parties and the trade movement agree that such conditions must be countered by the means available to us. Work in Norway is to be paid according to Norwegian conditions – if you work and create values in Norway, you will earn enough to live here. Serious Norwegian craft companies are being outrun by unprofessional operators, and our entire working life model has been threatened. That is why we are designing an action plan against social dumping in 2006. This was followed up by Action Plan 2 in the 2009 budget. We have strengthened the supervisory authorities with several positions and powers to do a job against social dumping. We have provided trusted access rights to pay and working conditions for employees of subcontractors. We have imposed an obligation on contracting entities to ensure that pay and working conditions are as they should be – to mention something. The trade union movement on its side has been the case for the employees concerned. They have been organized, helped, and they have been incorporated into the warmth of the trade unions. And the businesses have contributed. Let it be clear that the vast majority of Norwegian companies are serious and do not want to be associated with social dumping. In the construction industry, there have been problems with frivolous reputations even before social dumping emerged as a theme. The industry’s own serious project, in cooperation with the trade union movement and the authorities, has led to the creation of StartBANK, a database of enterprises that can be considered serious. The tree is now definitely over. The severe crisis in the international economy is bringing unemployment rates up to the level we had before the government shift in 2005, and we see that unemployment is greatest and growing rapidly in the sectors that have experienced much social dumping. Does this mean that we now have fewer foreign workers and thus less problems with social dumping? The answer to that I think is yes and no. Last year the Labour Inspectorate supervised social dumping in the construction industry, of which 79 pst. has ended with reactions. Labour demand is falling, and the labour market is declining. But this can also lead to tougher competition and tougher pressure on serious businesses. Together with the repeal of the transitional rules for workers from eight EU countries, the Labour Inspectorate is afraid that there will be more social dumping in 2009. In the long term, we have to consider that we will need more labour than we ourselves are. A free European labour market leads to more cross-border work, but harmonisation of pay and working conditions in the region will take a long time. It will therefore be necessary, in the foreseeable future, to have instruments in place to ensure equivalent pay and working conditions and to prevent unhealthy competition threatening the Norwegian labour market. Law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements is undoubtedly the most important law available to us in the fight against social dumping. This law permits the possibility of laying down statutory pay and working conditions. It supports all of the most powerful instruments we have used, such as the obligation to provide services to contracting entities, the right of access to trusted persons and the right to joint and several liability. The law is robust in relation to EU law, and it is adapted to Norwegian labour traditions by the fact that there are negotiated terms and conditions of pay and employment that are generalised, not politically specific levels. The levels of wages and salaries which are generalised are the minimum rates in the collective bargaining agreements. Let me illustrate this: I am a member of the Timber Trade Union in Bergen and get information about salary rates and the like on the outside of the spring party every year. This year, the minimum hourly wage for the construction subjects is NOK 142.75 for the skilled, while the average hourly wage for the industry according to the statistics of the Statistical Centre is NOK 199.24. That is, the general salary is well 70 pst. of the national average, with only 60 pst. the salary of the carpenters in Bergen who work on chords, and on average they earn 241 kroner per hour. In my opinion, this is a clear evidence that the public sector primarily ensures a decent salary for non-resident workers. There is in no way a protectionist measure to protect Norwegian jobs. The General Public Service Act works mainly well, but it is necessary to make some clarifications and adjustments in order to make the law more effective. The requirement for evidence of social dumping for the adoption of decisions on public procurement has been discussed. It is primarily the employees’ side that applies for contracts made public and, since the trade movement has no legal basis for outsourcing wage agreements, wage cuts, employment contracts, etc., the requirement for evidence has proved to be an obstacle to public disclosure. It is therefore natural that we now in the form of legislation make it clear that the evidence to be used to address the issue of tariffs should give reason to believe that social dumping is taking place. It is then up to the collective bargaining department to obtain sufficient evidence that the case is so well informed that decisions can be taken. The continuation of decisions on public disclosure is also a theme where it is appropriate to clarify the intentions of legislators. In a new section 8 we now say that the denominator can take decisions on the continuation of public service without providing new documentation on pay and working conditions in the industry. The background to this is that if a public service decision is complied with, it would not be possible, in the majority’s view, to comply with the legal requirements on documentation, while there may be a need for continued public service to avoid a reoccurrence of problems. In the hearing of the ministry on this subject, the NHO stated that this reasoning, in the view of the NHO, was an error. ‘If the public service decision is complied with, there is no longer any basis for the scheme. Otherwise, compliance with the documentation requirement would be unproblematic.» This interpretation of the documentation requirement in the case of continuation by an operator as important as the NHO makes it absolutely necessary to establish that the assessment theme in the case of continuation of the public service decisions must be at risk in order to re-establish problems of the public service. It is clear that at the first continuation there will be less need for substantiation of these assessments with evidence of the state of the industry than in subsequent continuation decisions. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the wording of the Government’s proposal for the second paragraph of Section 8 could provide a basis for misinterpretation of the intention by the first paragraph and therefore we do not support the adoption of this part of the Government’s proposal. We have done a great deal to ensure the level of pay and working conditions for non-resident workers on a job in Norway, but we have not had a good enough legal instrument for these employees to pay this salary. In notes to the Committee, the Joint Undertaking states that last year’s Oslo Building Workers’ Association brought proceedings for non-payment of salaries for 241 non-resident workers and that Free Legal Assistance in Oslo led 123 cases. In other words, there is a large amount of such cases, and for a worker who lives in, for example: Poland, it is difficult to follow a normal legal process in Norway to obtain wages, as a Northman can. The joint and several liability of contracting entities in a chain of contracts will give these employees the right to receive remuneration from any enterprise over their own employer in the contract chain. The model proposed in the proposal is based on an equivalent German joint and several liability scheme that has worked well for ten years now. It helps employees to receive the remuneration they are entitled to, and it results in contracting entities being careful to select serious subcontractors. The majority believe that there is every reason to believe that a similar scheme will have the same effect in Norway. During the examination of the case, there has been considerable disagreement between the social partners on the deadlines for making claims, and there has been a request from the employer team for a longer period of pay. The majority of the Committee points out that the setting of these deadlines is based on a multi-purpose balance and supports the Government’s proposals of three months and three weeks respectively. In this case, there are sharp contradictions between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the one hand and the remaining opposition parties on the other. These contradictions also reflect the contradictions in working life at these points. From the Labour Party we believe that the parties have the best conditions for cleaning up the labour market. Should they be able to do so, we must, on the one hand, impose responsibility on employers, and we must give trust-elected rights to help clean up the industry. Today's debate will show that these contradictions also exist between the political parties. It was not possible to come to a unanimous position in this matter, but I think we can live well with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1295	There is no doubt that the introduction of joint and several liability will lead to an increase in costs for both industry and the consumer. One of the reasons is that I assume that the subcontractors will have to provide bank guarantees to the main contractors. This, of course, leads to an increase in cost. In addition, it would be possible for the smaller enterprises to have liquidity problems. Thus they cannot renew equipment and machinery as they should be able to do. This will, of course, lead to some companies falling out of competition. Most of these enterprises are small, serious enterprises that give workers decent conditions. Is it so that the Workers' Party is afraid that many of those who work in these places may lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1302	What we consider to be perhaps the most important effect of the introduction of joint and several liability is prevention. It is that you simply want to select subcontractors that you believe in will behave in such a way that the joint and several liability is not activated. This could be done, for example, by: is done by using the checklist, such as the rental companies or the company engaged in subcontracting. The party referred to in its comments, vis-à-vis its subcontractors, or in other ways arranges for subcontractors whom they know to pay their employees the remuneration they claim. If the fact that employees are paid would lead to an increase in costs in the industry, I think that is a necessary increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1309	The representative Henriksen says that the parties have to sort things out. A question that burned all the way here, which I have not really understood, is: Why not run the joint and several liability to the top? The public is exempt. I don't quite understand that. Then it appears in the setting that this is comparable to that in Germany. Germany has a slightly different corporate structure than what we have in Norway. Isn't Henriksen a little nervous that this could hit small businesses very much? For the risk of bankruptcy, the greater part will be there. In an interview on 6 May on the Workers' Party's own website, the representative Henriksen says that the goal is work for everyone. A lot of this can actually work against just that. Does Henriksen share my view of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1318	Over these years of this growing-up period, where I have been a big business representative and have worked on these issues, I have received enquiries from many small business managers and have heard many small business managers who have said that they are unable to survive in competition with unprofessional operators. I think it's important for small businesses and for the industries that it's about here, to make sure that we get clean competition. Serious Norwegian small businesses that act in a proper way are absolutely competitive, but they cannot compete against anyone who does not pay their wages. So to this with the building developer's responsibility, or we're going to say the contracting entity's responsibility, where the representative of Skkelstad says that the public is exempt. It is such that all the orders or contracting entities at the top of the chain, whether it is a builder or there is a shipowner for that matter, are excluded per. today. But there is now in the bill a regulatory home that makes it possible to introduce this kind of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1325	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1328	In this case, the introduction of joint and several liability is the most important change proposed. Although the government parties in the Grand Duchy do not agree with the Government, the Progress Party agrees with all the points proposed by the Government, with the exception of those relating to joint responsibility. There are several reasons why we do not support solidarity. One reason is the duration of new measures under the Public Service Act and the possibilities to strengthen its action. In particular, I would like to refer to all the measures promoted by the NHO in previous treatment of the Public Service Act, where they proposed the introduction of a checklist. Such a list may include, inter alia: based on evidence that the subcontractor has made a promise to comply with the remuneration and working conditions requirements of the public service regulations, proof that the subcontractors have been registered and have sent information to the tax authorities that the subcontractor is registered in the Brønn Island Health Register as a requirement for the presentation of a tax certificate as a requirement for the submission of a company certificate from the home Member State; The introduction of such a follow-up will not create the issues of solidarity. On the contrary, the follow-up will put pressure on the employer to ensure that everyone in the contract chain follows the intentions of the Working Environment Act. The introduction of joint and several liability would lead to a high risk that medium-sized and small subcontractors, entrepreneurs who are not large enough to take on a main enterprise, could fall out of competition for new tasks. It is quite obvious that the bill brings with it large costs that have to be paid by someone at the end of the day. The reason for this is that the main contractor will secure a claim for compensation from any underpaid employee, which in turn means that subcontractors will have to provide bank guarantees to ensure that the right remuneration is paid. One is, of course, that this is expensive, but what can well be so dangerous is that the liquidity of the companies gets worse. In many cases, the money to buy new machinery and equipment could be at risk of making bank guarantees. This means that workers in such enterprises are at risk of having to work in a worse working environment with old machinery and equipment, or at worst to lose their jobs because of the new legislation being introduced. In particular, this is worrying in the wake of the financial crisis, where many of these enterprises are in a difficult period. It becomes extra worrying when you know that approx. 80 pst. of all enterprises in Norway have fewer than five employees. The result may lead to a transition from organised work to more undeclared work, where everything is outside the control authorities' reach. This could lead to more instead of less social dumping. I think everyone in the Stortinget wants orderly relationships for employees. Therefore, I see that there is a great deal of agreement on the main points of the Public Service Act and measures to ensure the employment of workers, and to ensure that wages are not paid that are so low that they are called social dumping. The vast majority of Norwegian businesses are serious enterprises with hard-working owners and workers. It is worrying that, in order to take a small group of unprofessional actors, one chooses to hit an entire industry. The introduction of a joint and several liability scheme will lead to far more expensive construction and maintenance in addition to the Norwegian workplaces. Because it is not that the contractors themselves are going to pay bank guarantees or costs that come into the wake of joint and several liability. No, it's going to be forwarded to the contracting entities, whether it's county, state, enterprise or individuals, i.e. an already high price level in Norway is rising further. For a main contractor to have full control of all subcontractors would be an impossibility, and unprofessional operators would always be in the market. In order to bring it to life, the answer is not solidarity, but rather a strengthening of the Public Service Act and its enforcement. I record that the government parties do not support the Government's proposal on the introduction of new Section 8 of the Proposition. To the extent that there is some consolation, the Progress Party does so, and promotes proposals for a new Section 8 which is identical to what the Government has proposed. I will deal with the proposals that the Progress Party is dealing with alone or with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1368	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1374	Last year the joint venture registered 364 cases in which non-resident workers had not been paid, only in Oslo. The Progress Party has not mentioned the interests of these employees in its comments or Kenneth Svendsen in its submission. It's the company's woe and well that worries the party. This oneness of the Advance Party clearly shows which side the party is on. But is it right that joint and several liability will lead to bankruptcy and misery for Norwegian companies? In the debate two years ago on Easter duty and transparency, I referred to painter Harald Askautrud in Oslo, who could tell that he had to cancel people because he couldn't compete with all the unprofessional players in the industry. Does the representative Svendsen not believe that the threat of being held liable for non-wage can lead to contracting entities choosing serious subcontractors, and that joint and several liability will in this way actually strengthen the serious situation of Norwegian small businesses in the competition for assignments?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1383	First of all, I did not mention the employees in my post. I paid considerable attention to the interests of employees, and therefore I also mentioned the Working Environment Act and the Public Service Act. Of course, we are afraid that this will lead to an increase in bankruptcies, and we are also looking to take unprofessional businesses that run on the edge of the labour market we have in Norway. But then we think, as we have said several times, that we can use all the other means, for example. the list provided by the NHO, because it will not lead to any increase in bankruptcies in other enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1388	The Progress Party and Kenneth Svendsen claim that enforcement of the Public Procurement Act is more important than joint and several liability. Then it's a little interesting to see what the Progress Party is doing with the apparatus to be used for enforcement. In this year's budget, the Progress Party has cut 58 million. kr in the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. There is reason to ask how this control of the public service institution, or the other measures against social dumping, should be carried out when the measure to ensure that ordinary people are not exploited is exposed to such axe dumps. We can also read in the recital what the Progress Party believes about the budgetary measures against social dumping: it says: ‘Unfortunately, the fight against social dumping has been equally active in preventing wage competition’. Perhaps the representative could also explain to cleaners and construction workers how much they should pay to participate in the competition that the Progress Party seems necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1398	Firstly, there is competition for pay today in Norway, and that is a healthy competition. That's why we have different levels of pay in the different professions. It's part of the Norwegian working system. With regard to the cuts in the Petroleum Control and the Labour Inspectorate, we are cutting in a lot of areas where we put pressure on efficiency improvement. That is also one of the reasons why we have put out a lot of bids. I just want to mention what happened in Mesta. When Mesta was converted into a limited company and took an active part in the competition, much more was produced for fewer kroner. That's exactly what we want to do in the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. We're not going to put them on the market, but we're going to make it more efficient. This means that with more efficient operation, they might do more with the same money than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1405	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1408	Today, Odelstinget will adopt a change in law that will harm Norwegian business, which will make it more difficult for businesses to be on the right side of the law, and which will ultimately also harm employees, by introducing, as the majority advocates, so-called solidarity responsibility. It is a paradox when it is claimed that the purpose of the Government’s case is to ensure good pay and working conditions in Norway. In 2007, the last time that Odelstinget dealt with measures against social dumping, the Government considered that joint and several liability for contracting entities would be a very interventional measure which ‘may impose significant financial and administrative burdens on the undertakings’. It was stressed that this would in particular affect small and medium-sized enterprises, which often will not have the same liquidity as larger enterprises, or have the same administrative resources to investigate whether the contractor is a serious business. Today, two years later, this position is totally reversed. Before the changes that were made in 2007 have been given the opportunity to sit down, i.e. have been practised and data on the practice have been collected in a serious way, it is proposed that the measure that the Government has previously considered to have been too intrusive. You can ask yourself why that happens. In 2007, it was emphasised that joint and several liability was a claim from the trade union movement. In 2009 it is a choice. There's obviously a context here. The right is for its part for labour immigration and against social dumping. Norwegian companies have long benefited from the fact that people from other countries come here to work. In the pre-financial crisis period, there was a need to stimulate increased labour migration. Therefore, the Right-wing Initiative to make Norway a more attractive labour market for migrant workers took place, an initiative in which several of the proposals were subsequently followed up by the Government. One of the advantages of competition in Norway is that we have a clean working life. We have orderly working conditions, with pay and working conditions that allow those who come here as migrant workers to make good money for themselves and their families. Labour immigration is the best form of cross-border social cohesion. However, unfortunately, there are not a number of examples where foreign labour is not provided with the pay and work conditions that we are all concerned with in Norway. Consumer actors in the labour market must be taken into account. In order to achieve this, we need strong labour supervision, which the Right has added resources to all its alternative state budgets. The way in which we are to ensure that unprofessional actors profit from providing poor working conditions to immigrants are targeted. It is therefore essential that the regulations made have been implemented and do not weaken the framework conditions for the same business and employment. When the majority today trumps through joint and several liability, that's exactly what's happening. Although the objective is less social dumping, the result can easily be more social dumping. When the regulation becomes so extensive that many businesses will not have liquidity for, for example: to provide the expected wage guarantees, many will find themselves in a situation where there is a choice between shutting down the business or operating on the edge of the law. In his eagerness to meet the trade union movement at one of their strongest demands against an important election campaign for the red-green parties, the government goes unimpaired against a previous attitude towards solidarity. In 2007, the consequences of joint and several liability were described by the Government as follows: ‘The measure could also affect small enterprises operating as contractors/subcontractors, because the measure is likely to favour large, large-scale incumbents in a tendering process. The introduction of joint and several liability for obligations under the Public Service Act therefore requires the existence of overriding public interest and a clearly documented need.» So we're not just dealing with a measure that can be harmful to business, but that's also distorting competition. Knowing that the majority of Norwegian jobs in the private sector are in small and medium-sized enterprises, this is worrying. In today’s odelsting proposal, it should be expected that such burdensome general considerations and a clearly documented need existed, as envisaged by the Government in 2007. I can't see that it does. On the contrary, it seems that the Government and the majority of this House are living in the error that several cases of social dumping have to mean that there is more social dumping today than it did a few years ago. There is reason to recall that for many years, including beyond the current period, the United Kingdom and the social partners have had a strong focus on identifying and preventing social dumping. Many measures agreed by all parties have already been put in place. The right, for its part, has addressed and prioritised in its alternative budgets a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, as the Government itself has subsequently committed. We have implemented a wide range of measures to detect social dumping. Then there can be no surprise to anyone that we actually also see that the supervisory tasks are more effective and that they are more revealed. When we have been aiming at social dumping through supervision and other measures, and have proposed to allocate money for this, it is an example that we have done a good job in prevention, not that social dumping is necessarily more widespread now than before. In the consultation round of the odelstingsproposition, a number of interventions have been made by the employer, which just points to the difficulties I have mentioned. But business clearly knows what kind of government they're dealing with. They're pragmatists, at least their organizations, and now they realize that once the government has decided to introduce solidarity, it becomes that way. Pragmatically, changes have been introduced which would at least make it easier to comply with the law of business. For example, this has been related to the number of points for which a contracting entity is jointly and severally liable. There have been deadlines for delivering pay claims to the co-owner, and deadlines for the co-payer to pay the salary. But none of these recordings have been listened to. The heavy-weight assessments of which the Government was concerned in 2007 are therefore not so important anymore. On the right, a working life in which unprofessional enterprises exploiting workers are to be taken, but one should not add up to a system where the vast majority of Norwegian enterprises, which are serious, are to pay for the presence of a few unprofessional operators. I note, however, that with the government's policy, a line is being drawn in which the framework conditions for the overwhelming majority of serious Norwegian companies are deteriorating, because there are unprofessional actors. We believe this is a bad proposal, and that it is little targeted, to use a term that the government parties have used very actively earlier in the part of the revised debate that took place in Odelstinget an hour ago, a proposal that will also make it more difficult for Norwegian companies to be on the right side of the law. That is why the Right will vote against the motion for a resolution on solidarity, and we cannot, of course, take responsibility for the changes in the law that the majority are pushing through today. I would like to point out, as in the past, from the Progress Party, that the opposition has previously proposed alternatives, a checklist containing the facts that it is important to document, and which in its practice and administration to businesses will be a much easier burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1435	It's wrong when the Right says that the majority and the Government have turned this case around. On the contrary, it was announced that developments should be closely monitored and new measures should be taken if necessary. It became necessary. Social responsibility shall prevent the problem of non-payment of wages and salaries. The consequences of using unprofessional subcontractors shall revert to those who choose to use them rather than to use a serious one, who pay their employees what they are entitled to and who must also take it into account in their prices. We are therefore not surprised that the right has no sense of solidarity and, in other debates on social dumping, it has also demonstrated that the right has no sense of rights of trust and obligations for employers to combat social dumping. On the other hand, they have an almost touching confidence that an unobligatory checklist will make the suspension where the subcontractor makes promises. But do not the Right believe that joint and several liability will lead to the contracting entity, at least for its own good and good, carefully checking its subcontractors before hiring them in, thus achieving an even better and more targeted effect in the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1446	I am not sure if I understand what the representative puts in the term ‘snow’. I thought it was when you have a different opinion than last time. But it's possible that in and of itself, with the present coalition, it's an obsolete term. There is now a proposal that you did not last have and which you last warned against, because they would put on the business'significant financial and administrative burdens' because it would lead to distortions of competition, etc. If it's not turning around now to have a proposal of the same type, I don't understand how to provide data to document the effects within two years. In any case, the proposition does not contain such convincing data. And of course it's not there. This is politics, and the pressure from the outside has made this necessary. I understand it's a campaign. I pointed out that we knew where it was going. With regard to the costs for enterprises, many will certainly take into account that these costs have to be incurred. The rapporteur also said in a previous reply that if it led to cost increases, the cost increases were correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1455	We are only allowed to record that the Right is not interested in answering the question if they do not believe that serious Norwegian contractors will choose serious subcontractors when they risk liability for wages, as the representative has now failed to answer. But then maybe I can challenge the Right to answer what they mean by what they write in the budget setting for this year: ‘Unfortunately, the fight against social dumping has been equally active in preventing wage competition’. It must mean that those who work in these vulnerable industries who are struggling with social dumping, for example. Norwegian construction workers, or for that matter those working in the hotel and restaurant industries, or cleaners, shall compete more on their wages. For all ordinary workers, it means falling in wages. Can the Right explain that this is the reason why the Right is opposed to the measures against social dumping, namely that they want more differences in wages and that Norwegian workers are going down in wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1467	No, that's not it. But to answer directly to the last question: That there is competition on pay in Norway, isn't the representative unknown? The level of pay is not the same in a press area as in an edge area. It may not be the same in Oslo and Bergen either, or in the representative's home country, as it has, at least in the press years we've been through, been in the Oslo area. So, competition on pay is going on, and we're really going to be happy about that, because it's for the benefit of the employees that you can raise higher wages where the pressure is high, and this has been exploited to its advantage in many, many places. I'm glad. Yes, I think you will choose serious subcontractors, but it's not always that easy to see, and then you have to take insurance that has costs, to avoid the risk of joint and several liability.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1475	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1478	SV is very pleased with the matter we are dealing with today, because there is a need to ensure that both Norwegian workers have proper pay and working conditions, that everyone working in Norway should have it, and that Norwegian companies are not exposed to unprofessional competition from people who do not pay and provide good working conditions. It is therefore incredibly important that we have arrangements that ensure that people actually get the pay they are entitled to. The government has implemented many measures against social dumping, and the social partners have also used the Public Service Institute, which is perhaps the most powerful means of combating social dumping. Solidarity also becomes an instrument to be used by the public sector body. This means that there is evidence that social dumping is taking place before such an agreement is published. And then it's the minimum wage within this tariff area that becomes the floor plan of the whole system, as the case-rapporteur pointed out. It is extremely important that we ensure that we do not get a negative spiral and a negative competition on pay, so I understand that both the Advance Party and the Right are concerned that we should get. Because it may not be that competition for pay between employees who are to take up a job in these industries would mean getting more in pay. Competition for wages and salaries in these industries is based on the fact that wages and salaries are too low and that there is also a desire to reduce the level of wages and salaries of Norwegian workers through this type of competition. In this system, both the Right and the Advance Party have said that it is considered that these measures are instruments to prevent competition on wages – not in the case of other workers, but in the areas where collective bargaining agreements have been published. We know that there is unsocial and illegal competition on wages, which means that people actually don't get paid what they have earned by their own employer. I am absolutely convinced that this measure will lead to the closure of the unprofessional companies. I understand that this is a burden on some companies, but it is not very different from the responsibility they have today for taxes and charges in relation to their subcontractors. I am absolutely convinced that the worst thing for Norwegian small businesses is to be competing with non-commercial companies that do not comply with the Norwegian tariff agreement and that do not comply with Norwegian law. In that competition, Norwegian small businesses are totally excluded and helpless. A lot of small businesses tell us that this is the case. There has been a question about why not large contracting entities, such as the public must have the same responsibility. In the proposal and in the decision now presented, the Government is allowed to have a regulation on this theme. I think that's reason to look at it, especially in relation to the public sector. But I would also like to remind you that one of the measures put in place by the Government is that ILO Convention No. 94 applies to both the State and the municipal sector. This means that the contracting entities are responsible for ensuring that Norwegian pay and working conditions are applied in the contracts they enter into. This regulatory home has been granted access by the Government, and we should not ignore the fact that there may be a need to use it, because it can be referred to cases of social dumping where the contracting entity should have realised that the bid it took on a mission must be based on the fact that no one is paid. In my own home country, it has just been such a bigger case. It has now been resolved, but there is no doubt that the major contracting authority, which is a contracting authority, should have understood that there was someone who was not paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1498	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1501	I understood that Andersen's representative was very concerned about this with competition for pay, and that she had not come to realize that there is competition for wages and salaries in society. In addition, I realized that the representative Andersen believes that when the Progress Party wants competition, it is negative competition, and when SV wants competition, it is positive competition. It would have been interesting to hear what's the difference in the two ways of competing. I perhaps perceived the representative so that she wanted equal pay for equal work anyway. Does this mean that the representative is against local negotiations? Does this mean that you want a fixed salary level, which is about the middle of the tree, where it is today? Would she then like to reduce the salary of those who have a higher salary? How are you going to organise it when you're totally against pay competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1508	This reply shows, however, that the party of progress is on relatively thin ice in this matter. I have also referred to a note that the Progress Party and the Right have written in the budget, saying that the measures 'to combat social dumping have unfortunately been just as much a work to prevent competition on wages'. So we're talking about social dumping, and if you're going to compete for pay with social dumping, you can't do anything but want the pay level for Norwegian workers to go down. That means SV is wrong. The system we have with wage negotiations in Norway, and with good pay and working conditions for Norwegian workers, SV is committed to defending. If we do not take action against social dumping, it threatens the pay and working conditions of all workers in Norway. That's SV strongly opposed. This is why we want these measures, both in the interests of those currently undergoing social dumping, and in the interests of the majority of Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1515	In a look-up on SV’s websites, the representative Andersen says that it is important to ‘close out unprofessional businesses and create security for people to get the pay they are entitled to’. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with that. Then the representative says that everyone must comply with Norwegian law. Yes, of course! We all agree on that, but the interesting thing that the representative comes up with is that this can be problematic for small businesses. Yeah, I think so. In the Joint Undertaking's demands for solidarity, they want six months instead of three months. I could imagine hearing Andersen's principal opinion on that, if it had been a better arrangement than what we are most likely to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1520	I believe, as I said in my post, that the biggest threat to Norwegian small businesses is that we are not able to open up the unprofessional, which underpays people and operates with working conditions that are dangerous, but cheap. Social dumping is extremely profitable. That is why we need to take tough action against it. I am fully in favour of the solution to the deadlines chosen by the Government in this matter, and I believe that a side effect of introducing what we are doing today may be that some companies will choose to hire more people in their permanent staff, rather than renting many small suppliers. It's a side effect that SV is very happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1527	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1530	The Government proposes to introduce a form of joint and several liability in which the contracting entity imposes on an objective basis the obligations of the contracting entity and its contractors down the contract chain to pay wages and salaries in accordance with public policy requirements. The measure, proposed as a new section 13 of the Generalisation Act, is intended to ensure that non-resident workers are paid according to public policy. The submitted joint and several liability model is based on the regulation of the German legislation on posted workers. Germany has had rules on joint and several liability since 1999. According to the Ministry, the scheme contributes to more serious subcontracting by contracting entities. When the committee was in Berlin, we were told by both the employer and the employee that this was something they would recommend to Norway. Today's law is based on this positive experience with the law. In 2007, the scheme in Germany was extended to clean-up and specific postal services, and further extensions to six new industries have now been adopted. There are several measures aimed at combating social dumping linked to the public sector scheme, including: the competence of the supervisory board, the duty of oversight and the right of access to the trustees. Although the bag duty has only been effective for a short time, the feedback is positive. However, following an overall assessment, the Christian People's Party has come to recommend that we support the proposal, since there are still social dumping issues in Norway, and there may be several such issues after the removal of the transitional labour mobility regimes in the EEA. The introduction of joint and several liability may, in our view, be more effective and complementary to the duty of care, because the possibility of being able to discharge financial responsibilities may be an incentive to carry out the investigations and controls of the contractors to whom the obligation of liability applies. The experience of Germany shows that contracting entities choose serious subcontractors. I see no reason why this is not also the result in Norway. This will lead to a smooth competitive environment in the sectors in which the collective bargaining agreements have been published. The fulfilment of the pay obligations is a fundamental right of employees. Everyone has financial obligations and needs and is totally dependent on the payment of wages and salaries for work done. The Christian People's Party is generally concerned that businesses should have the best possible framework conditions and the simplest possible legislation to deal with. In this way, the basis is laid for the creation of value, well-being and secure jobs. At the same time, it is absolutely essential for the Christian People's Party to safeguard the rights of workers. We see good social rights as a central part of the Nordic model and a win-win situation for workers and businesses in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1545	First, I want to highlight something of vital importance for us to be able to combat the unworthy conditions in our working life that lead to an increasing level of social dumping in more and more industries, and that is that we are experiencing a free movement of temporary and temporary workers within the EEA area that creates more and more temporary jobs, worse working conditions and social dumping. We have rules to control the crew companies, including: requirements for registration in the Labour Inspectorate, and this works, as far as I am aware, not according to the regulations. There are more than 1,800 crew companies in Norway today. Only about 600 have been registered in the Labour Inspectorate. The remaining 1,200 do not operate according to the requirements of the Labour Inspectorate, and this is one of the main reasons for the major challenges of unworthy working conditions. It was the result of the Blaalid Committee's suspension, which in its time opened up for the free flow of temporary workers and crew companies. It was one of many measures to adapt Norwegian working life to EU rules because of the EEA Agreement. Followers of the EEA Agreement supported these measures in due time. It's time we took a settlement with this negative development and looked at what we can do to get this under control. There were clear signals from the LO Congress in May to the big business and government to clean up the situation. It is up to the red-green parties to put these issues in place for the benefit of Norwegian working life, for the workers and thus to improve productivity and maintain and develop jobs. It is publicising collective bargaining agreements and solidarity that are on the agenda today, but I would like to hear the Council of State deepening the negative development of manning companies and social dumping, which is undoubtedly a challenge for the red-green alliance in terms of trust among broad layers of trade unionised and workers in our country. This is an increasingly demanding challenge, because while it is becoming more interesting for the balders to work in Norway, there are also fewer jobs to offer. Securing Norwegian wage and working conditions through the publication of collective bargaining agreements is an important issue. Making access to public services more efficient is important, and it is central that more industries come under it when we see how the need is pressed. In the case of social dumping, the background is the wage and working conditions of workers from foreign activities temporarily on duty in Norway. It becomes important now that the transitional arrangements for Eastern European EU countries, with the exception of Romania and Bulgaria, have been repealed from 1 May and no longer apply to pay and working conditions for the granting of a work permit. I want to concentrate on the joint and several liability, i.e. the demands of the employee towards the employer in the contract chain for wages and holiday pay. Experience has shown that the risk of non-payment of public pay to posted workers is greater than for workers employed in Norwegian activities. So the change in the law is based on experience, and I want to make it clear that the job that the Oslo Building Workers' Association has done here is a great effort to get better conditions on the labour market, which I think everyone will recognise in retrospect. So solidarity is particularly important for workers posted from a foreign operation. Solidarity is a necessary tool to create more orderly conditions in the relevant industries and will provide a strong motivation for sponsors to choose subcontractors who operate seriously and comply with Norwegian law. And I would like to stress this: it will also give more fair competition to contracting entities, not least Norwegian companies will benefit greatly from it. I have a number of enquiries that point out that this is central to realizing. It's an interesting alliance we see in this case. It is commendable that the government parties have received support from the Christian People's Party, which sees the need for clarification of the responsibilities at all stages of the chain. It gives cleaner relationships, more fair competition. The time limit for the submission of claims against the co-pilot and for the payment by the co-pilot is based on a multi-stakeholder balance. The deadline for the submission of claims has been proposed for three months and payment by the co-pilot is equivalent to three weeks. For this, I would ask the Ministry to go in for clarification in the regulation, so that notice of claims within the three-month period means that the deadline is kept. The employee is then given a period of three weeks in order to substantiate the alert with a specific claim to cover the non-paid salary and holiday pay. As a result, the employee will have the necessary time to provide evidence, which in many cases is very demanding. I am pleased that the public service agency and the joint and several liability raise some of the problems of increasing numbers of temporary workers and temporary workers, companies that do not have tradition in Norwegian working life. In Norwegian working life, we have paid off, and those who have been hired have been hired by companies that have their own activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1569	It's a little strange to hear the debate here today. Government parties clearly have a great interest in growing contradictions when attacking what they call the right-hand side, in order not to distance themselves from social dumping. So let's establish it right away: the left is against social dumping in all forms. Taking advantage of people from other countries by giving them poor working conditions or low wages is an obscenity that needs to be combated. We're not part of the so-called right parties either. We're a civil center party. But we do not accept that by being against what we think is symbolism policy, one is stamped for wanting to exploit the labour force of other countries. We want to fight social dumping, but we have taken on board that what we have most of in this country is small and medium-sized enterprises. For them, this law will not work. Initially, joint and several liability sounds good. According to the Act, joint and several liability will imply that the contracting entity shall also be responsible for the obligations of contracting entities down the contract chain to pay wages according to the regulations governing the public service. In practice, it means a bureaucracy that we believe will be completely impossible to follow, and we also believe that other and better solutions and existing schemes could work better. That's why we're with the minority on a proposal for a checklist instead. We share the Government's view on the importance of the general government scheme to ensure the pay and working conditions of foreign workers on a mission in Norway. It is also important to highlight the importance of the public service scheme in order to prevent distortions of competition to the detriment of serious undertakings offering decent pay and working conditions to their employees. Social dumping is both if foreign workers are exposed to violations of health, environmental and security rules and are offered wages that are unacceptably low. Labour immigration is positive. It contributes to social cohesion; people from other countries come to Norway for shorter or longer periods of time to make money, which in turn contributes to growth and prosperity in their country of origin. It is therefore important that work against social dumping is based on ensuring good working conditions for immigrants. We distance ourselves from a definition that describes everything that is not publicized as social dumping. It is obvious that the public authority must be able to require contracting entities to make a good and proper assessment prior to the conclusion of contracts and that contracting entities require their contractors to comply with the applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions. However, if contracting entities are to be able to ensure that subcontractors/suppliers pay wages, cover a certain number of home trips, meals and lodgings, and comply with the working time regulations of the public service, etc., this means that the contracting entity must enter the enterprises and carry out controls. In our view, this is a matter for the Labour Inspectorate. That is why, in our alternative budgets, we have also given more resources to the Labour Inspectorate to improve their ability to exercise their control powers. The result of introducing joint and several liability towards employees from subcontractors may lead to the opposite result, namely that subcontractors do not take their responsibility for paying salaries seriously and leave the contracting entity to resolve the problem with the subcontractor's employees. It would be almost impossible to deal with because in most cases the contracting entity will have little means of controlling the down the chain of subcontractors. The left is concerned that many companies with few employees will be burdened with considerable additional burdens and responsibilities that we fear will lead to an increase in the number of bankruptcies and closures of operations in Norwegian companies. Are contracting entities to be required to have the necessary competence for such control? It would be particularly problematic for small enterprises and contracting entities to be required to carry out such controls. Lack of competence and economy are two major problem areas in this respect. We believe that this government has little relation to reality, and that they believe that Norway is made up of giant companies, in line with what you have, among other things. in Germany. Several have pointed out that the Langemyhr case would not be prevented with joint and several liability. There it was the authority that was the contracting authority. I have to repeat that social dumping is, and will be, an obscurity. But there are still alternatives that will be much better than today's legislative proposals. The checklist that I mentioned instead, I have believed that would work and be a far more unbureaucratic model than what the majority is going to go for today. Much better solutions are available. About 80 pst. Norwegian enterprises have fewer than 10 employees. For these, and thus for the vast majority of businesses in Norway, the proposed joint and several liability legislation will lead to major challenges. We are particularly afraid that the result will be more social dumping and not less, more black work and not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1592	The government is concerned that all workers in Norway should have good and safe jobs and proper pay and working conditions. Since we joined in the autumn of 2005, we have been working systematically to put in place good measures against social dumping. This is important both for the individual worker concerned, for serious enterprises in competition with unprofessionals, and to ensure the continuation of the Norwegian labour market model. The government’s first action plan against social dumping has had a good impact, especially on large construction companies. At the same time, we see that foreign workers continue to be exploited by offering lower wages and lower safety and health standards than is acceptable in the Norwegian labour market. When the majority today are in favour of joint and several liability, I believe this is a reform that will be of great importance in Norwegian working life. Today, it is the employer who is responsible for paying wages and salaries in accordance with the general regulation. The amendment of the law will mean that suppliers who outsource contracts will also be responsible for the obligations of employees to sub-contractors down the contract chain. Solidarity shall occur when the employee’s salary is not paid as it is due. The employee may then apply to an optional supplier up the chain. In particular, non-resident workers will be given greater certainty that they will be paid the salary they claim when the salary requirement can also be addressed to a contracting entity in Norway. Furthermore, solidarity would be a strong motivation for contracting entities to choose subcontractors who operate seriously and comply with Norwegian law. The regulation will not least take social dumping in the smaller and unprofessional enterprises. The minority is concerned about the consequences of joint and several liability, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that joint and several liability will primarily help to open up unprofessional subcontractors. Consequently, serious establishments will have more fair conditions of competition. It is true that small enterprises using subcontractors will be subject to increased costs if they receive pay demands targeted at them. But it's up to the companies themselves to minimize that risk by making sure to select serious contractors. Experience suggests that there is a greater risk of unprofessionalism at the bottom of long contract chains. Solidarity implies that suppliers are responsible for the obligations of employees to subcontractors down the whole chain. In my view, it is not unreasonable for suppliers who choose to outsource parts of a job, and who thus directly benefit from the job being done, to have such a responsibility. The minority considers that the time limit for the submission of claims to those responsible for joint and several liability is too long. In my view, the deadline provides an appropriate balance in view of the need for workers to have time to turn around, and for example. may await a purely payment delay from the employer and consideration of the need for joint and several liability officers to limit the amount of the claim. The General Public Service Scheme is central to the Government’s work against social dumping. The good functioning of the scheme is therefore essential. I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus on the changes that will lead to a more effective system. Overall, legislative changes mean that publicising as an instrument in the fight against social dumping will now become even more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1616	The Council of State began by saying that the Government wanted good and safe jobs. I totally agree with him. However, in my view, employees might have more unsafe working conditions in small and less serious companies because of the costs involved. I am not afraid that you will receive an increase in the cost of getting the right salary, but in connection with bank guarantees. The proposition states that the consequences of joint and several liability for the serious enterprises are unlikely to be so great. In 2007, the same government said that it would lead too far to impose joint and several liability on the contracting entity. The imposition of joint and several liability would lead to excessive administrative costs and a risk of distortion of competition. My question is: what has changed, and what measures have been taken to reduce the costs for businesses and distortions of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1625	When examining the 2007 case against the liability of the passport, inter alia, it was justified, as the representative refers to, that no joint and several liability was introduced at that time. But it is clear from both the Government's documents at the time and the cancellation from Stortinget that it may be relevant to assess joint and several liability at a later stage. So it was argued why it wasn't relevant that time. What has happened in the meantime is that we have seen – and that is where I agree with the representative Foss in what he said instead – that the measures we have taken reveal that it is a joke to reveal a part of the joke. But at the same time, we've seen that it doesn't sufficiently restrict social dumping. What the rapporteur referred to about the experience just from Oslo, with examples of 431 people who have not been paid their wages in the last year, should be proof enough that we need to do more, in addition to what we have done, that already works.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1632	I do not feel that I received an answer to that question. I was given a reason why they wanted to introduce joint and several liability, but no response to what kind of measures have been taken to reduce costs. In fact, at that time, in 2007, the government said that there were administrative costs. Today, it is said that costs will be a wage increase for those who violate the Solidarity Act. But that's not the case. There will be costs associated with bank guarantees, with the link between the liquidity of these companies. That's when I ask: what's changed in relation to the distortion of competition? What kind of action has the Government taken to enable companies that are serious to survive in further competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1639	An example of this is measures that have already been implemented. It's e.g. the greater seriousness of the renting of labour, to which the representative Lundtägen was involved. There was a deadline for registration on 1 January and the deadline was set on 1 May. There is a way of distinguishing serious landlords of labour from unprofessional landlords of labour. Many things have both arguments against and arguments for. It was discussed in 2007 on solidarity. But then we see that a large number of people, and in particular labour from other countries, experience not getting paid. And when we see that the tools we've put in are not good enough, we put in more tools. What will be most profitable for companies in the future is, of course, to make sure that subcontractors are serious, so that they do not enter a joint and several liability position in relation to their subcontractors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1646	The representation of my post by the Council of State was incorrect in that my point was not to say that it has been exposed to illegal or irregular activity, but that we do not know whether what has increased detection is due to increased control or illegal activity. There is no evidence of this. So the fact that more has been revealed may be related to the fact that more concrete measures have been put in place, with broad support in the UK. So there was a question to the Council of State: doesn't the Council of State see the principle of privatisation of control activities by far? After all, the activities carried out by the Labour Inspectorate shall be entitled to enter enterprises and to check that proper remuneration is paid. But now others in the industry are going to have the right to enter a competitor and check that the right salary is paid. This will be the safest way to ensure that subcontractors fulfil their obligations. In reality, this would only lead to cost increases for the main contractor because one has to insure against the kind of requirements that come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1653	It is possible that it is a disappointment for the representative Foss, but that is what he said now, as I said I agreed, that we have discovered more relationships with the measures taken. But in my view, there are still too many cases. We have not managed to reduce social dumping enough, and that is why we are now adopting a new measure. Then I do not agree with the description of privatisation. There is a common division of responsibilities in Norwegian working life between the three parties that everyone has a responsibility for social work. It applies within the HMS area, in all areas covered by the labour market. I see that it will lead to new obligations for the companies to make sure they have serious subcontractors. But against that, we have to keep the fact that the bill for many today is underpaid or not paid is paid by the individual employee. I think representatives should see that it is a major economic challenge for them not to get their wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1660	I want to go back a little bit to the representative Svendsen had to say about the costs for small businesses. There is no doubt that this with liquidity and putting money into three months could be a cost-effective factor across the industry and in many ways cause small businesses to either collapse or have major problems in being in that market. I think that's a little taken care of. What we fully agree on is that we want a market to work and where it must be serious actors. But it might also have something unintended about it being a relatively large cost driver that lies there in that you have to set aside as much cash as you need, while at the same time many of the smallest companies will collapse because of what will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1667	To the extent that there is an actual cost after the tender has been completed or during the tendering period, there is the cost that refers to the fact that there are workers in the system who have not received their salary, with whom we are now trying to do something. But what I fear most about small businesses in Norway, which I, like the Left and the Representative, am concerned about, is that unprofessional companies are competing seriously. I am surprised at the resistance this proposal has received from the NHO, because I have spoken to many small business drivers who feel as the greatest threat to their future in Norwegian working and business life that they are being challenged by unprofessional actors who underpay their employees and engage in social dumping. It is therefore important to stop social dumping precisely because of the small and the weak enterprises, which are the ones that are being out of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1673	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1676	That we're going to have a decent working life is a central value in Norwegian society. For the Workers' Party, the fight against social dumping is part of building up around that value. We do not accept that foreign workers get lower pay and working conditions than Norwegian workers. The government has come up with a number of instruments against social dumping that we have dealt with in this room in the past and that have been put to work. I'm very happy about that. I'm also glad you're going even further. Introducing joint and several liability for public wages is one of the new instruments. It is a matter which the case-rapporteur has also explained, that workers who are not paid by their own employer should be able to rectify a claim up the contract chain and that the contracting entity is held liable to the subcontractor. This means that you can make sure people get their pay. When the Committee had a hearing on the matter, there was a clear recommendation from, among other things, LO that it is absolutely right to introduce joint and several liability now. Not surprisingly, in the same hearing, the NHO and HSH considered that this was not a good idea. The majority support the recommendations of the LO, while the Progress Party, the Right and the Left support the NHO. It might not be so surprising either. The Workers' Party believes that by introducing joint and several liability, it will support the serious companies and help prevent the unprofessional from being run and competing with those who are decent. In the Question Time on 6 May this year, the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, raised the question of solidarity with the Prime Minister. She argued against introducing it and said that the government instead ‘or should focus on lower taxes, lower taxes and fewer bureaucratic barriers that would have made it possible to survive and chlorinate through these difficult times’. This is not about introducing bureaucracy and making things difficult for those doing serious business. Nor is this about not supporting business for a difficult time. This is about whether we're going to have a decent working life or not. I think Siv Jensen's approach to social dumping that she had in the Questionnaire well illustrates the difference between the majority and the minority in this case. In the opinion of the Committee, the minority also writes that they consider it irresponsible to introduce joint and several liability now because of the financial crisis and the orderly drought. For the Workers' Party, the fight against social dumping is important both in time rises and in times of decline. We will never stop calling about the employee's terms and rights, even if we are in a difficult time. Nor will user-friendly actors help us out of a crisis – on the contrary. I also believe it is wrong to believe that joint and several liability will destroy small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, I believe that the companies that choose to be serious will have their position strengthened precisely by the fact that the unprofessional actors will be less attractive to the contracting entities. I also believe that the contracting entities do not want to select sub-contractors where you risk getting a pay claim from the employees, because if you gamble with it, the chances are quite great that it will actually just go back on yourself. In many debates on social dumping, and also today in the speech by the representative of Skkelstad, it can be imagined that some people believe that the Labour Inspectorate alone is going to take up the fight against the unprofessional actors, that they alone should clean up social dumping. Yes, the Labour Inspectorate is obviously very central to that work, and the Government has also increased the appropriations heavily for supervision during this period, but the Labour Inspectorate will never be able to follow up – and we will never be able to deal with the problems – unless we make laws that set clear limits on what we allow. For the Workers' Party, it has always been important for workers to have good rights, to enjoy security at their place of work and to have a wage to live on. That's why we've always struggled to have a work environment law that protects workers, that the trade union movement should be guaranteed influence, and we don't accept that people are being exploited in their job. I am pleased with the proposals made by the Government, supported by the majority, which will be adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1705	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1708	What can happen to the right-wing parties every time a proposal is made to ensure the pay and working conditions of workers is opposed to it? When we dealt a little over a week ago with the deposit of Entra Eiendom where the government parties asked that the state property company as a builder should ensure that the pay and working conditions of the employees were secured, the right side was opposite. When we are going to deal with public procurement tomorrow and demand that public authorities ensure that tenders are not based on a competition for pay and working conditions, the right parties are opposed. Since we recently saw to it that the transport workers who are forced to change their employer in the course of tendering procedures should take pay and working conditions into the new company, the right parties were opposed. The government parties do not accept any form of social dumping, nor do shipping companies operating in the State-owned oil company StatoilHydro's service on Norwegian continental shelf, throw Norwegian seafarers on land and replace them with underpaid Filipino crews. I would like the joint and several liability to be laid out on the base. It surprises me that the right side argues that the introduction of joint and several liability will lead to cost increases for both buyers and suppliers. In this case, it must mean that pay and working conditions are an important element of competition in today's business. Unfortunately, there are some companies out there that are actually undermining the pay and working conditions of Norwegian workers. And the problem may be bigger than we'll admit, but then we're going to remember that solidarity is actually also a defense for the companies that are serious, and that currently have difficulties in competing with unprofessional companies. Then I think the representative of Kenneth Svendsen should be very careful to refer to the blessings of competition in the road sector. He should probably be strongly updated, especially as far as the situation of Mesta is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1719	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 986]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1736	I would like to make a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in case No. 11?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1739	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1744	The representative Ib Thomsen, from the Chamber, has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party. No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1763	There is also a proposal from the Progress Party. I would like to make a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in case No. 12?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1766	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1771	The representative Ib Thomsen, from the Chamber, has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party. No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1791	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 992]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1808	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 992]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1825	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 993]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1842	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that lines are not allowed after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1849	I'll make it very easy. I just want to mention the proposal of the minority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1854	The representative of Gunn Olsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1857	In the health and care committee, we have the liberating situation that if the opposition is grouped in the committee, it is the opposition that has a majority there, so that it will be reflected in the vote. This means that today’s setting could open up the possibility that Odelstinget could actually make a decision that would put an end to an endless debate on whether pharmacies are part of the healthcare system or one. A note to that effect was written by the majority of the committee in its opinion. Unfortunately, at the moment, the parties of government have a majority in the Chamber. We have heard that the government parties have made their proposal, where they take out the piece to finally state in the Pharmacy Act that pharmacies are part of the healthcare system. I had hoped that the government parties had thought a little about it before coming here today, and would vote in favour of this proposal, so that there would be a connection between what we have said for a year in this room and what is adopted in law. A few other proposals which have a majority in the Committee, but which unfortunately can be all kinds of reason to believe will not have a majority when this evening is over, are proposals for capital letter B and capital letter C. The proposal for capital B concerns, inter alia: that the Stortinget asks the Government to propose the establishment of Internet pharmacy, e-apotheque, during the autumn of 2009. It is important that we also take a leadership position in Norway. This is something that is going to happen, whether Norway wants it or not. It would have been desirable if we could vote in favour of this proposal and make sure that these things had come into place, so that we got a code and a way of doing this that could give Norwegian pharmacies an opportunity to put this system in place, before it is imposed on us through the EEA system. I look forward to the vote and hope that the government parties can support these proposals for decisions and not necessarily vote them down, because it is the opposition that is behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1866	In the present proposition, the Government has proposed some adjustments to the Pharmacy Act. In principle, however, no key policy issues related to pharmaceutical legislation and policy were raised. However, the Committee has dealt with several issues beyond the scope of the proposal, and the Right is pleased to have reached agreement on several points. The new Pharmacy Act has contributed to increased accessibility and service to users. The apothecary represents a very important offer to patients, and has a lot of expertise that can be exploited better. The right supports the minority's proposal that this should also be enshrined in the law. National audit in Document No 3:7 for 2008-2009 shows that there is still a need for measures to stimulate lower prices of medicinal products. This will help to release resources that can be used for better patient treatment at a time when healthcare is facing major priority challenges. On the right, we believe that today's demands for full range at wholesale level should be reviewed, which the entire committee agrees with. However, the full range requirement in pharmacies must be maintained in order to ensure that the patient continues to have good access to the necessary medicinal products. It is also gratifying that the government parties are now supporting our initiative to extend the system of sales of non-prescription medicines outside the pharmacy. This will contribute to better access to these medicinal products for patients, while stimulating price competition. It is also positive that those who previously formulated clear resistance to online pharmacies now realize that this is a natural development of the market. It is important to note that the Committee rejects the proposal of the State Medicines Agency to allow total integration between pharmacies and the manufacturer of medicinal products. This could lead to one actor being able to control the whole chain from production to patient, which would weaken confidence in the provision of independent pharmaceutical information by pharmacists. Such total integration can also reinforce the competitive challenges in the pharmacies market and thus weaken the possibility of reducing medicinal product prices. We ask the Council of State to note this in the further work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1881	The current pharmacy law entered into force on 1 March 2001. The law introduced two fundamental changes: access to the establishment and possession of pharmacies was liberalised and access to the exchange of medically equivalent medicinal products in pharmacies was introduced. In the past, the authorities defined both the number of pharmacies and the location of pharmacies. The current Pharmacy Act does not impose any such restrictions, and the requirement that only pharmacists have access to pharmacies has been removed. Since 2001, the number of pharmacies in Norway has increased from less than 400 to 640 today, and opening hours have increased, and public services have improved. New pharmacies have been established, both in District Norway and in the cities. This increase in the number of pharmacies has occurred at the same time as access to the sale of non-pharmacetic prescription-free medicinal products has been introduced. The scheme for the exchange of medicinal products in pharmacy means that the patient may be supplied with a medicinal product other than that prescribed by the physician, provided that the Agency has assessed the medicinal product to be medically equivalent. The access of pharmacists to exchange is an important prerequisite for the benefit of public health and patients of lower prices of medicinal products — as a result of competition when a medicinal product no longer has market exclusivity. Because the intentions of the Pharmacy Act are fulfilled, the condition for this statutory audit has been that the basic principles of the law should be laid down. This also means that the professional requirements laid down in the legislation should not be remedied. A pharmacy must still appear as a specialist trade and a guarantor of the proper supply of medicinal products. The changes in legislation to be taken into account by Odelstingen today are adaptations and simplifications based on experience over the last eight years. I note that the proposals for legislative changes have received broad support, both in the Health and Care Committee and from the stakeholders concerned. Today's pharmacy market is dominated by three chains of pharmacies, each with its integrated wholesaler. Competition surveillance has proposed that the current full range requirements for pharmaceutical wholesalers be reviewed in order to strengthen competition in the market. In cooperation with the competition authorities, I would like to assess whether the abolition of the full range of requirements could contribute to further meeting the pharmaceutical policy objectives of the Stortinget. This evaluation must take into account whether the full range requirement contributes to ensuring the availability of important medicinal products throughout the country or whether it can be lifted in order to facilitate new distribution solutions. I am aware that the Pharmacy Association has called for pharmacies to be able to undertake more tasks, in the form of new health services. The Directorate for Health has assessed this issue and sent an assessment to the Ministry. I agree with the Health and Care Committee that pharmacies are an important part of the overall health service in Norway, but I do not see that it is right to change the definition of pharmacies in the law to give such signals. The main task of the apothecary, both now and in the future, should be to ensure the proper supply of medicinal products and to contribute to the proper use of medicinal products in the population. These tasks are set out in the provisions of the Pharmacy Act. In order to stimulate the provision of new services by pharmacies, the authorities must assume that this contributes to the optimum exploitation of the pharmacies’ competence and that pharmacies are an appropriate venue for the service in question. In this setting, the Health and Welfare Committee points out that it is time to draw up legislation to allow the establishment of Internet-based pharmacies. What constitutes a practical obstacle to the creation of Internet topotecans are restrictions imposed on the shipment of medicinal products. Today, as a general rule, the shipment of medicinal products is limited to the geographical area of pharmacies. This has been justified by the need for guidance and a desire for local pharmacies in the districts. I agree with the Committee's intention to open up an increased supply of medicinal products. Work is now under way, and during 2009 the Swedish Medicines Agency will propose quality requirements and practical solutions for increased shipment – and assess economic and administrative implications for pharmacies and other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1900	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 994]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1917	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1924	In this house we deal with every week things that are of great importance to people's everyday lives. Many of the issues in which we change the law apply only to Norway, but we also have some international obligations that require us to change the law. That's what we're going to do in this case, about the law on changes in the law on popular protection. The intention of the reimbursement scheme is to increase the freedom of choice as to where you can receive health care — with some limitations. So what this is about is the establishment of a reimbursement system for patients’ health care costs in other EEA countries. There is no major political disagreement in this matter. But the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that this time one goes too short in terms of patients' rights. They believe that hospital treatment should also be part of the scheme, and that there is too much that limits patients’ rights. These batches will certainly account for the sea. We in the Workers' Party believe that with this amendment we are on the right track, and that we fulfil our obligations towards the EEA. The limitations we have made are in line with our desire to control our own public budgets. We have faith that this will give patients more freedom of choice, while they can control their own health care, as one prefers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1940	I would like to thank Mr Olsen – who represented the rapporteur – for a good account. It is positive that Norwegian patients can receive reimbursement for healthcare throughout the EEA territory. This will contribute to greater freedom of choice and to improved treatment provision for individual patients. However, it must be emphasised that the conditions for reimbursement must be designed in such a way as to promote genuine freedom of choice for patients and that the system is not more limited than is necessary. The individual patient’s freedom of choice will be improved by what is proposed in the proposal, but the Progress Party is of the opinion that the Government could go much further than it does in the new reimbursement scheme. The scheme has strong limitations and the Progress Party believes that hospital treatment and other patient groups in the EEA region should have been included in the new reimbursement scheme. Agreements, quality assessments, authorisation and prior commitments on hospital treatment prices would strengthen patients' freedom of choice in a much better way than the Government proposes, and we believe that this should be put in place in the future. Such a scheme would also allow other countries to use Norwegian hospitals for treatment. It is, as we see it, natural that this part of the reimbursement scheme will be refunded by the people's security. Education, competence, medical understanding and surgical exercise are substantially coordinated within the EEA territory, ensuring a qualitatively good treatment for patients. Therefore, as we see it, it would be natural to extend the scheme to both hospital services and other health services. The Progress Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking for new reimbursement schemes, including the use of hospital care and other excluded health services in the EEA area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1956	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1959	I think it is positive that the government has finally presented a proposal for a reimbursement scheme for healthcare in the EEA area. However, this did not happen until the ESA had pointed out Norway’s failure to comply with judicial decisions of the European Court of Justice. This scheme includes health care outside hospitals. The right is, as you know, a party that wants Norwegian EU membership, and we are pleased that Norwegian patients with this proposal get some of the benefits of the European Community. However, we believe that the system should be as comprehensive as possible, as opposed to the government parties, which believe that the scheme should be limited as much as possible. The EU is currently working on a new patient directive, which is also likely to include the right to hospital treatment throughout the EEA territory. This will allow Norwegian patients to choose treatment at the best hospitals in Europe. For patients suffering from cancer, for example, it would be beneficial to have the opportunity to receive publicly funded treatment at the major hospitals in Europe with the highest professional expertise in this area. The right, therefore, asks the Government to ensure that this Directive can be implemented in Norway as soon as it has been finalised in EU bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1968	The EU Parliament decided in February 2006 that healthcare is not covered by the Services Directive. However, the European Court of Justice has ruled that healthcare is part of the internal market. That is why a separate health directive is being worked on. The proposal has been greatly delayed. Pending this, the ESA obliges Norway to put in place a reimbursement mechanism for expenditure on specific health care, so that our citizens can choose freely where to have these services within the EEA territory. Our own department considers that Norway is obliged under EEA law to set up a reimbursement system. The centre party is committed to maintaining the restrictions on the free movement of services required in each case in order to respect the basic principles on which our welfare services are based. We are satisfied with the assurances we have received that it is a narrower interpretation of the term ‘non-hospital services’ that is used in the regulations that are now to be made. We believe that there must be a strong argument for this on the basis of the assurances given to the Stortinget in the past that the EC Treaty and the EEA Agreement do not restrict the competence of the Member States to organise their health services and design legislation related thereto. The centre party is strongly concerned that the system currently being established should not undermine the system we currently have for public relations for those service providers who can provide health care with reimbursement from public security. We believe that similar requirements must also be imposed on providers in other countries. We are afraid that Norwegian health professionals who are dissatisfied with our system will establish branches in other countries if they thereby receive reimbursement, and that we can be notified to ESA for illegal discrimination next time. This case has both positive and challenging sides. I have chosen to problem some of what the Center Party sees as challenging, as this can be the first of a number of issues about patient mobility. It is important for us to have national governance with our health care system. For other countries, with lower price levels and purchasing power, the consequences of excessive liberalisation may be greater. This is probably also the reason why the resistance within the EU has been so great against making health a common commodity. There is little doubt that it is the rich from the rich countries who are becoming the winners of market forces that will be freer than today. Finally, I am pleased that the majority in the Committee so strongly emphasises the different aspects of this matter, so that you do not jump over the challenges that are also in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1981	I want to join the position that Gunn Olsen came with on behalf of what is the minority in the committee, but which is the majority in the Chamber. When I asked for the floor, it was really to make a comment to Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Sonja Irene Sjøli. I record that the two representatives are talking about the organisation of the specialist health service as if it were a market where an increased offer can provide better quality for the population. I'm not sure I'm right. In other contexts, we have seen the representative Fredriksen with a strong commitment to the local hospital in South Varanger, the Church Hospital, and Sonja Irene Sjøli, with a commendable commitment to the structure of the specialist health services in Akershus and to the discussion about the size of different units, and how they should be. By extension, I am surprised that the two representatives see no reason for concern if, without regulation mechanisms, Europe as a whole would become a type of health market where these services can be used without greater restrictions. It cannot be expected that the population throughout Europe will be able to be more or less informed as if a buyer were buying goods in a store in terms of as complex services as health. Therefore, the overall objective of the Norwegian health authorities will continue to be to provide quality services, to centralise the services that are sensible to centralise and to have a locally anchored offer where centralisation is neither necessary nor contributes to increased quality. If you're going to get it, you have to have predictability. It is then necessary to know how many people will benefit from this type of service and ensure that there are no large leakages out of Norway, which will also incur significant additional costs in terms of travel costs for Norwegian authorities. Therefore, the resistance to going as liberally to work as the Progress Party and the Right here argue, is well-founded in relation to the preservation of structures, for which the Progress Party and the Right in other contexts also argue – but which are undermined by the two same parties by their desire for it to function as a market in free competition between the different entities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e1992	The aim of the legislative proposal we are examining now is to provide the basis for the establishment of a new reimbursement scheme for health care expenditure in other EEA countries. The scheme will give patients greater freedom of choice as to where they will receive health care. However, the scheme will not cover types of health care other than those provided at the public expense in Norway. As a general rule, the same conditions will also apply. Detailed rules on the scheme will be laid down in the regulation. The basis for the proposal is a number of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the EFTA Court of Justice on the understanding of the rules governing the free movement of services. As far as healthcare is concerned, they have concluded that patients will have the right to receive reimbursement for healthcare in other EEA countries — in specific situations. As mentioned in the proposal, the EU institutions have a proposal for a Directive on patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare. The goal is, among others: to regulate the practice of the European Court of Justice as regards the right to reimbursement of healthcare abroad. The ESA considers that it is not acceptable to postpone the introduction of a Norwegian non-hospital reimbursement scheme until the proposed directive has been finalised – this is because the right to reimbursement for so-called non-hospital treatment appears clear, based on case law, and Norway does not have such a system. The reimbursement scheme shall mainly cover health care received outside hospitals, but more detailed demarcation must be laid down in regulations and by practice. In establishing rules for the Norwegian reimbursement system, we will look at developments in the directive process. In particular, it is important to monitor how to draw the distinction between hospital treatment and non-hospital treatment. It is gratifying that the Health and Welfare Committee supports the proposal which provides the basis for the establishment of this reimbursement scheme, which also regulates the distribution of expenditure. I think it is a good solution that reimbursement expenses are charged to the level of administration that has responsibility for the service in question. This will be an incentive to provide the best possible services in Norway. There is no reason to believe that very many will take this opportunity to receive treatment abroad. However, if this should happen, it may be appropriate to consider other funding solutions – as mentioned in the proposal. Let me just briefly comment on the suggestion that at this point you should have gone a lot further and have also included a hospital. I respect, of course, that someone means it, but my sincere belief is that it would have been very strange if Norway did it now. The whole of Europe is now discussing how this patient directive should look, and it is a process that we are also trying to influence as well as possible, as a non-member. For example, it is quite natural that when I meet my Swedish colleague and my Danish colleague, I take up Norwegian interests, and we also have extensive contact with our delegation in Brussels to influence the work of the Patient Directive as well as Norwegian interests. The fact that, in this situation, we were going to lay down the rules in Norway all of a sudden seems to me to be a strange position. I believe, on the contrary, that it is now important that we take part in the debate in Europe, with the position we hold as a non-member, affect the debate as far as it is possible from Norwegian interests. We must then, of course, deal with that directive once it has been adopted and quickly ensure that it is implemented in Norwegian law. But that we should do it now, as the only country in Europe, in front of the directive process in Europe, I really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2005	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2009	It might be a little funny to hear how someone wants to misunderstand others. The Progress Party has made it quite clear that we want this implemented once in the future. In fact, we are asking for an investigation, not a decision, of this today. There's a significant difference. At the same time, we know – and we say that too – that education, competence, medical understanding and surgical practice are substantially coordinated in the EEA area. This will ensure qualitatively good treatment for patients. That's why we want to get an investigation into this in the future. When you talk about the EEA area related to health, it has a lot of sides. If you were to be so afraid of health cooperation in a border municipality – which I come from – I would say that we already have cross-border cooperation with Finland, which is an EEA country. Very many Finnish women come to the Church Hospital to give birth and perform surgical procedures. This is a collaboration that works very well, and when you know that a health service actually works well and is for the benefit of the patient, it is not so hard to recommend it as the representative of Ballo fears.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2016	Based on what the representative Fredriksen now said, I perceive that there are two typographical errors in the proposals. In proposal No 1 From the front and right, it says, ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the EU patient directive is implemented in Norwegian law as soon as possible, so that patients in Norway can also have the opportunity to use hospital services throughout the EU.’ As far as I understood about Fredriksen now, «as quickly as possible» is meant to be «one time in a distant future». And likewise in the case of proposal No. 2, ‘The government asks for new reimbursement arrangements, etc.’, I understand from the representative Fredriksen that it should have been added to ‘one time in the distant future’, but that it has fallen out. Then I can see that it was not as serious as it was originally stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2030	Some obviously read suggestions that a certain man reads the Bible. I would like to draw the attention of the representative, Olav Gunnar Ballo, to the top of page 4, first column. It says: ‘These members therefore believe that it is appropriate to facilitate the extension of the reimbursement mechanism in the future’. That's exactly what Fredriksen says; it'll take time to figure out new reimbursement arrangements. This is a case of law, I would like to remind the representative of Ballo. There are two request decisions to the Government that form the basis here, i.e. that it is the government that had to do the work, if this would have been given a majority here today. I think the representative of Ballo should read this more carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2042	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Footing, see page 997]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2059	I will not spend that very long time, just attach a few small comments to the matter itself. This is a case that shows that it is possible to achieve something when you work well in the committee. This is a case that shows that a lot of people can be solved when they have good communication, both within the committee, in the Stortinget, and not least towards the department, so that they can find a solution that all parties agree on. The starting point for this matter was a relatively large debate that was developing into a question as to whether this proposal could even be non-legislative. There was a debate about what had to do with the duty of explanation, and not the right of explanation. In previous cases, among others: in the context of the Melandics Committee, the right of explanation and the removal of professional secrecy have been worked on. The Committee has come up with a very good solution, a solution which now concludes that, without prejudice to professional secrecy, the individual can provide the selection with the information necessary for the work of the sample, i.e.: the obligation to explain has lapsed and the right of explanation has been exercised. It's very important and very good. This is also the reason why the issue of non-constitutionalism has fallen away, because the individual can no longer be required to speak about the past against his will. I'd like to congratulate the whole committee. I would like to point out from the committee that very good work has been done, and we are very pleased that we have now reached this solution. It is a good solution for professional secrecy, for healthcare professionals to have the right of explanation, and not the obligation to explain. This is proof that it's possible to get things done if you have good communication and work together in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2072	This case is based on several deeply tragic cases, where people have been killed or seriously injured by people with mental disorders. This primarily affects those who are being attacked and their closest. At the same time, it creates insecurity in society. These cases also affect many mentally ill indirectly through increased fear and extra-judicial stigmatisation. But we still have to take these matters seriously, and do what we can to prevent this from happening again. As I see it, it is particularly important to examine whether we can strengthen mental health protection in a way that helps prevent such tragic events. At the same time, eagerness to act must not lead to an infringement of the law against individuals, which would be the consequence of the original government bill. It is positive that the Government should set up a review committee, but this may not have unlimited powers. In this case, however, the government parties have done full right, and that is good. However, it would have been better if the matter had been properly assessed initially. On the right, we believe it is very critical that the Government has waived the general obligation to investigate a matter that concerns important issues of principle relating to privacy and legal certainty. The right-wing party believes, like several important hearing bodies, that the government's original legislative proposal went too far in imposing an obligation on individuals and public employees to explain the sample. In the right, it would have been particularly problematic to oblige individuals to explain themselves to the sample on private matters about themselves and their closest. This could be seen as a form of declaration that cannot be accepted. In a free and democratic society, we must have the right to protect private and sensitive information about ourselves and our loved ones. Public authorities may not have unlimited powers to obtain information about us. I suppose there is an understanding of this in the government parties now that they themselves have reacted to what they think could be illegal surveillance. From the Right, we therefore think it is gratifying that the government parties at Stortinget now support our view that individuals cannot be required to explain their private and confidential relationship to the sample to investigate these matters. However, there is reason to believe that more people want to help clarify the issues in question. With the proposal now being put forward by the Committee, they will have the opportunity, but not the obligation, to provide such an explanation. It is also of fundamental value that patients can communicate information to healthcare in confidentiality and trust that this is not passed on. That's why we need good reasons to set aside the obligation of professional secrecy. From the Right, we see that it may be necessary for the sample to have access to some information related to confidentiality. However, it is important to limit the information provided to what is relevant to the work of the sample. It is also important to stress that health professionals, on the basis of the Committee’s proposals, are entitled but not obliged to explain themselves. In our view, the changes made to the legislative proposal during committee reading will contribute to greater confidence in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2089	The left would not have been able to support the original bill, where Section 2 contained an explanation obligation for anyone who would find the selection interesting for their work. Left says the original bill meant a major violation of legal certainty, and not least it was a threat to privacy. The changes that one has made in Section 2 so that one can now give the selection information without hindrance to the obligations of the parties are, as we can see, both one says for legal certainty, and one says for privacy. It is not often, unfortunately, that privacy can be pointed out as the lord in a matter that is being dealt with in this room. So my post is especially the coin that left finds reason to mark this happy event.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2100	I very much agree with the chairman's presentation of this matter. I think the committee together has worked very well. There has been good dialogue with the Ministry, and consultation bodies have been taken into account, in particular the Data Protection and Medical Association, but also a number of others. I do not think there is any reason to criticise the Ministry of Health and Welfare in that way when that process causes us to land on a result that all parties may agree on. I remember a lot of previous cases under minority governments where the Storing through processes has made changes without there being any reason to think of it as negative, because at the moment you do it, you could risk it being linked to this kind of thing. I feel that it has not done so. That is why I really want to commend both the Ministry for its willingness to enter the counter-representations and the Committee for finding a solution together. Now Dag Ole Tegen is not present here in the hall, but I also want to praise him concretely that the willingness to listen to the various arguments has been as good as it has been. This, I think, has been the Storting at its best, also in cooperation with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2111	Let me first say that I do not quite manage to use this opportunity to celebrate privacy. It's important enough, but I think maybe the framework around the matter we're now discussing is too serious to bring it up as the big thing. Unfortunately, there have been several cases in recent years in which people with mental illness have taken their lives, and where it has been known that these persons have been followed in advance from both mental health protection and community services. A central question is whether these tragedies could have been avoided if the perpetrators had been better followed up by the auxiliaries. Another important question is whether or how the various relevant bodies and services have established systems to learn from such events with effect on future practice. The Committee set up by the Government shall address these issues and propose measures. The purpose of the appointment is to achieve learning in the field – let me just use a few other words to describe what I mean. I have had quite close contact with the mental health protection in Oslo in various contexts the year I have been Minister of Health and Care. I am absolutely sure that the psychological health protection in Oslo has learned a lot from what happened in connection with the tragic carnage killing. I notice, when I'm in contact with people in both the municipal and specialist health services, that there's been learning in Oslo. But the question I ask myself is, Did you learn in Bodø some of what happened in Oslo? And do you now have a situation where you learn in Ålesund, some of what happened in Tromsø? So, have we managed to get our health care system to become a learning organization, in addition to the fact that those who put in the nearest tragic events, and who felt it very strongly within themselves, have learned? It is very important for me to stress that the purpose of this selection is not to hunt for scapegoats. I think I'm going to say it so that the least we owe the victims and their families is that we as the health service can say that we did everything we could to try to prevent that from happening. Therefore, I want this sample not only to be concerned with what happened in the current situation, and with cooperation, for example. between the local hospital department and the municipal services, but also how the supervisory reports, for example: were followed up by the regional health establishments. The selection shall be equally critical of the ministry’s efforts to address impacts as they do of the local impact. It is important for me to stress that this is the starting point for the work we are about to do. I am of the opinion that the legislative proposal we are dealing with here today is absolutely necessary to ensure that the sample is carried out quickly, and that we are informed of what I think are important issues. This is also why a very rapid legislative process has been necessary. Of course, I agree with the representative, Sjöli, that this has gone very fast, but the problem has been that if we had not managed to do it at this pace, the sample would not have been working properly until maybe around New Year, and then we would have got a new increase – with all that it would have caused by problems. So I'm very grateful that the committee has been willing to deal with this, because I think it's important that we now keep the moment we have in this matter. I believe it is right to make the changes to Section 2 of the bill. Once we've worked more closely on this, including in the ministry, on the basis of questions raised by the committee, we see that this is a correct change. Of course, it is that I am happy to receive the decision we are now making. Many people have said that this has been done before, in the form that we have reports from the State Health Authority, we have reports from the police, and we have partial reports. Yes, we have interim reports, but what has been the intention of appointing this sample has been to look at the multi-disciplinary and cross-sectoral whole of the case. It does not have current supervisory bodies, such as: State Health Authority, the possibility. There has also been criticism of the fact that the bill is a breach of the obligation of professional secrecy. I point out that there are very few people who will have access to person-sensitive information. It will be the sample, consisting of ten members, and to some extent persons assisting the sample in their work. It must also be stressed that it is a temporary law, which, after the sample has finished its work, is essentially losing its practical function. The selection is also subject to the same strict professional secrecy as the one explaining the sample. In conclusion, therefore, I just want to say that there is a very important work the sample is set to do. Today's Odelsting's decision ensures that the sample can carry out its work in a satisfactory and sound manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2137	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2154	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2171	The Presidency shall promote in the nomination proposals for some amendments to the WBS Act. As you know, last week the Johnsen Committee presented a proposal for a new pension scheme to the depositors and some other groups. The work on setting up a new pension law for the representatives has been a priority task for the Presidency, and it is important, in my view, that the further follow-up to the proposal can start quickly. Since we're now at the very end of the landfill session, this is going to be a problem for the next big one. However, the Presidency wants to prepare the basis for an important starting point: that a new pension scheme should be applicable to newly elected representatives, with effect from 1 October of this year, as intended at all times. In order to give a clear signal about this to new representatives, the Presidency proposes that this starting point be explicitly laid down in the applicable Grand Duchy Pensions Act § 12. It is also assumed in the Johnsen Committee's position that the same shall apply to the members of the Government. The other changes proposed in the suspension are related to the control and follow-up of the current gross retirement pension law. As you know, the task of managing the pension scheme for the representatives was essentially transferred to the State pension fund earlier this year. First, the Presidency proposes a basis of the WBS Act to obtain information on the income ratios of members in the event of the payment of a defined income pension, in line with the Pension Fund otherwise available. It is also proposed that the provisions of the Pension Fund Act on the recovery of overpaid pensions be applied mutatis mutandis to the Storingspensionsgesetz. This will provide a better basis for search back than what we have today. The changes shall enter into force immediately and will facilitate the control of pension payments in the period up to the entry into force of a new pension scheme for the representatives. This recommends the unanimity of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2190	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 20. [[Footing, see page 999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2207	This setting has no cures in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. - It's a note. For the information of the representatives, the President will take note of the Innst. O. No 135 not found in final printed version.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2216	The debate on the political content of this issue will be held during the debate on social security for 2009, which will take place on Thursday. I believe that the representative of the Progress Party needs to promote his proposal, but we will therefore take the debate on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2223	I agree with what the rapporteur has said in the matter, but will then address the proposal that the Advance Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2228	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1 on the supplementary agenda. Berit Brørby resumed his office here. [[Footing, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2242	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-20 and the matter on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2249	During the debate, Dagrun Eriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a cultural pool to distribute among the study associations in order to stimulate training-related actions in the cultural field not covered by current schemes.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2693	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e2702	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4106	It is vouched for the law's change of law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4115	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4122	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4476	First sentence of Section 4-21, first paragraph, and new § 6-7a. Here the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4489	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4498	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4507	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4514	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a comprehensive financing plan for crisis centres.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4653	The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4664	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e4677	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e5781	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Votation: The title of the law and the law as a whole were unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e5789	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6343	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6352	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6359	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6570	Only I, II, IV and V will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6579	There is then an alternative between the Committee's setting up of Section III of Section 10-2 No. 1st sentence and proposal No 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6599	There is then an alternative between the Committee's setting up of Section III of Section 10-4. 1 and proposal No. 2, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6622	It is then voted on the Committee's recommendation to III, § 10-4 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6635	It goes over the rest of the III.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6645	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e6654	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9301	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9310	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9317	In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4 and 5, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 6, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 7 and 8, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Progressive Party, 9 and 10, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 11-13, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 14-17, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9519	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9586	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10 from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9713	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9766	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from Right, Christian People's Party, Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: § 18-6 new sixth paragraph: The acquisition value of operating assets used for the production of renewable energy may be written off in addition to § 14-43 and § 18-6 first to fifth subparagraphs by up to 7.5 per cent of the base annually in the first four years of income after the acquisition of the operating resource. [[tax laws]] [[6]] The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for its completion and implementation, including the operational means covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9790	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 6 June 1975 No. 29 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9817	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9841	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e9869	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Law No. 107 of 14 December 2007 is amended as follows: X Transitional Rules: the 10th paragraph is deleted;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10324	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10333	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10341	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10632	First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Group of the European People's Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10649	It is then votered over the setting to new § 13 under I. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10662	It is then added to the other paragraphs of I and II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10671	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10680	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e10687	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the definition of refugee by the Foreign Affairs Act complies with the refugee concept of the Refugee Convention.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11164	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11173	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11180	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to wind up the scheme of supplementary social benefits for persons with short residence in Norway.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11226	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11237	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11250	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11283	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11292	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11345	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11356	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11366	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11478	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11487	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11494	During the debate, Mr Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e11984	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to A I, Section 1-3, first paragraph, point (a) and the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12007	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12016	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12025	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12032	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12159	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12168	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12278	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12287	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12324	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12333	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12383	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12393	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12401	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending Law No 28 February 1997 19 on Population Security [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12468	An alternative is to vote between the proposal of the Progress Party and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15-lower.ana.ud814e12545	Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will remember that the last Odelstinget in this period and in history will be on Friday coming. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
