ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e48	Dear co-representatives. Former central bank representative Ole Gabriel Ueland died on 5 April 2009. Ueland was born on 31 January 1931 in Varhaug. He was number three in a sibling's team of eight. Ueland graduated as a civil agronomist at Norway's high school of agriculture at Ås and worked there as a research assistant after completing his studies. In 1959 he traveled to the Sun, where he started work as a master sagronomist. The following year, he was employed in Rogaland Agricultural Company, first as 1st County-Sagronomas assistant and then as a county-sagronom. Ueland became involved in central party policy. He was a member of the local government of Sola from 1967 to 1977, the chairmanship from 1972 to 1977, and he was rapporteur from 1972 to 1975. He was also a member of the county from 1972 to 1975. He has had a number of public duties, including: as chairman of the Sola General Plan Committee 1972-1977, a member of a number of municipal and intercommunal topics, a member of a sample of type drawings in hydrotechnics at NTH 1975-1981, and a member of the Human Rights Committee 1981-1985. Ueland was the largest representative from 1977 to 1993. He was a member of the Judicial Committee 1977-1981, Vice-Chairman of the Municipal and Environmental Committee 1981-1983, the Financial Committee 1983-1988, and head of the Energy and Industry Committee 1988-1993. He was a member of the Government's Delegation to the Nordic Councils 1983-1988 and 1989-1991 and a member of the Government's Delegation to the IPU 1989-1993. At the time Ueland was a poaching representative, he was a member of the group board from 1977 to 1993 and vice-chairman of the group board from 1984 to 1989. He was the director of the Center Party's program committee in 1980-1981. From the very beginning he marked himself as a capable national politician with commitment and pervasiveness. He had his own ability to meet people, he was disarming, jovial, trusting and equivalent. Ured and gladdened as he was, he also took a controversial position. In the current case of environmental policy and gas power, he also encountered opposition in his own party, but achieved what he wanted: a debate on important principles without preconceived positions. Ueland was a liberal man both political and human with the sense of humor and good lines. He also gained great respect among political opponents. He was used a lot when important decisions were at stake for the party, among other things. when the party negotiated government participation in 1983. We are grateful for the considerable social effort that Ole Gabriel Ueland has made, and we are at peace with his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e69	The representative of Trond Helleland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the meeting of the alternate of the counties of Møre and Romsdal, Jenny Klinge, to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge under the permission of the representative Eli Sollied Överaas from 18 May to 20 May due to disease from the meeting of the alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Børge Brende's leave, on 18 and 19 May, for reasons of care, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, and other alternates of the South Trondelag counties, Michael Momyr, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e105	Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland and Michael Momyr are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e111	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings in Stortinget. The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e118	On behalf of Dagfinn Højbrätten and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative that the State will ensure that StatoilHydro withdraws from oil sand activities in Canada. I request that this proposal be dealt with in accordance with Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 28 d, so that this can be dealt with in today’s meeting after the ordinary map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e125	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will come back to this in a moment. For the purposes of this discussion, there are the items on agenda No. 85. Based on the request made by Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, the President proposes that the Stortinget take a decision on the procedure for the proposal, and that we therefore first take case No. 5 on the agenda, Unit, concerning this proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e146	Based on what the representative, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, said, inviting the Stortinget to decide on how to vote at the general meeting held tomorrow, it is natural that the Stortinget should decide on this before voting is to be held at the general meeting. The President will therefore propose that this proposal, pursuant to paragraph 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure, be put to the vote without delay if the President or one-fifth of the representatives present do not object. The President therefore proposes that the proposal for a representative be considered after the matter has been dealt with in the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e151	On behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, I propose that the matter be sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e156	Two procedural proposals are now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e159	I would briefly like to explain why I support the President's procedural proposal. Together with the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, I have made a proposal for consideration in accordance with Section 28(d) of the Stortinget Rules of Procedure, and it is related to the StatoilHydro General Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday 19 May. To the general meeting tomorrow, a shareholder proposal was announced that StatoilHydro should withdraw from oil sand operations in Canada. Several heavy shareholders such as Folksam, Danske Bank, Storebrand Capital Management and the Seventh AP Fund have announced their support for the proposal. The justification is for climate and corporate social responsibility. Norway's Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, recently stated at the SV National Meeting: ‘It is not acceptable for an almost state-owned company to see its future in oil sands in Canada.’ In today's Business last Thursday, the Minister for the Environment commented on the shareholder's proposal: ‘I like it very much about the more actors who take such into account, the faster we get a green business.’ [[...]] When a government council responsible for environmental protection so clearly indicates that StatoilHydro's oil sanding exposure is unacceptable, I see no more logical and natural consequence of it than that the state is using its influence in StatoilHydro's organs to implement this policy. Against this background, I would ask that the proposed representative should be discussed at today's meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e182	The President would stress that this is the procedure for the proposal under discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e185	On behalf of the Left Group, I would like to say that we support the President's proposal for a procedure. If we don't want to use this section in these contexts, it's going to look like pretty meaningless from our point of view. It is also quite special that you want active ownership – at least some parties talk a lot about active ownership – but want to deal with matters after the general meetings have been held.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e192	I will not comment on the content of the matter itself. We have to get back to that. But the right agrees with the president's proposal to deal with the matter today. There has been a strong wish from Stortinget to have the opportunity to debate topical issues in Stortinget, and then we think this is a good opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e205	We are then going to vote on the procedure for the proposed representative from Dagfinn Høybräten and Line Henriette Holten Hämdal. The President has proposed that the proposal be examined under Section 28(d), i.e. that it be treated as the last case at today's meeting, while Inge Ryan has proposed that it be sent to the Committee. The President assumes that there is the Energy and Environment Committee in Inge Ryan’s mind – it’s nodded. The proposal by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party is that the proposed representative should be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e219	The proposal has thus been adopted by the Committee on Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e231	Child protection shall help vulnerable children before problems become too large. It is important to get in as early as possible and provide good quality help. The increase in child protection requests may indicate that we are on our way to this goal. Greater vigilance around the child’s situation today leads to more child protection messages from school, kindergarten, health centre, doctor and police. There are also several parents and family members who themselves are asking for child protection today. The threshold for contacting child protection has been lowered. But there may also be other reasons for growth in the number of issues related to child protection. Although several people contact me, I still have groups of children who worry about me. These are the quiet kids that we rarely see and hear about. There may be children of drug users and mentally ill, children exposed to sexual abuse and children living with violent parents. We all need to focus our attention on the needs of these children. It has not been many years since the media debate on the protection of children was about the illegal entry of child protection into families and ‘took the children’. Today the discussion is about children and families getting too little help from child protection, or getting help too late. There are many good and dedicated professionals working in both local and state child protection. These are people who often have to deal with some of the most difficult conflicts in our society. They will talk to children, young people and families with great challenges and in a deep crisis. Childcare employees often face criticism. They really deserve recognition for their social efforts. That is why I am pleased that child protection has increased confidence in the population in recent years. Prior to the reform of child protection, there were wide variations in the level of assistance to children and young people in different parts of the country. On 1 January 2004, the responsibility of the county council in the field of child protection was transferred to the State. Former Minister for Children and Family Laila Davay headed this reform. One of the reasons for this was that the quality of child protection services at county level was very variable. The control of institutions was inadequate, and cooperation with and assistance to municipalities was far too poor. In addition, expenditure growth was high in county child protection. The children’s, youth and family budgets were set up to coordinate and strengthen the various offers. Through the reform, the agency was given responsibility for assisting the child protection service in the municipalities with the placement of children away from home, responsibility for the recruitment and distribution of foster homes, responsibility for the establishment and operation of child protection institutions and responsibility for family protection. At the same time as the reform was a centralisation of tasks, it was important to develop more cooperation with municipalities. Over 80 pst. Of the 42 600 children receiving child protection, municipal child protection is provided in the local environment. The reform has therefore helped to increase the technical assistance given to municipalities by the national child protection system. The employees of the State Child Protection Service have been through a demanding conversion process and have achieved good results in the last five years. An important objective of the child protection reform was to ensure equivalent offers across the country. The regional differences in the use of national child protection services have decreased for each year from 2005 to 2008. In 2005, the number of children and young people receiving help from the State Children’s Protection Agency was highest in the west region at 4.5 children per year. 1 000 children and lowest in the region of Central Norway with 2.3 children per year One thousand children, that's a difference of 2.2 children. The auxiliary level in Central Norway was therefore half the level in the West. In 2008, the difference between the highest and lowest levels in the regions was reduced to 1.4 children per year. 1000 children. Region west was still highest and has increased to 4.7 children per year. 1 000 children, while region south is lowest with 3.3 children per. 1000 children. This means that more children have been helped in all regions, and that we are approaching the goal of an equivalent offer across the country. For children to get the best possible offer, we use foster homes more and provide more help at home. From 2005 to 2008 it is more than 9 pst. fewer children in institution, 28 pst. multiple children in foster homes, and 13 pst. several receive domestic relief measures. There are still regional differences with regard to the actions put in place. The shift towards more equivalent child protection continues in line with Storting’s objectives. One of those who have participated in the major conversion work is Rita Nilsen-Nygaard in Bodø. She has been working at an institution for many years and is now working at home for state child protection. She told VG on Friday that parents and children are doing the most amazing thing when the family receives systematic help in dealing with behavioral problems. She recommends that young people and their families be given the opportunity to test the new child protection measures before assessing institutions. In order for children and young people who have previously been placed in an institution to receive a good offer in foster homes, we have developed a state-owned home with special competence to care for children and young people with special needs. In order to prevent unnecessary movements and breaks, these homes receive close follow-up and guidance. Those who organise foster homes have been concerned that we should set up a separate pension scheme and improve social rights for foster parents. The government will present an odelstningsproposition on a separate pension scheme for the state family homes and shelters. Municipal foster homes have also received a better offer than before. The new training and recruitment programme has been evaluated and revised. The main conclusion is that this is a good offer. Cooperation with the Norwegian Foster Home Association has been absolutely necessary to improve these training programmes. Nursing parents do a very important job in Norwegian child protection and often stand up for the interests of children. Recruitment of foster homes is a priority task. Recruiting foster homes for larger children, young people, siblings, Sami children and children with a minority background remains a challenge. In March 2009, a recruitment campaign was launched that has led to many requests from people interested in being foster parents. Most child protection has taken care of, lives in foster homes, but some children benefit most from a good institutional offer. We have many good child protection institutions in Norway, and they have become even better in recent years. Private institutions are a necessary part of our institutional services. Half of the children in institutions are run by private, both non-profit and commercial. HSH, the main organisation of the trade and service industries, which represents many of the private child protection institutions, is particularly concerned that private individuals contribute to greater variation in the provision of institutions. I agree with them. The head of the Brusetkollen has given me many good arguments for this in a meeting we recently had about youth with drug problems. We need to have variations in the offer, so that children can get an offer that is best suited to their needs. From 2009 onwards, the ETA will purchase more places from NPISHs than before. Young people have different challenges and therefore need different institutional services. The greatest possible variation in the provision of institutions may sometimes conflict with the principle of subsidiarity. We can't have all kinds of institutions in every community. For some children it is better to move to get the best possible professional offer, for others contact with the community is the most important thing. This is not least true of children from Northern Norway, who were sent mainly to institutions in the East before the reform. We also know that the number of movements out of the West region has fallen in recent years. We are dedicated to identifying the needs of the individual child before we decide where to live. It may reduce the number of mispositions. The budget is required to use the capacity of the national child protection system as far as possible to ensure good use of resources. When private placements are to be purchased, the Storting decided that the Government should give priority to purchases from NPISHs rather than commercial private operators. In addition, we have doubled the term of the contract for private individuals to provide stability and predictability for those who operate. This government has gone further in cooperation with NPISHs than previous governments. For the best interests of the child, we will, as far as possible, try to avoid one child being moved from one institution to another because the institution is not allowed to extend its four-year contract. In most such cases, the place for each young person will continue to be purchased by the establishment. For children, it is important that they know that biological parents are also taken care of after child protection has taken care of the child. A supervisor has therefore been developed to help provide better assistance and follow-up to parents after taking care of them. The best thing for the kids is that they get early help. Early help also provides lower costs. Therefore, good professional governance and economic governance are closely linked. When the previous government launched the child protection reform, the aim was to control expenditure growth. The Riksrevision concluded in 2007 that: ‘Where additional appropriations are still needed in 2007, this is related to the fact that budgetary imbalances resulting from the start-up have not been sufficiently corrected.’ The previous government underestimated the costs associated with the reform. In the current period, therefore, the budget has increased by DKK 1.4 billion, an increase of 42 pst. At the same time, it is important that we use resources efficiently and for the benefit of children. Expenditure growth has been reduced after the reform. Growth shall be further reduced without compromising the provision of children. We also aim to contribute actively to the professional development of the provision of services in the field of child protection. We need to know more about which measures are most helpful to different children. Measures offered from State and municipal child protection should therefore be knowledge-based. If this is for the best, we will help children, young people and families where they are, without having to move the children out of their own community. This is good preventive work. Children and young people with behavioural disorders have received a better offer than before. Its regions have developed a wide range of home and community-based interventions, with their own institutional model and a treatment home model in progress. Two of its research-based support measures aimed at children and young people with serious behavioural problems — abbreviated to PMTO and MST — have led to better treatment of young people with behavioural problems. 80 pst. in the case of young people who have gone through the entire aid measure called MST, there has been no need for new measures from the protection of children. Furthermore, a preliminary summary of the results of the institution’s treatment suggests good results. Young people who are in a rush will receive better offers than they have now, and they will need to receive help from more services. For the past six months, we have, among other things, have become aware of several serious incidents in the Bergen area. Bufdir’s monitoring of child protection measures related to drug use and the treatment of young addicts shows that there is a need to strengthen this work in a number of areas. Preparedness and routines are now actively employed to prevent and manage drug use in institutions. We've also asked the country's statesmen to pay more attention to drug problems in the child protection institutions. The quality development of child protection institutions is systematically and targeted. We know, for example. that children in an institution have experienced sexual abuse from other children. This shall not happen. Guidelines have been established for the prevention and management of sexual abuse in institutions and foster homes. The guidelines are in place and staff have received training. More use of coercion in institutions and greater restrictions on the freedom of residents are regularly called for. There is little evidence that long-term and extensive use of coercive measures contributes to the reduction of problem behaviour. On the contrary, research shows the opposite. There is also reason to recall that the focus on the rights of child-restraint children has a historical background. We know that many children in child protection in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s received very poor treatment. The starting point is that the use of coercion is not permitted, except in certain cases. The use of coercion must be based on an individual and concrete assessment of the individual youth. For this reason, the department maintains regular training in the rating regulations. It may seem that the different states consider the law to be somewhat different. We will therefore contribute to a more consistent practice. We will also review this rating code, and on the basis of experience from those who work on this for the day, we will send out a circular with clarifications and clarifications. We need to ensure good quality in all aspects of child protection. The Children's Protection Act imposes requirements on institutions – both for method, manning and material aspects. Private and municipal institutions must be approved by the establishment in order to be used. In addition, they shall have internal controls to ensure that they carry out their duties in accordance with the law. The same internal control obligation applies to the municipality and to the state regional authority. Supervision shall contribute to ensuring the quality of child protection. Municipalities are responsible for the supervision of children in foster homes. The proportion of children who have received the supervisor has increased and now accounts for 89 pst. of the children. This is an increase from 77 pst. in 2002. This could be even better. The county council supervises the child-restraint institutions. In 2008, the vast majority of the counties carried out more than 90 pst. of the oversight visits imposed. Discussions with children living in institutions are an increasingly important part of this surveillance. The supervision of institutions also includes the supervision of furniture approved as part of the institution. I have proposed to Stortinget that the overall professional supervision be added to the State Health Authority. The aim of this is to create a greater distance between the Ministry and supervision – we will establish a more independent supervision of Norwegian child protection. Moreover, better coordination of supervision by the State could strengthen the methods and quality of supervision. The National Association for Children’s Protection has been particularly concerned with the protection of minors. We are now strengthening the law to provide child protection measures for them between 18 and 23 years of age. There is a proposal in the Stortinget on this. But we also know that someone says no to post-protection. The National Children’s Association believes that the municipalities must contact those young people who have turned down child protection after one year of age – when they are 19 years old – so that they can have the chance to change their mind. We have included this in the proposal for a new law. As most child protection takes place in municipalities, it is an important objective to develop better cooperation with and better services in municipalities. The establishment of the teams was a key element in the reform of child protection. The total of 27 teams will include: provide technical assistance in difficult child protection matters and find local solutions in cooperation with municipalities. From the evaluation of the teams, we know that especially small and medium-sized municipalities are most satisfied with the work of the teams. The largest municipalities are at least satisfied. This may be related to the fact that they themselves have a high level of competence and thus do well without the help of the professional teams. At the same time, the report makes it visible that there is still a need to strengthen cooperation between municipalities and professional teams. We have taken the initiative for local meetings between municipalities, professional teams and regional management. The aim is to develop local and committed cooperation agreements. I believe that better cooperation between state and municipal child protection is one of the most important challenges to address and further develop in the coming period. There is sometimes disagreement about the choice of solutions and funding responsibilities in matters that are in the grey zone between state and municipal responsibilities. In particular, where a child needs action under both the Child Protection Act and other welfare laws, such as: in which the child is disabled. In order to avoid lengthy processes, the Ministry, in cooperation with the KS, shall establish a dispute resolution body to take advisory decisions in such disputes. In 2007, the Government launched a multi-annual effort to strengthen the competence of municipal child protection. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has organised conferences for municipal child protection on how to work best with children related to drug abuse, violence and behavioural problems. New knowledge is being tested through development projects in the municipalities. We're in four major projects, covering more than 75 municipalities. To improve the quality of child protection in both the country and the municipality, we need to know which measures help which children and families. We need a knowledge-based child protection. The protection of children must be based on the best available scientific knowledge, together with the experience of the practitioners, critical and ethical assessments. We have also started work on improving Norwegian child protection education and ensuring a common national standard. There's a good search for these educations today. The knowledge of child protection must be both research-based and experience-based. The Ministry has developed a new research and development strategy for the field of child protection, in close dialogue with those working there. An example of good methods in municipal child protection, which we need to better evaluate so that we can spread it to other municipalities, is the way child protection on Søndre Nordstrand has worked actively with family violence. We want such good work evaluated and possibly continued to other municipalities. Our research strategy focuses on two main areas: firstly, we focus on research to document experience from the field of practice, so that we, among other things, become aware of the measures that should be disseminated to other municipalities. We will also be researching methods and measures that provide good results for children's protection. In the first place, we will focus on relief measures in municipalities and foster homes. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality will review the responsibility for research into the protection of children, including research into professional methods. We want to transfer a greater part of the responsibility for these to the directorate. I will consider how the Research Council can be more closely involved to ensure that peer reviews assess the quality of the research. I believe that a department run by politicians should not decide which methods work best. That's what the professionals are supposed to do. We need to have an open discussion on the methods of child protection in order to ensure the best possible quality of the measures we are taking. Some of the most difficult children are those who need both help from mental health care and from child protection. In order to help children with complex problems, we have concluded binding cooperation agreements between state regional child protection and health businesses in all regions. The aim is to strengthen cooperation between child protection, mental health protection for children and young people and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Formalised cooperation between all professional teams and local health establishments is being sought, particularly in the field of mental health protection. Children in child protection are in some cases deprived of mental health protection for children and young people on the grounds that it would not be useful to treat a child living in an unexplained care situation. This is unacceptable. In order to clarify the rights of child-restraint children, I, together with the Minister of Health, have ensured that, in the new priorities for mental health protection for children and young people, it is clear that child-restraint children are entitled to the necessary health care in the same way as other children. In the municipality of Nes in Akershus, child protection, health centre, open kindergarten and children's and youth psychiatry are grouped under one roof. The various relief measures shall cooperate better to help vulnerable children and young people. Recently, we received a supervisory report that showed that most municipalities are not good enough to coordinate their relief measures. The draft law under consideration in the Storting on changes to the Child Protection Act proposes that children in child protection should have an individual plan in which the need for assistance from services other than child protection should be included. In addition, child protection notifyers shall receive feedback from the Child Protection Service. We have also set up a public body to look at how children, young people and their parents can get an overall offer — that there is ‘one door in’ when they need public service assistance. They shall ensure that professional secrecy is an obstacle to such cooperation. In order for vulnerable children to be looked at and followed up as early as possible, kindergartens are an important partner. But we know that kindergartens rarely report concern about child protection. 3 pst. of the statements of concern coming from there. That is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge, we have published a guide on the obligation to provide information on child protection and on cooperation between kindergartens and the Child Welfare Service. Cooperation with the school must also be strengthened. The Ministry has asked the Directorate to ensure that this cooperation is strengthened. Primary and secondary education may be an important fixed point in the life of the child and therefore need to be better planned in the child protection measure. We must ensure that there is no interruption in the child’s education course. Discontinuing schooling is also a violation of the child’s legal right to education. Child protection in the municipality must ensure that both the municipality and the county are informed when the child is given a new place of residence under the protection of the child. During Barna's Question Time here at Stortinget, several of us met an 18-year-old girl who had been incested. She made an impression on politicians from several parties when she told her story. When she was finished, I went over to her and asked what she would do if she had my job. Her answer was quite simple, and that came from a budget debate in any local government: I would then hire several case handlers in municipal child protection. After the girl's secret finally broke and she was supposed to get help from child protection, she had replaced the case handler many times. It wasn't so good to tell his story over and over again. The tasks of municipal child protection have increased significantly in recent years, while the number of posts has not increased accordingly. This has been a particular concern for the employees of the municipalities and the trustees of the Joint Organisation. The government therefore believes that there is a need to provide the protection of children in municipalities with resources to add more professionals. A quarter of the country's municipalities are in a half-time position in municipal child protection. In order to ensure better and more robust services, we know that many involve intermunicipal cooperation. For example, many municipalities in Trom have good experience with inter-municipal cooperation solutions between small municipalities according to the host municipality model. Cooperation has led to better professional robust services. There are also examples of the cooperation of two neighbouring municipalities in each of their counties following this model. It is also linked to positive experience. I believe that this type of cooperation should be pursued by several municipalities. I want to strengthen both the capacity and the quality of municipal child protection. It is important to be able to provide better help to those children who need it. It is also important for children to be able to get help before problems become so large that more comprehensive and cost-intensive measures are needed on the part of child protection. The supervision of the peoples includes, among other things: discovered that the deadlines laid down in the Child Protection Act are being broken in some municipalities. Strengthening municipal child protection will address this problem and ensure a better follow-up of the children. It will strengthen the legal certainty of children. The growth of free revenues for 2010 facilitates a better child protection service. In the 2010 state budget, we will assess how to ensure the quality of municipal child protection, including: in dialogue with KS. The main task of child protection is to intervene early and to provide effective help. The unintended impact of several home-based interventions and documentation requirements has been that some care takeovers have been late. Thus, the biological principle has gained a stronger weight without necessarily having an explicit policy objective. Where there are contradictions between the child’s need for safety and care and the needs and wishes of parents, we need to put the child’s needs ahead of parents to a greater extent than at present. I would therefore like to step up the practice towards the municipalities, so that they consider at an earlier stage than today to promote a case of taking care of the county when relief measures at home do not work. I also believe that there should be stricter criteria for the abolition of care decisions and the return to parents. We also know that those who get early help, good action and after-care are more likely to succeed than those children where child protection comes in late, and where the help ends prematurely. I have met many child-restraint children who believe that child-restraint came in too late, that adults were afraid to say so. – You reported me late, the message was from an 18-year-old girl to the employees at the school and at the leisure club. Those children who are not doing so well usually have too little, not too much child protection. While many child-restraints tell that child-rescue protection was the salvation of their life crisis, I have also met with children and young people who have failed and have not received the help they should have received. The children’s own voice must be strengthened in Norwegian child protection. Child protection has now been given the task of involving children and young people in establishing good offers. This work shall continue. The quality of Norwegian child protection has been strengthened in recent years. This does not mean that child protection can solve all the problems the most vulnerable children have. There are many children in Norwegian child protection who are in the midst of a life crisis. Children's protection children rarely stand on the lawn outside Stortinget with large posters, and they do not demonstrate outside Norwegian town halls. Our ability to strengthen the provision of child-restraint children is therefore the very test of lacmus if we are able to create a society that provides opportunities for all children in Norway. We're on our way, but child-restraints need even more political attention in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e382	The President will propose that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality’s statement on the situation in the field of child protection be submitted to a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e400	Sexual abuse against children is a very difficult theme to talk about. It touches one of the most vulnerable things we have, the children, that we're so afraid of should happen something bad. Then it's hard to think that there are many children in Norway – and also internationally – who experience being hurt at the deepest. That's why it's so important that we can work together across-the-board to find out what we can do to make children and young people grow up safe and healthy, as they do. In recent years, an increasing attention has been paid to unwanted sexual contact between young children and teenagers, older children who are proselytizing younger, and – sometimes – younger children who are committing crimes against the elderly. Research shows, however, that a not insignificant amount of adult offenders committed their first assault as children, or at a young age. It is therefore important to prevent sexual activity between children who are not based on games or who are mutual, but where there are elements of trickery, pressure, coercion, threats or power. Research shows a complicated image where the damage depends on much more conditions than the actual action the children have been subjected to. Some forms of abuse have also been viewed as less serious because they were relatively common in society. Example of this is the sheiks, the talk, the expose and the feel. To minimize this type of abuse is to confuse statistics with ethics. The regularity of a type of attack cannot justify the action. Research shows that girls are two and a half to three times more victims of assault than boys. Compared to boys, girls are constantly more vulnerable to family abuse. These make up between a third and half of the girls’ assault experiences, but only about one tenth to one fifth of the boys’ experiences. The plumbers are mainly good and men. In the last decade, various measures have been put in place to protect children from sexual abuse. It has, for example, have developed programmes to help children to protect themselves, and legislative changes have been made to prevent people who have committed abuses from working with children. The knowledge that about one in three child abuses have been carried out by minors means that efforts must be directed against the ‘young offenders’ group in order to prevent new abuses. Children who commit crimes against other children have often become sexually abused and have experienced a lack of care in childhood. It is therefore important to identify and treat children who live out their own abuse experiences by sexually infringing other children. Large foreign studies show that about one third of young offenders themselves have been sexually assaulted. So most people don't have this experience when they start proselytizing others. On the other hand, most people have been exposed to other forms of infringement and betrayal where particular physical care failure appears to be recorded. In fact, physical care failure poses a greater risk of being encroached on than having been exposed to sexual assault itself. The Bondevik II government launched a comprehensive strategy against sexual and physical abuse against children in the spring of 2005. The plan had four main objectives: to prevent abuse, to detect abuse, to provide adequate assistance and treatment and to increase the competence of the auxiliaries in dealing with such abuses. Prevention has been given considerable space both in that plan and in the action plan against violence in close relations. I am pleased that the current government has followed up this important work in a new action plan against violence in close relations. The plan covers five departments and will provide a lift, not least in terms of knowledge. However, what is missing in this plan is to expand staffing and increase the involvement of users in multi-disciplinary activities. We know that very few care messages are sent from kindergartens and schools to child protection, despite the fact that the vast majority of children stay in kindergarten or school and SFO much of the day. There are some messages from a number of kindergartens and schools that they are adding are uncertain as to the limitations of the obligation to make contact between the public, what requirements are imposed on them under the information obligation, how to make concrete progress to report a concern, whether parents need to be informed, the course of events after the concern has been reported, and the possibility of feedback from child protection. A report from the National Knowledge Centre on Selected and Traumatic Stress shows that general teachers and preschool students do not get adequate knowledge of children’s rights, choice and sexual abuse and conversational methods — knowledge necessary to capture the child and help him or her to obtain the necessary support. Fortunately, the government's action plan against violence in close relations in 2008–2011 contains measures to strengthen the competence of teachers and tutors, but I would ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to this follow-up. When it comes to other measures, I would point out that young people who have committed sexual assault must be granted the right to necessary health care. Many of them have problems requiring treatment in specialist services: anxiety, depression, significant problems with social adaptation, autism or serious problems of aggression and violence. Careful monitoring and investigation of the attacker is necessary in order to be able to provide the services that may help the respondent to better functioning. In establishing knowledge and experience in a relatively new and unknown area, it is important that Norwegian professionals be able to cooperate in an international competence network. Norway relies on most other European countries when it comes to the competence of young people at work. It is also important that clear guidelines are established to notify the police of young people who have committed sexual assault. Different districts of police and county officials disagree with the investigation of young people under the age of 18 and refuse to do so as the younger the child is. It is therefore important to develop clear guidelines for reporting to the police and investigating such cases. Save Children open on 20 November 2008 their anti-election campaign "Please disrupt!" The campaign lasts until spring 2010 and aims to reach adulthood and get adults to do something if they believe that a child is subjected to offensive acts. The children are urging a national effort to focus their search for the most vulnerable and to expose the children of our society. Unfortunately, many children experience abuse, and they feel that they are not given the protection they are entitled to. I've had visits to the Storing of men who have been subjected to sexual abuse as a child. They feel as an extra taboo that guys are experiencing abuse, and that women too can be attackers. They share their stories to help others. There are strong stories from strong guys. I hope the government will take the challenge and make sure that growing up working with children gets more knowledge about children and problems of abuse. It is important for all batches to be able to gather on measures that can improve the situation of displaced children. That is why I am pleased that at Stortinget we have a child rights group where we work across the board and see issues relating to children and young people and legal certainty, on the agenda. At their recent national meeting, the Christian People's Party is committed to implementing a series of actions during the next big-time period in which I hope most political parties will be involved. The first is that it should establish children's homes in all the counties. At the same time, it is important for children not to wait a long time for judgment. A brother and sister in Bergen, who told of parental authority, had to wait 77 days before being judged. More than half of minor victims of assault were expected over a month to be removed. This is serious and threatens the right security of the children. The second is that all schools and kindergartens should be required to have a contingency plan to deal with cases where there is suspicion of violence and child abuse. The third is that the obligation to notify concerns related to violence and child abuse should be stepped up into the health care system, schools and kindergartens. The fourth is that everyone working with children must secure knowledge of the choice and abuse of children. One needs to go through both regular and continuing training provision in order to ensure that knowledge and competence are sufficiently good. The fifth point is that a separate statement is to be made about the choice of children. The distribution must include hearing with children who have been exposed or witnessed violence and abuse. Experience from Barna’s Question Time in 2008 underlines the importance of gaining experience from children and young people, both experience related to choice and abuse and experience related to action. We need to know more about the effects of violence and abuse. I hope that we can jointly put the search light on this to prevent children from enjoying the quiet behind the four walls of the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e449	I would first like to thank the representative for the interpellation. The representative initially mentioned that many sexual abuses are carried out by minors. This is an area where we don't take the damage seriously enough. Too many people underestimate the consequences of being sexually abused by other minors. I'll get into the abuse of minors especially later, but I also see the question as relating to sexual abuse against children more generally. The representative of Molvær Grimstad mentions Article 34 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Several articles could be mentioned. On a general level, the fight against sexual abuse is a struggle for children's human rights. The government has strengthened its efforts to implement the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and will continue to do so. In 2007, the Health Directorate launched six measures to lower the exposure of children and young people’s threshold for contacting the auxiliaries. This work was part of the implementation of the strategy plan for sexual and physical abuse against children. It is coordinated by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. In addition, a telephone is established where you can seek help, and we will establish a nationwide alarm phone during the spring. As part of the same plan, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatised Stress is now developing a knowledge status on the prevention of physical and sexual abuse against children. It shall be completed in a short time. I hope that this knowledge status will provide the basis for more targeted and effective prevention work. Some children and young people have a particular need for protection against physical and sexual abuse and other cross-border behaviour. In order to protect children in child protection institutions and foster homes, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has asked the Directorate to develop its own procedures. The procedures were published in June 2007 for child protection institutions and in February 2009 for foster homes. The routines cover abuse by individuals both inside and outside institutions or foster homes — including children and young people. We can't or should leave the task of telling children and young people ourselves. In cases where the suspect belongs to the child’s family, public servants have an obligation to provide information on child protection. The obligation to provide information is always covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. In other cases, criminal penalties may be imposed. In any case, the parents of vulnerable children must not stand alone with the responsibility to contact, for example. mental health protection for children and young people or the police. In such cases, institutions such as kindergartens, schools and health centres a responsibility to assist parents and children. The school is particularly important for children and young people’s own ability to tell if they have been abused or know someone who has become so. The fact that teachers or school health services provide factual and good information on the topic of abuse allows students to report on what too many people are a very heavy secret to carry. This implies that school staff and health services, as they do when children and young people, need to have knowledge of the topic and know how to follow up the students concerned. Five regional resource centres on violence, traumatised stress and suicide prevention were established in 2006 and 2007. All centres have their own specialist groups for the work on violence and abuse. Minors who commit abuse belong to the themes that the centres deal with. The role of centres in the fight against abuse consists of guidance, consultation, dissemination of knowledge and networking. Five children’s homes are now established. The responsibilities of children’s homes are issues relating to sexual abuse and violence in close relationships, and providing guidance, consultation and treatment is one of the most important tasks of children’s homes. Overall, this is a significant step forward to help vulnerable children. In order to improve the treatment provision of children exposed to violence and abuse, an internationally recognised treatment method is being used in Norway in 2008–2011. It's called trauma-focused, cognitive behavioural therapy. Testing of this method is carried out in cooperation between the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatised Stress, Outpatients in Mental Health Protection for Children and Young People and Professional Environments in other countries. In cases where offenders are under 18 years of age, this poses special challenges. The action itself is equally serious if it is committed by persons over or under 18 years of age. In addition, research suggests that relatively many of those who commit sexual assaults against children as adults began to do so when they themselves were minors. When children who have infringed other sexually are placed in child protection institutions, the need to protect other children needs to be carefully assessed. Child protection services cannot provide the necessary treatment for children and young people who have shown such behaviour. Psychiatric health protection for children and young people is responsible for providing treatment. By offering this group of investigations and treatment, we will, among other things: contribute to the prevention of future abuses. A unit at Bethany Child and Youth Psychiatric Outpatient Clinic in Bergen is a specialised unit working with young people under 18 who have violated others sexually. The unit is organised as a project funded by funds from the Health Directorate and the Foundation of Bethany. There is a project report from January 2009 with recommendations in relation to further work. Central health authorities will decide on how to continue the experience of the project. In this context, a country-wide monitoring of treatment competence in the field of mental health protection for children and young people will be carried out. The representative, Molvær Grimstad, also asks how we can ensure that those working with children and young people can have adequate skills. This is an aspect that has been reinforced in the big message, the teacher's role and education, from the Ministry of Knowledge. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has also recently submitted a report on the development of child protection competences. We will consider how to strengthen knowledge of these conditions in basic training for child protection educators and socionomists. The government will ensure a comprehensive and coordinated offer both to abused children and to offenders. Much has been done, and the effort to improve the offer will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e489	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for her commitment in this area. At regular intervals, we in the media have been given examples of many tragic things, of people who have experienced sexual abuse. There are children who tell that they are not believed when they tell other adults that they have experienced abuse, children who have experienced abuse at an institution, and who wish to have awake night shifts at the institution to make them safer, foster children who have experienced abuse in foster homes, and there are several foster parents who demand more supervisors. Something that goes on in a lot of the stories we get is that adults have too little knowledge to capture the signals from the children. I myself have spoken to many preschool teachers and teachers who say that a lack of education is to be trained, for example. in having a dialogue with children where one suspects sexual assault. They're not sure how to deal with the difficult situation they're in. We've been listening to this for years, so I'm impatient to make concrete changes in education for those who become preschool teachers and teachers. When does the Council of State see that this can become a reality? Now I know that this applies to different departments, but it is important to work across departments. When can you expect a better education? And also this with training: we know that the professionals who are currently working to train the police in deterrent techniques are very few. This is a very important job, and we need more professionals who can work on this. The children's environment has come up with a recording from several Nordic children's organisations that the dentists are in a unique position to see children who are subjected to abuse and care failure through the role of the dentist. With their close contact with children, they get a good overview of injuries, and they can register if they don't attend dental sessions. It'll be important to capture what the dentists bring here. It may not be the professional group that thinks about it first when it comes to discovering children who have been assaulted, but in fact, with the treatment they provide to children, they can discover several features that may give rise to concern. So what I want the Council of State to say is quite specific: when can we expect a change here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e502	We have now started to reform teacher training. It's especially one year of education that we're going to facilitate teachers' knowledge of teaching methods, but also of the responsibilities of teaching. It's as part of this work that we want to strengthen the teachers' ability not to treat, but to see and detect sexual abuse. We have done the same work in relation to those who work in child protection education, in order to strengthen their work. It has not been good enough for all those who have worked in municipal child protection. We have focused on increasing knowledge among those who are working on it today. But we have a parallel process of improving education for those who work in child protection. But we can't wait for all the graduates to get into work, so we have to work systematically to spread knowledge of abuse to, among other things. employees of municipal child protection today. The representative names the dentists. I feel that there is an increasing attention to these challenges, including on the part of dentists. There are a lot of dentists who have a lot of commitment to these things. More and more have been written about these conditions in journals and magazines for dentists. But there is also a need for a knowledge update in this field. The dentists have been and are important to discover that type of attack. The aim of children’s homes is to disseminate knowledge and methods of questioning children. There's a big difference between those who are interrogated in the children's houses and those who have been questioned by the police in the past. Families who have cooperated with both bodies have told me that children's homes have significantly higher competence in questioning children. I would also like to say that the research undertaken through the resource centres on violence and traumatised stress is not just about monitoring, but also about disseminating knowledge of good working methods. So I mean we do more than before, but we have to intensify the work. Here are the taboos we're fighting a lot against. When adults sometimes begin to suspect that something is serious wrong, there is too much tendency to ignore if you see things you prefer not to discover. It has been to a large extent the case of underestimating how serious it is to be sexually violated by other children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e515	First, I want to commend the interpellant for taking up the situation of children who experience abuse. No one should have to experience this – least of all children who have no other than us adults to protect themselves. These are the weakest of the weakest — the silent children, to which the Council of State was referring earlier today. Moreover, when sexual abuse occurs at home, the situation for these children becomes even worse. The home shall be the safety of the children. When the abuses are carried out by those in whom the children are initially to be trusted, the children are in an unsustainable situation. When the interpellant asks what the Government will do to prevent children and young people from being sexually assaulted, this is a difficult task for the Government alone, because the abuses are just happening in enclosed spaces, in the private sphere. Children are loyal to their so-called closest ones, which in the cases of assault are children's enemies. Small children don't know who or where they can say from. Many children are probably also frightened by the attacker. I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Justice take this problem very seriously and have been committed to giving children better opportunity to say so. A good example of this is, of course, the establishment of children’s homes. In addition, the Minister of Justice has written a book entitled ‘The Bear Sleeps’. It is recommended for all those interested in the children’s situation. The children live in municipalities. It is in the municipalities that the children can be helped first and foremost. Then the children must be seen. Who is it that first sees the children? Well, they're the ones that the children first come in contact with outside the home. The health station is one place. But maybe the most important thing is kindergarten. I believe that the employees of kindergartens need to have better skills, which has also been the subject of the Council of State. They must have better skills to see the child and to read the child and the signals given by the child. The signals may, of course, be visible, as blue marks on the body. But it's equally important to be able to read the child's behavior, such as apathy or particularly outrageous behavior. Kindergarten staff may become the most important security in the child's life when the home is associated with fear and insecurity, so when the abuses occur there. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has stressed the need for multidisciplinary cooperation. I fully support that. But then different professionals must not sit on each of their tues and hide behind a taushet vow. Full transparency, in order for children to be helped, must be a goal for all who work with children. In my previous life, I worked with child protection. In the light of the postwar clock, I can safely admit that what I regret today is that I did not take more children out of a problematic home, which was not a good environment for children to grow up in. However, it is not easy to work in child protection in smaller places, where everyone knows everything about everyone. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality attaches great importance to the professional teams, which are designed to help municipal child protection with competence in difficult decisions and decisions. I want to give praise to everyone in Child Protection who works with the protection of children. They have a very responsible job, even if the pay doesn't reflect exactly that. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland once said that she missed the neighbour's ring. I think more people would care, don't care. We adults don't have the right to close our eyes and ears when we're in doubt when we discover children who don't have it right. We adults have to be alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e532	It's a very important theme interpellant Molvær Grimstad brings up today, and I'm very happy that we dare to talk about it. It is important because, unfortunately, there is still too little knowledge of abuse and too little knowledge of picking up signals. That's why I'm incredibly happy with what the Council of State said about doing a research effort. Much of the knowledge is based on research and, unfortunately, research is too little in terms of sexual abuse of children and its consequences — including long-term consequences. Violence and sexual abuse occur at home, at school, where children work, and where children live. Unfortunately, loyalty and the fear that something terrible will happen if you tell me about the abuses, some of the reason why the victims of the assault do not dare to speak. Fortunately, both the Minister for Family Affairs and, not least, the Minister of Justice of the current government have done a good job of preventing and, not least, giving children an opportunity to say from their own hands. The children's houses, for which the Minister of Justice has broken down, we have some of them, but we can and should probably get it more places. I guess it's on the agenda. The children's home is a place where children can tell in a safe and competent environment about the dangerous and scary things. Also, the alarm phone, which has been notified by the Council of State in June, I am very happy to get in place. Children who have been sexually assaulted need to know that they have a place to turn, a place that is easy to remember the number to. I'm very happy that it's coming into place. The supervisor who also gives advice to adults who associate with children about what to look for and listen to is one of the important tools for reaching the vulnerable children. In spite of all the good things that this government has done – some people in the hall may be a little surprised that this comes from me, but if we honor the one to be honored – we see and we hear about the assault anyway. Unfortunately, it is not always as easy to know what is going on behind closed doors in the home. That's why it's important to tell every child that talking to adults is important, whether it's the victim or friends who know something about the dangerous. But when children are subjected to sexual abuse in institutions, at school or in kindergarten, I react with disbelief – and probably many with me. It should not be possible to expose children to sexual assault while in some form of custody. This is a problem issue that I think we need to focus more on and work with. It appears that it is a problem that older young people in, for example, child protection institutions are prejudicial to those younger. The fact that this is probably the most important thing to have power over and to scare the younger ones into loyalty is then their case, but therefore it is all the more imperative that employees have an overview of what is really going on at the institution. The ‘reading’ of both children and the institutional environment should probably be enhanced than is currently being done. We know, among other things: that the Stine Sofies Foundation provides a teaching system for both children, young people and adults who address this issue. Had you had the necessary competence, these abuses might have been avoided, or at least been revealed at a long earlier time. Finally, I would like to focus on the children we hear least about, namely those who disappear, whether they disappear from asylum reception, or there are school desks that are empty. What do we know about these children? Unfortunately, we know far too little, but what we know is that there is a major trade of children in Europe. Why are these children not prioritised in Norway when they disappear? Why aren't you really looking for them? Children who disappear from schools settle down because they are in some country of origin? Children who escape reception don't you care about looking for them? Do we know if these children have been trafficked and sold on as sex slaves? In addition to the good work that the government has actually done in this field, I would encourage it to give priority to all children who don't have any adults to go to, those who just stay away, because they need our help most.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e549	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, which we have also discussed several times in the past. Suffering if many parties excel with their absence today, I think it's a general, broad political commitment to get something done in this area. I believe all the parties. There have been many good posts here today, so there are just a few things I want to draw out. One is that we don't have to create systems that pulverize responsibility and that require everyone to know everything, always. When it comes to learning to see signals, it's a field that we really don't know so much about, we can't say that signals are exact. It's not an exact knowledge that you can spread to the great masses who work with children. Therefore, it is important that those who work with children have a great deal of professional competence. So, when a teacher is insecure, when a preschool teacher is insecure, when a health sister is insecure, you should have the very best of contact. We can't expect all teachers to be able to perceive all the signals, always. But we should be able to expect that all teachers know where to turn when they're insecure, or if a child comes to them. I think it's important that we don't pulverize all the responsibility that all pre-school teachers, all teachers and anyone who works with children at all times should know about all the signals. That's what we've been up to, taught us. What the Bjugn thing has taught us, and the other thing has taught us, is that science is not that exact. I have visited the departmental group at Ullevål University Hospital that is working on just this. They're working on child questioning and researching children for sexual assault. It's a very good team, which is really pretty small in relation to the big area it's supposed to represent. It's important to gather the expertise in one place and let the expertise be expertise, and let all other adults around children be ordinary adults who know where to turn if there's something that's unclear, if there's something they're wondering, or if they're getting signals that something is wrong. I think it's important to have that openness in the systems as well. Then I have faith that not only should you bet on the new, modern things, but that you should also bet on the good old-fashioned things. I have great faith that a good health sister service in schools is helping to cope with too much of the pressure that comes from many teachers. The health nurse may have knowledge that is completely different, and she may have an entrance in relation to the student that is completely different. I think it's important to bet on such basic things. I think it's important to bet on openness in society. I have a great deal of concern about this. It is an expression that the fur works of rich people hide all sin, while the fillets of poor people show everything. I think it's easier to get caught if you're experiencing an assault, and you belong to the lowest social authorities, and it's easier to hide in the top social authorities. Maybe it's easier to be overreacher there, because it doesn't seem as easy there as it often does in the lower social shifts. I think we can quickly experience ambiguities here, because it's easier to unmask abuse when you have the ability to smooth it out with good welfare. I think that's a warning for our child protection in general. I think it's a big, broad political commitment to doing something about this, but we have to be careful that we're betting on getting more and more knowledge about it and more and more transparency related to it. We have to make sure that the best professionals are working on this, and that all adults know where the professionals are, but that we have the opportunity to be ordinary adults – common neighboring girls, common preschool teachers – who know where to turn on the day you start to fool.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e573	The interpellant addresses a very important theme that embraces many departments. In the Justice Committee, we have been actively working on this subject throughout this process of mass destruction. I want to highlight some of the things we have done in this area. In 2007, we adopted the so-called ‘grrooming’ provision, which makes it a criminal offence for an adult to contact children on the Internet with the intention of achieving sexual contact. We've put a red button on the Internet, which is the same thing as a police station online, where the kids can report to the police when they experience unwanted online contact with someone who pretends to be an peers, but who turns out to be an adult. In the Soria Moria statement, we stated that we would make a children's house according to the model from Iceland. Several people who have spoken have been involved. Our legal system is not built for small children to come to question and be in our courts. They're not very suitable for this kind of thing. So in the Children's House, we've suggested that the children meet professional professionals to guide parents and relatives who suspect sexual abuse. The child shall not go from child protection to the hospital, to the police and to the court of justice. In the Barneshuset we have gathered everything – medical examination, conversation with a psychologist and the police and the court hearings. The opposition is concerned that the Government is committing a breach of promises. Yes, we have! We said we should try to have a children's home, but we have got five, namely in Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, Tromsø and Trondheim, and next year there will be one in Oslo. Children's houses will then be nationwide. The government has also presented the ‘turning point’ action plan on violence in close relationships, where there are 50 interventions, and many are targeting children and young people. As the interpellant mentioned, there are five departments cooperating. This is hard work. Several departments have to work together to get a good job on this. The creation of a rotational book, so that those who are engaged in teacher training, those who work in kindergartens, should know who they are going to address, is one of the things that have been addressed in the «turning» section. We have stated that children who have witnessed violence will also receive compensation for their victims. We have also increased the possibility of getting an assistant lawyer in matters relating to sexual assault. The police have an important role to play in these matters. From 2008, all police districts shall have a family violence coordinator. It must be a full position. It's because, something in the interpellant was in place, we're going to get a consistent practice in these cases. We're going to have a skills enhancement, and it's going to be a consistent practice. The fact that the country's 27 police districts have a family violence coordinator will enable them to work better and with a consistent practice. The establishment of police councils, the fact that we have SLT coordinators, are also instruments to prevent abuses against children and young people. It is very important to work at a transnational level — between child protection, school, health care, kindergarten and police. Also, the work that Alternatives to Violence do is important, too many children who are subjected to violence and abuse continue in the same spiral. So getting an alternative to violence and working with that problem is important. The level of penalties for crimes such as violence in close relationships and child abuse is significantly increased. It is clear that the Justice Committee concluded last week its examination of the Government's proposal for a new penal code. This includes, inter alia: that sexual assault on children under 14 years of age provides a minimum sentence of three years. The punishment for abuse in close relationships increases from three to six years and for gross abuse from six to 15 years. But I would like to stress that although it is important in these areas that we get a stronger legal protection for the vulnerable groups, many of those I have talked to have been subjected to abuse are not necessarily so concerned with the length of punishment, but with being believed and being heard about what you have experienced. What about sexuality and the ability of children to limit their sexuality is taboo. Today’s debate is an important step on the way – that we adults talk about it and focus on it, and that it should be possible for children to contact adults and talk about their problems. The action of the Red Children, ‘Please disturb!’ is very striking in that way. You should be allowed to care, and the information obligation should be something you use when working with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e592	I want to thank everyone who shared the interpellation. It's great that a lot of people have an exposure to this. What I think is important to address further, is the problem that others have also mentioned here, that is, the obligation to participate. There are a number of professionals who are experiencing the responsibility of taking part, as it is today, as a dilemma. It prevents them from helping children and getting information because of the obligations of health nurses, teachers, kindergartens, etc. is too strict. I think it's very important to bring it with me. Getting more children's protection is probably also very important, because it's clear that the capacity of a lot of places is blown up, and it's important to follow up well enough. Many of us have met a number of children who have been under child protection and who, in pure despair, say that child protection is good, but that they should have received help before, and that they should have been followed up earlier. Ein, who was here at Stortinget, said she was so tired of being manipulated by the mother by child protection. When she was 15 years old, she refused to live with the mother anymore and wanted to move. It is so important that we listen to the children and give them who work in the field of child protection, sufficient skills and professional replenishment, and make sure that there are enough people who can work on this. Karin Woldseth was in on the very point that I was going to take note of – the one with teaching materials in the school. The Stine Sofies Foundation, in cooperation with Lions – I think it was – has developed a teaching program to help and teach children to set limits. The teaching material has been tested in some schools in some municipalities, has been evaluated and received very positive feedback. I urge the Council of State to bring up with the Minister of Knowledge that there are educational materials that can really catch up and help children set boundaries, which have been well evaluated, and which should really ensure that they have a nationwide coverage as soon as possible. The thing about health nurses, which many people have been about, is my last point. There are many children who say they could wish that health nurses had better time to talk. One has health nurses at health centres to catch up with parents and their challenges, but children also need to talk to someone, perhaps other than the teacher, about the challenges and problems they experience. A lot of people experience health sisters as a safe place, but they'd like her to have more time. So the fact that the health sisters get more time, both in the children's and youth's school and in the secondary school, is important. Their resources and their significance are very important, including in the fight against the sexual abuse of children. I think there's a lot of factors we can work with in common, and I hope that everyone will keep the light on the high raised, so we'll get the most done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e608	I would like to thank you for a good debate with many important input. We should not leave children and young people alone responsible for reporting abuses, but which have been discussed by others: It helps to gain more knowledge about them. Some of the children I talked to said, "I didn't think it was wrong, I didn't understand it." They may not have understood it until they saw a TV show or heard about others who had been exposed to the same thing. I have therefore, in cooperation with the Minister of Knowledge, started work to improve school education on how to report violence and abuse and also on care failure. There are many children who do not know where to seek help, and some of these children have learned at home that contacting the auxiliaries is really bad. I have also challenged many of the groups of young girls that I have met in Support Centers against Incest. Some of them have experience of having been abused by other children, from other young people. I asked them, what was it that you had told the secret before? Their work will be important in setting up better school arrangements for reporting abuses to a greater extent. I think health nurses are important, but I also think help services that environmental therapists and child protection educators entering school can relieve a lot of the pressure that teachers in today's school feel. Many teachers say that they must be social teachers, that they must not learn anything. Well, then we should hire people in school who have different skills and who can help the kids. Karin Woldseth was concerned about this with disappearances from asylum recipients. When we received a report that showed that this was happening to a much greater extent than what we were aware of earlier, the police immediately contacted it, and the individual reception took a greater interest in it. Then we got a systematisation of the work, because that kind of matter was to be reported. It is clear that it was totally unacceptable that the child disappeared without anything happening. So this is an important element of professional secrecy. Sometimes it is said that this is not a problem, we get it, and sometimes we have seen that once local authorities have received assistance, they have managed to handle the obligation of professional secrecy in an appropriate way. However, I also see many requests that the obligation of professional secrecy is an obstacle to cooperation. This is precisely why we have set up a public body to review the obligation of professional secrecy with a view to strengthening the coordination of various assistance services for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e623	The debate on substance is then closed. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e639	In 1965, the series ‘Norwegian mountain pastures’ gave a comprehensive overview of vegetation and grazing conditions for reindeer in Finnmark. Erling Liftingsmo was the manager and coordinator of the work. The main conclusions of Heftingsmo were that the low heaths in southern parts of the Finnmarks range were of great power with a thickness of 10–15 cm early in the 1960s. It was recorded ‘small reindeer tracks as ski tracks in the low mat’. The research company NORUT IT has published several reports on the grazing situation at Finnmarksvidda, among others. based on satellite data from 1973 and up to 1996. The reports contrast sharply with the description of decimetre thickness layers with humid reinlav in the 1960s. NORUT's research reports show that while only 15 pst. of the reindeer pastures in Finnmark was heavily populated in 1973, was 42 pst. High bite and 50 pst. in 1996. At the rate at which grazing areas become degraded, most of the former grazing areas will no longer be used for reindeer farming in a few years. Figures from grazing areas outside Finnmark – by producing southern Sami areas such as Trondelagsfylken and Hedmark – show that fewer animals give higher slaughter weight. Half as many animals per day. the area as in West Finland, on the basis of the figures, could result in a double slaughter weight for each animal. This means that the industry will be able to employ as many people as it is today, even if the number of people in the industry is significantly reduced. Greater weight per person animals also cause fewer losses, since well-nourished animals will both be better off during winter and will not be easily attacked by predators. But that also means commitments that the industry has not wanted to take on, in terms of far fewer animals for the largest holdings. I also held this opening on 30 November 2000 in an interview with the then Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. In response at the time, the Minister for Agriculture said among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘I share in many ways the inter-pellant’s concerns regarding Finnmarkswiss conditions. We are facing a situation with serious consequences for both the natural basis and the reindeer industry. As the interpellant emphasises, this is a long-standing development.» The Minister of Agriculture also said at the time, after describing the expansion of reindeer operations through motorisation and high reindeer numbers: ‘We now see the results — a figure of total imbalance with the grazing base, totally unacceptable reindeer losses, productivity approaching zero, and an economy that is disastrous for many of the families that have based their livelihoods on reindeer management.’ Each year, the Reintletriebsmanagement provides an overview of the resource situation in reindeer management, which allows developments to be monitored both over time and to compare the resource situation between different parts of the country. I have gone into some of the figures for the 2006–2007 operational year and what you can see there is that the yield in the tambourines – i.e. the layers that are so far non-Samian – was 16.9 kg per. live animals. Live animals mean the number of persons registered as clean per year. 1 April each year, i.e. before calving. In that case, 16.9 kg per year has been produced. animals of domestic animals. Corresponding figures for the southern Sami areas in Trondelag and Hedmark were 14 kg, while in West Finland – where the grazing base is the worst and the number of animals in relation to the grazing base is the highest – yield was 6.7 kg of meat per. live animals. The figures for the last year are not very different, so these are completely relevant numbers. Looking at production figures over time, the production of meat is very stable and stable in the southern Sami regions. From 1990 to 2008, it is located in a place between 12 and 15 kg per year. live animals, while the figures in West Finland range between 1.3 kg, which was down in the 1997–98 year, and up to 10 kg in the best year, which was 2002–2003. This means that even in the best year of production in Finnmark, many kilograms were below the production figures in the southern Sami regions. In addition to the fact that the amount of meat thus becomes low, the quality of the meat also becomes poor. The meat becomes dry and lean. One reason why the amount of meat produced can be low is that the loss figures given in the industry are high. The resource accounts for reindeer management show that in West Finland 18 142 calves – corresponding to every four to two calves, slightly depending on the year being measured – were recorded as taken from predators, while the number of calves delivered to the slaughterhouse was 12,431. That means that far more calves were lost through one year of operation than what was delivered to slaughter. Similarly, 4,984 adult animals were reported to be lost, while 7,619 were supplied to slaughterhouses. These are figures from 2006–2007. In the year of operation that I now mentioned, it was produced approx. 1 100 tonnes of reindeer meat in Finland. In comparison, over a few weeks in the autumn of 2008, 100 tonnes of elk were shot — i.e. 100 tonnes — by hobby hunters, which last for a few days during a very short season. So it's going to be equal to an output of approx. 10 pst. of what was produced from reindeer meat over a whole year and then divided into 2,855 persons employed. Looking at the quantity of elk meat produced in Hedmark and Uppland, which is so much in the same situation – these are people who run on a hobby basis – more elk meat was produced in a few short harvest weeks by hobby hunters in Hedmark and Uppland, than in total it was produced by almost 3,000 people employed in reindeer farming in Finnmark. In Finland, the number of persons employed in the farming industry is about 200, and there are about 200. 200 fish marshes in the county, each producing approximately 200 tonnes of fish per year without, at least to a marginal extent, state aid — once established, it is the income of the business that operates it. By under 10 pst. employed persons of the number of reintroduction units employed produce 40 000 tonnes of slaughtered fish per farm. years, or approx. the early grubbing-up of reindeer operations. Per employed it corresponds to more than 400 times the amount of meat. For a time, a conflict between the small town of Nervei in East Finland and the reindeer pasture district 13 arose conditional on Nervei wanting to make way for the village where 30 people live. The road section it was about to build is 14 km. Both Finnmark County and the County Council of Finnmark supported the idea that the road should be built. Built with the 30 persons living in all materially by fishing and borders also against the fjord in Gamvik municipality. In 2008, the municipality delivered approx. 150 tonnes of eviscerated and capped fish, corresponding to a round weight of approximately: 200 tons. The value was approx. $4.7 million. kr in first-hand value, or close to 10 mill. kr in export value. So that means that the 30 people produced significant values for society, and without society having to contribute to the rise of values. On 2 February 2009, Nervej v Reinbeite district 13 lost to the Law of Lawyers and was sentenced to replace lost pasturage with reindeer. A small town with 30 people, who produce enormous values for society, got limited activity, didn't get a roadblock, and also said that they didn't mean to appeal to the Supreme Court, because of an activity that's subsidized, which employs nearly 3,000, but where it does. head almost no longer produces meat. This situation has arisen because one has also had a legal status in which reindeer operations are so strong that almost no matter what kind of business one might be interested in establishing in Finnmark, it will conflict with reindeer operations. This means that a number of actors from outside today will become involved in, for example: mineral exploration activities in Finnmark. What I am now describing is happening in a state that has a gradual decline in the population — from the time it was up to about 30 years ago. 79 000 in 1978, and until now it is down to approx. 72 000. This means, then, that there is a significant need to create jobs that increase value creation so that the employment factor increases. However, when it can be seen in the field of land that there is a conflict with a non-sustainable industry that is damaging to nature and that takes out considerable resources from the public sector, there must be reason to call for action from the Minister of Agriculture on how to do something about this development – both to reduce total costs and to limit the adverse effects on nature and to prevent conflict with other industries. That's the question I want to clarify here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e681	Let me first make it clear that, like the representative, Ballo, I am very concerned about the redundancy situation in Finnmark. However, as regards the reference of the interpellation in relation to the development of the pasturage, slaughter and marketing, I would like to be told immediately that this is both unhealthy and partially misleading. I'll be right back. I don't think the representative Ballo disagrees with me when I say that the challenges associated with the use of grazing resources, based on the objectives of an ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer industry, must be seen in a holistic and long-term perspective. I also believe that most people here will agree with me that this government has taken many and important steps to achieve a sustainable reindeer industry. Before I get closer to it, I find it necessary to mention some key points that form the basis for that work. The most important is the development of reindeer and pasturage. When the representative Ballo points out that there are too many reindeer in Finnmark in relation to the grazing grounds, it is one too unhealthy claim. The problems with the reindeer numbers in Finnmark are not uniform, and they do not apply to all parts of Finnmark. I must therefore stress that the problem of an excessive reindeer in relation to the grazing grounds is linked to parts of Finnmark. This is not a reason for an in-depth description of the reindeer development in Finnmark over time. However, the main features are that the number has varied significantly over the past 20–30 years. These changes are primarily directed towards the yield in the form of calf access, slaughtering and loss rates. After a strong increase beyond the 1980s, the reindeer in Finnmark reached its highest level to date in 1989 of a total of 199 000 animals. Five years later, this was reduced to 151,000 animals, and in 2001 the number had fallen further to 109 000 animals. Then, a very rapid increase occurred, to 170 000 animals in 2004, in order to further increase to 186 000 in 2008, which are the last recorded figures. This means, therefore, that the number increased significantly after the fall around the millennial shift, but at decreasing speeds over the last few years. Also, conditions related to grazing development are somewhat more nuanced than one gets the impression of the interpellation of Ballo. Studies on the development of the winter pastures in Finnmark have shown a significant decrease in the low pastures in the period from the early 1970s onwards to the late 1990s, as the representative Ballo also points out in his statement here. The decline was particularly strong during the 1980s. In order to follow these developments systematically, it became too much. 10 years ago a separate monitoring programme for the reindeer pastures in Finnmarksvidda was launched. This is based on satellite-monitoring and field-based surveys. Work started in 1998 and monitoring was last carried out in 2005–2006. The results of this last survey show a steady improvement in low levels from 1998. This is attributed to both the reduction in the purity of the first years after 2000 and not least the change in the use of available pastures due to changes in climatic conditions. There is reason to stress that the failure in the improvement recorded is still far from being able to be characterised as satisfactory. It shall also be added that there is a wide variation in the grazing condition. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food considers the work of this monitoring programme to be very important in providing facts on grazing conditions in Finnland. The programme shall be followed up with a new round of monitoring in 2009-2010. Problems with too high a reindeer in parts of Finnmark are, as the representative Ballo is well known, not of a new date. However, it was only during this government that a new reindeer law was taken into account, which will also help us to better adjust the reindeer over time in relation to grazing resources. Since the entry into force of the new reindeer management law on 1 July 2007, the task of implementing the law has been the highest priority in the ministry. A first condition for the industry to make use of the new law was that districts had to appoint district government according to the provisions of the new law. This was done as early as possible and at the time limit set by the Ministry, i.e. 1 July 2008. The new law emphasises that public-law regulations and decisions in relation to the reindeer industry should be limited to what is strictly necessary. Under the Internal Self-Government Act, it is primarily the responsibility of the practitioners to come up with sensible and long-term solutions in the management of resources. By doing so, decisions and their follow-up will be given a firming and legitimacy in the industry. This does not preclude the possibility for the authorities, in the circumstances, to intervene in given situations, and the new law also gives others and better ways of sanctioning them if required. In the law, rules of use are the central tool for developing sustainable clean-up. The rules of use shall be drawn up by the district authorities and shall include, inter alia: provide detailed rules on the distribution of grazing between siddas and on the clean-up, use and maintenance of fences and other common facilities, the use of motorised vehicles, the disposal of labour and financial resources. The rules of use shall be approved by the Area Management Board as a public authority and, for the purpose of determining the reindeer number, shall specifically require its approval by the Management Board. Thus, once the individual district managers have transmitted rules of use to the authorities, proposals shall be made for the reindeer according to the grazing area available to the siidae in the district. If this figure is approved by the Purity Management Board, the new reindeer number will be used in the follow-up. Previous decisions on maximum purity will therefore be lost. For some districts, this may mean that they are given a measure that is, in total, lower than the previously agreed figure. For others, it could be higher, while some will have to go on with what has been established in the past. The main point is that it is the sustainability of the gravitational area of the siidae to determine the reindeer number. Once recognised, it will be much easier to impose penalties in order to reduce any excess in purity to the level adopted. As the representative of Ballo is well known, these possibilities were not within the old reindeer law. For some districts, grazing rules will be the most clearly difficult task for developing the rules of use. However, it must be stressed that for the vast majority of districts, there will be no problems related to this task. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has launched a series of information and guidance measures in the follow-up to new legislation. Financial resources have been made available to the districts for the preparation of rules of use. In the last clean-up agreement, the parties agreed to strengthen the financial contribution in order to give even higher priority to the work. We must therefore be aware that we are now going to complete the first phase of the implementation of new reindeer management law, and this is a very important phase. The work of districts on rules of use is foreseen by 1 July 2009 and it is necessary to await its results before considering any further measures. We will then be given indications as to whether the new tool according to the law is intended to solve the challenges we face. Only after the rules of use have been dealt with in the governing bodies have there been grounds for assessing the need for further action. Efforts to increase slaughter outlets in order to adapt the reindeer numbers to the reindeer resources and to maximise the use of production potential have been another high priority task over several years. The transformation of the instruments into the reindeer management agreement, which took place for the first time in 2003–04, turns out to be a successful change. These changes have resulted in an increase in slaughter outlets, especially in Finnland. The establishment of incentives for increased production and slaughter has also been continued and partly reinforced in the subsequent grubbing-up agreements. An increase in slaughter yields, together with a better price of reindeer meat through increased marketing, is the background to a 72 million increase in production-based income in Finnmark. SEK in 2006 to 86 million. kr in 2007. At the same time, State subsidies from 2006 to 2007 have been reduced from 61 million. to 48 million. kr. In other words, revenue increased by 18 p.m., while subsidies decreased by 22 p.m. It therefore does not result in the accuracy of what Ballo claims that the industry is less ‘manufacturing for sale’. Although one should be careful about using such changes from one year to another, we see this increase in output as part of a more long-term trend. However, there is a significant potential for increased slaughter outlets in many of the districts of Finnmark. The Ministry will follow up on measures and instruments to exploit these opportunities. In this context, I can mention that the last reindeer management agreement introduced a test scheme for the Vest-Finnmark reindeer grazing area. In these areas, the early-slaughter premium scheme and calf-slaughter premium scheme will be replaced by a grant conditional on the recipient meeting a specific slaughter and production requirement. This is an interesting pilot project which is also expected by the industry in terms of impact on slaughter. This involves moving the focus from grants to production to an even greater degree than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e711	I think the Minister of Agriculture's answer was a good visualization of why nothing is happening in this field. When you say that the increase in the number of animals has happened ‘at decreasing speed’, I think the arguments are somewhat thin. Obviously, if an increase occurs when the number is going to decrease, you can't defend it because that increase has happened at a lower rate than before. Then you have to take care of it and get the reindeer to actually go down. I must also say that when one argues as if there has been an improvement in efficiency in reindeer farming because the subsidies have gone down somewhat while at the same time getting some variation in the amount of meat produced, it is, in the case of making demands on the industry, too cautiously stated. I saw a calculation not long ago when it was calculated that the aid schemes against a kilo of reindeer meat produced – the one who set up the numbers accepted that they also had withdrawals for private consumption – were in the order of 500 kroner per. kilograms of meat produced. It's clear that based on such enormous numbers, it could have years of variation. What you have to do is get hold of it in a completely different way from what the Minister of Agriculture sees in his speech here today. I have to say, even though we are now part of this government, that my impression is that the difference between alternate governments on this issue is completely marginal. I have no faith, with the approach described by the Minister of Agriculture today, that in five years' time the situation will be described as substantially changed. That's ample opportunity to see, five years goes relatively fast. No matter who we might have as Minister of Agriculture, I think that these issues, to the extent that they have changed character, have only strengthened. There are not very many other industries in Norway where we are willing to go so far as to close our eyes when it comes to making demands for production, and animal husbandry requirements for that matter. Imagine if a man would have cows on the booth and between a quarter and half of the calves died every year, and the government continued to grant the industry as if nothing had happened! This is an unacceptable situation in which far sharper instruments should have been used and taken in a much stronger way than what the Minister of Agriculture is seeing here today. I would also like the Minister of Agriculture to have more clearly liberated himself from the script from his own office and actually meant something about these questions on his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e722	The last comment, about freeing myself from the script, I suppose should be valid for everyone here. I think I saw the same connection to the script from the representative Ballo as from me. I want to underline a few things about the matter. Firstly, the new reindeer management law assumes a greater degree of responsibility even in the industry in order to implement more sustainable development. A more sustainable development depends on the fact that we get the industry on the team. If we don't do that, all the measures will be useless as long as we want to maintain a reindeer industry in Finnmark and elsewhere in the country. That's the starting point for the change in the reindeer management law, that's the starting point for me to say that now we have to wait for the implementation of the reindeer management law, and that's the starting point for me to say that we see that it produces results in some areas and that we also put more effort into those areas where it hasn't yet produced results. After all, the starting point is that cooperation in the various reindeer districts is to ensure that the number of reindeer farms is adapted to the grazing base. When we then see that there are results in some areas after the reindeer law has been introduced, we have to give myself a chance to implement the same thing to the other areas where this has not yet been achieved. It is my ambition in this matter to follow up so that you get a more sustainable reindeer drift. With regard to the comparison with farming and hunting and fishing, I believe that there is a particularly sought-after comparison, in the sense that we are now talking about a reindeer industry that all parties in this collapse, as far as I know, have said that they want to maintain in the future. Then, these attacks by the representative Ballo on reindeer operations become a bit special in the sense that one will initially provide the means to secure it in the future. So I agree with Mr Ballo that we are going to have a more sustainable reindeer industry, but I totally disagree with him in the way he describes developments in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e733	I'm sorry, I have a script too! There are complex issues affecting the representative, Mr Ballo, in his interview with the Minister of Agriculture today, and, in my view, also quite unhealthy. But it is well that by putting the matter at the forefront you get to a debate. I have to say that despite being an elk myself and active in that environment, I find it particularly demanding to see the value in the comparison of meat withdrawals from elk and reindeer slaughter. These are very different animals and biotopes. The work of putting in place a sustainable reindeer farm in Finnmark has, as the Council of State has just explained, been a high priority for the red-green government. Exclusion sins from previous governments take a long time to correct. When the Government joined in 2005, a decision was taken quite quickly to give priority to the work on a new reindeer law, and a year later, the bill was presented to the Stortinget. Resource management, but also sanctions provisions, were central to the new law, and I believe that it balances in a good way the consideration of business autonomy with the overall obligation and responsibility of the State to ensure that the reindeer do not exceed the resource base. The Rein driftsgesetz was adopted in Stortinget in May 2007, and I note that the implementation takes time, although I know that the work has been prioritised in the department. The challenge now, as I see it, is that the administration follows closely the internal organization of reindeer operations, and pusher on where necessary. For example, in Alta, there is now a very demanding situation, which, in my view, must find its solution in that the areas that are at peace for reindeer operations remain at peace. This will be in line with the views of the local authorities on the matter. A Joint Nutrition Committee has repeatedly pointed out that it is important to stimulate increased slaughter and reduction of reindeer in overgrazing districts. The Committee has also supported the approach taken by the Government by laying down the slaughter weight to reduce the purity. Grants with conditions for recipients to comply with specific slaughter and production requirements are also very important measures that contribute to shifting focus away from subsidies and to production. Not least for animal welfare reasons, it is important that we do what we can to facilitate the most sustainable reindeer management. The fact that animals suffer because of lack of food is an entirely unacceptable situation. In my view, it is in everyone's interest that reindeer operations are carried out within a sound ecological, cultural and economic framework. I am therefore pleased with the Council of State's assurance that the Ministry will follow up on measures and instruments to ensure that the potential for increased slaughtering in the most critical areas can be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e748	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant and stress the importance of this debate. I would also like to highlight Olav Gunnar Ballo for the way he has worked for understanding and equal treatment in Finland for many years. I've had a parallel vision with Olav Gunnar Ballo in this area, but as everyone knows, neither one nor two swallows make a summer, but it's noticed that it's getting warmer. The grazing resource base for reindeer has been an ongoing debate for too long. It has to be mentioned that there are considerable variations in Finnmark’s status. There's a huge difference between what's happening in the West and what's happening in the Middle and East Finland. But the fact that there are differences – as we see today – suggests that we actually need to focus on the area where the problem is greatest, and that is westward. To illustrate this, a reference may be made to the fact that in many cases the slaughter weight of a year-and-a-half-year-old animal in the west is no higher than that of the calves in the east. It says something about the situation. It is obvious that the Western situation suggests that we have ended up in an ecologically evil circle where the grazing resource base fails, with the consequence that for weak Simlar feeds for weak calves – which again becomes a simple exchange for almost all predators. This is also reflected in claims for replacement for lost animals. We know that in a lot of snow or ice-covered fields, almost every year, there are almost unimaginable animal tragedies. The western shore is in danger of becoming a high mountain desert. This happens despite the fact that the Storting has decided that there will be no more than 64 100 animals in the area. All the statistics show that there have been 30,000 more animals there for the last 15 years almost every year. It is no exaggeration to say that there are no government officials of 15 years who have really cared. Finnmark is far from Oslo, which illustrates well. We have had 15 years of chatting – when will anyone take responsibility? We also have many conflicts about grazing and land policy. We've had it in Gargia in Alta, we've had it in Porsche, we've had it in Kvalsund, where you could get a lot of jobs, which Fefor and reindeer refused. We have it in Hammerfest, where residents of the municipality are not allowed to use ordinary outdoor paths. However, as the Progress Party sees it, there are several ways to go to solve the grazing resource problem. Quality and increased meat production must be stimulated at the expense of today's subsidy schemes, which strengthen the aid per year. the head principle. This policy is the direct reason why the number of animals is promoted at the expense of quality. Norway needs to introduce a model and renew the industry so that the industry is more in line with what is happening in Sweden and Finland, including Finland. to use a greater degree of stationary reindeer operations at the expense of nomadic operations on the west. This will lead to some feeding in winter but will promote quality, meat weight, production and income. Experience suggests that in case of nomadic operation a family of about one is needed. Two hundred animals to be able to live. In the case of stationary operation, the same family needs approx. 800 animals to do the same thing. And when we know that too many animals are the problem in the west, this is a sensible way to go. Different combined industries in the use of pure and dewy will also be easier to combine for the operating families in stationary operation. The clean-up management must clearly be separated from the industry. Today's situation indicates that this will be the goat and oat sack. Quality, objectivity and professionalism are losing the fight today, and the desire is for the largest number of animals and subsidies to win at the expense of grazing resources and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e769	We are facing quite major challenges in Finnmark, and there has also been a good deal of talk about north-eastern action. Then it's to think that some of the factors that may seem the most powerful into Finnmark, there's so little willingness to go into as you can see from this debate today. It is clearly illustrated by just a small community such as Nerve, where there is a need for a way out to conserve resources — and with considerable value creation also for the state, for Norway as a society — but then there is a conflict situation in which the type of activity is scarce. If you don't analytically go into it, if you don't analytically try to think about what it is that makes you unable to create more jobs in Finnmark, and what makes you unable to reverse the movement flow, that development will just continue. I can see a government council that gets indignant that from – I had almost said – you don't just get to hear that the government is doing a better job than the previous one, and that there's every reason to applaud it. The reason for this is that I sense a hollowness in the words of the Council of State according to the Council of State in relation to the fact that one takes hold of the facts. Of course, it's uncomfortable to have to deal with the reindeer industry and have to say that the policy that has been brought about now has been crazy; we have to do something about it, we have to change it. But it's actually the kind of expectations you could have for active politicians both at large and in government if we think we make a difference as individuals. Then we can't just say that we're flicking a little bit here and we're flicking a little bit there, but the conflicts we're leaving, because we don't want to bore anyone on the toes. That's kind of exactly what's going on in this industry. At the same time, the coast-finnmark fades. They lack access to resources, nor do they create resources precisely because conflicts arise that, through what the Storing has helped to adopt, and through what we have today, prevent the kind of industrial development in Finnmark. So much for reflecting on what you're talking about in relatively large letters, namely the North Region Initiative, that you probably should have gone into reality in a different way from what I feel the Council of State is willing to reverse this development and make reindeer operations sustainable, and also ensure that it doesn't conflict as much as it currently does with other industrial developments in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e778	Firstly, I would like to follow up the representative of Ballo in that he has presented this interpellation, and say that this is useful that we also discuss in the storeroom, although it is such that one might disagree with the opening of the case and at least in describing the facts of the case. So then you could put that in place. What's the danger of this kind of discussion is that you might also needlessly cultivate the contradictions between reindeer and other industries. I feel that the example of Nervej becomes a way of doing it that is completely impossible for anyone other than the interpellant to comment, in the sense that it is a matter in which a friend of mine has followed common rules in relation to the right of objection that the reindeer has, and that they obviously use, and that results from the laws and regulations that we have all been involved in adopting. With regard to the point that Ballo raises about the so-called hollowness of the argumentation, I just want to point out that a new reindeer law has been introduced quite recently. There are quite recent changes that one runs hard after, and one follows up the premises contained in the law. It is that through voluntary agreements, through the responsibility of reindeer management itself, and through the responsibility of reindeer districts, one will achieve the results that we all want. I fully agree with the representative of the Progress Party, who says that the problem is greatest in West Finland. The situation is very different in different parts, which I also tried to say in my post. In Varanger and the South, it's better. There we see that the reindeer districts have more clearly the task of finding internal cooperation that regulates the number of clean, and see it in relation to the grazing basis that exists. It is also true that, in some places in Finnmark, the grazing base is greatly improved – we have seen the result of the last – but not all places. Then to West Finland. Whether or not to have nomadic reindeer farms or stationary reindeer farms must be a matter that can be discussed in the reindeer pastures, but the starting point today is the operation we have now, and the reindeer areas themselves carry out. In the end, I want to say that when one discusses the challenges in Finnmark, it is important to have a slightly broader perspective than just the challenges you face in reindeer management. Then I think we should have a slightly different entry point, among other things. also better analyse the available options.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e793	The debate on substance is then closed. Three over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e807	In Document No: 8:43 for 2008-2009, a proposal from several representatives of the Progress Party on the necessary legislative changes is being made to ensure that the State Road Administration and other State actors pay a procedural fee in line with private actors. A majority of the Committee does not support the proposal of the Progress Party. According to the law, the Swedish Road Administration itself is responsible for the planning process that the municipality with the basis of the Planning and Building Act § 109 can charge for private plan proposals according to § 30 of the same law. Thus, the State Road Administration itself covers the costs up to the time when the municipality takes over the plan. In addition, it follows from the provisions of the Planning and Building Act on extensive cooperation obligations and rights between the municipality and the State Road Administration. The majority of the Committee considers that if this system is followed, it should initially not impose substantial procedural tasks on the municipality or costs of road plans promoted by the State Road Service in accordance with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e818	I don't want to appear here as the one who wants to charge several fees in the municipality and the one that is most expensive. However, I believe it is reasonable that the State Road Service covers the costs incurred by a municipality in dealing with plans submitted by the State Road Administration, in order to ensure that the offer of private operators is not reduced and that no discrimination is granted. If necessary, a system can be introduced whereby the municipality in question actually charges work on the plan according to the principle of self-sufficiency, so that you can clearly see what work has been done by the State Road Administration itself, and what has been done by the municipality in question. Such a scheme will also safeguard the interests of the State Road Administration, so that they do not pay a fee to the municipality for work they actually do themselves. I would like to point out that the municipalities, when dealing with private plans, may charge a procedural fee – and that can be certain that they do so too. I believe it is reasonable that the State Road Administration will itself cover the actual documented costs incurred by a municipality in dealing with plans submitted by the State Road Administration. The municipalities don't exactly have lighter times to meet. The reality is that the municipal proposition that came on Friday is disappointingly weak for the municipalities – in an already tough everyday life for the municipalities, where we know that municipal politicians are trying to turn each stone to make the economy go as far as possible. The government claims that municipalities get NOK 6.5 billion more, but it's far from reality. In that figure, the Government has included an increase in the package of measures and revised it. If we also take into account that county councils are given responsibility for the very worst roads in the country, reality is far worse than the government is trying to present it as. The consequences of imposing more tasks and new tasks on municipalities, where they cannot charge for the tasks they carry out, at their own expense, become worse for the primary tasks of municipalities, such as care for the elderly and schooling. The treatment confers substantial procedural tasks on the municipalities and locks the capacity and, in particular, additional costs are incurred. If necessary, there is a need to amend the law so that the State Road Administration and other State actors have to pay a procedural fee in line with all other actors. Finally, I would like to point out that the government parties, the county councillor and now the governor of the central bank are calling for the municipalities to take out the income potential of the municipalities. What do they think about then? Not to charge on the State Road Service — no, they think of property taxes, which are a much more unsocial tax that affects the weakest. There is no call from these actors. Then I will address the joint proposal from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e835	The representative Ib Thomsen has put forward the proposal to which he referred. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Carl I. Hagen reinstated here the president's office. [[Votation, see below]] After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e848	The size goes to voting. In Case No: 1, 2, and 3 do not have a voting theme. No. No. of vote. 4
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e856	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so that the State Road Administration may be charged a fee for the examination of draft plans. Where appropriate, the fee may be levied on the basis of the actual time spent in the municipality.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had set up: Document No 8:43 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-18.ana.ud276e876	Case No. 5, Unit, has already been processed. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
