ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e124	The representative of Trond Hellenic Republic shall apply for the extension of the period of leave granted until 28 February to be extended until 11 March. The President proposes that the application be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Beate Heieren Hundhammer, is proposed to continue to meet during the extended leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Silvia K. Kosmo from 9 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Tom Stroemstad Olsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e156	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Vidar Bjørnstad. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Vidar Bjørnstad are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e161	The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e164	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of the big business representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself to remove the accounting obligation for small foundations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e169	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e172	On behalf of the representatives of Per Sandberg, Bård Hoksrud, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I have the pleasure of promoting proposals to present its own big message on the strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e177	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e181	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Linda C. Hoftstad Helleland, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of a system that promotes a faster replacement of the oldest and most polluting cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e186	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e189	On behalf of the representative Inge Wohnung and myself, I would like to propose better healthcare where patients live.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e194	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e208	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Minister for Finance. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be three lines of response to statements by the Minister of Finance and the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e217	Now, when we're dealing with Innst. S. No 158 for 2008-2009, which deals with the allocation of capital contributions to the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund and the allocation for the operation of the Funds, it is gratifying to note that there is broad agreement on these two measures. We saw it during the discussion of the banking package last autumn, and we see it now when we in Stortingen deal with the Government's proposal to set up a financial fund and a bond fund, which proposes a capital contribution of SEK 50 billion for each of these two funds. The temporary funds are intended to make it easier for businesses and households to access loans and thereby contribute to stabilising the financial market. The aim of the State Financial Fund is to offer core capital to banks that initially meet the soundness requirements, thereby increasing the lending capacity. Similarly, the purpose of the sovereign bond fund is to contribute to increased liquidity and access to capital in the bond market in order to reduce the negative impact of the financial crisis on credit entry. When the credit package was presented, there was a positive reception from the opposition parties, and I think it was party leader Erna Solberg who said something like it was difficult to be against measures that the Right would have wanted. It is a strength that we can act together when there is a serious situation on the financial market internationally, and when we see that it is developing a serious and challenging situation also in Norway. As rapporteur of the case, I must again boast of all the parties in the committee, not least the opposition, who have acted in an orderly manner in terms of being constructive and helping to keep progress in order to bring the matter to an end in Stortinget. It is important that action can be taken as soon as possible when we see that the situation becomes increasingly serious. There is nothing to say on the progress when, on 10 February, we chose the case rapporteur and adopted a progress plan, and now on 26 February the matter was discussed in Stortinget and the piece of law at Odelstinget this evening. In just over two weeks, we have had two oral hearings in the form of a special consultation with the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Director of the Banking Authority, as well as a separate consultation with other relevant organisations. I also want to praise the constructive input made by the various hearing bodies. An overall committee is in line with the Government's proposal to grant funding. Then the opposition with varying connections has some own comments and three own suggestions. This is essentially a desire for the Storting to be informed. The Government is given powers in relation to both the proposed funds. It is therefore natural to find an appropriate way to report back to the Storting in terms of the activity and status of the management of these two funds. The other concerns issues relating to a review of the regulation of the financial market and not least how regulation in the financial and credit markets can be adapted to the challenges of a globalised economy. I expect the opposition parties themselves to justify their comments and proposals. On the part of the government parties, we have dealt with the same issues, but then in the form of a note. With regard to the Government's reporting to the Storting on the activities of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund, we propose that this be done through the annual credit notification submitted each spring. With regard to the proposals made by the opposition parties on the establishment of a professionally based sample or a banking commission, we refer to what has already been notified by the Minister of Finance. Governments have announced that they are working on a broad assessment of the scope of the financial market, where the creation of a Commission will be one of several measures. The red-green batches assume that the financial market is broadly based and that this work is not restricted to the banking sector only. The work is in progress, but I want to state in substance that both the government parties and the opposition parties think quite equally in this field. This is once again a confirmation that there is a great political gathering about the way to think. I would therefore recommend the position of the Financial Committee in the matter. As for the legislative proposals, we're going to come back to these at Odelstinget tonight's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e251	Prior to Stortinget's treatment of the first bank package of NOK 350 billion, there was close dialogue between bank managers and the government – also via SMS. It was later found that the banks were desperately in need of liquidity. In other words, the banks needed help from the state. During the debate on the banking package, the representative Jacobsen stated that it would not be right to impose conditions on directors’ salaries and bonuses to senior bank employees, because the liquidity provided by the State was made available on market terms. However, in the context of the credit package we are dealing with today, the Government chooses to impose terms and conditions in respect of wage and salary freezes and bonus payments. Does this mean that the representative Jakobsen believes that today's proposed credit package is not made on market terms, or is it really such that both packages have a risk-taking element on the part of the government, and that the government was wrong when it did not request a wage freeze even in the context of the first banking package?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e260	Let me first say that in the case of the first banking package, the usual commercial terms apply. I think it was party president Siv Jensen who said that this was an expensive arrangement for the banks – they paid in one penny and got ninety cents left. So over to today's credit package, which has a completely different device. It has a subsidy element in itself, which also conflicts with State aid law and the EEA. There are two different devices, and then you have to ask the question: if you give money on normal market terms, are you going to have to make demands in every context? This is an arrangement with a very clear subsidy element, where you go in with original capital or some kind of B-share capital, and then we do the same thing to a lot of other countries when they go in and strengthen their soundness to increase their loans. Then you get into a completely different position, and it's reasonable to set conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e267	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e270	The issues we are dealing with today, first in Stortinget and then in Odelstinget – and they are closely related to each other – aim to strengthen financial stability and facilitate the provision of credit to enterprises and households. Last summer, it was already clear that, as a result of the international economic turmoil, challenges in the area of raising capital were reported by several teams. As the Progress Party sees it, a credit package with its purpose is perhaps one of the most important measures to return to more normal conditions in the Norwegian economy, and in order to be able to see better times in the long term and thus secure jobs, create new jobs for those affected, and reduce the notified increase in unemployment. The fact that the government has spent such a long time putting these tools into place, I think should be the basis for criticism. But that being said, I note at the same time that the measures being promoted receive broad support. It's positive. The size of the case has also dealt with the matter extremely quickly, as the rapporteur pointed out, and thus contributed to the relatively rapid implementation of the measures. I expect, and I expect, that the Government, in parallel with the treatment of Stortingen, has worked with the necessary regulations on how to implement the schemes. The establishment of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund means that the Stortinget provides the Government with wide powers for the further development of legislation and conditions relating to the funds, as well as the activities. Therefore, the Progress Party considers it perfectly natural that the Government regularly informs the Storting about its activities as well as the status of the management of the Fund’s resources. The fact that the majority provide information through the credit notification will mean that the Storing will receive little continuous and regular information. So I hope that the Government, regardless of the majority's comment, sees the sense that the Storting is being oriented somewhat more frequently. I also hope that the Council of State may make any comments related to this when she will have the floor later today. I think at least it makes sense when you have a case that brings together such a broad majority, that even in the minority we feel that we will then get the information that is necessary in the future. In examining the banking package for a few months back, the Progress Party proposed limits on management wages and dividends if an entity used the arrangement. We were then alone about setting such conditions. The fact that government and government parties now come up with such restrictions, despite harsh criticism of such a measure only a few months ago, is good – and necessary. Two bank packages/credit packages have so far been necessary to get the credit market back on track. It is also time to look at whether the rules and regulations in the financial sector have had the right arrangements. The solution is hardly more regulation, but more regulation. Regulations must not be too open to political discretion and short-term political gains. Financial markets are integrated across borders and harmonisation of legislation may be necessary internationally. The Progress Party therefore wants to set up a Banking Commission in the first place to investigate the weaknesses of the system and the areas in which the system should be improved. We are proposing this. Such work also looks at the measures that should be implemented to ensure stability in the future. The Committee has carried out a consultation on the package submitted. I find that the instruments are being widely used, both among those who are going to market the capital and among our financial institutions. At the same time, several reasonable points have been made through consultation and input to the Committee. I therefore hope that the Government looks closely at the recordings that have been made, and takes these into account when launching the credit package, so that you ensure that the package actually gets the effect that we all want, and that all parts can benefit from the measures. I would therefore just like to refer to what is in the minority form, which refers to some of the adjustments that should be in the government's remit, in order to reach out to everyone. For the Progress Party, it is important that the scheme be designed in such a way that it can benefit the entire spectrum of Norwegian businesses, not only the largest enterprises, although it is of course also of great importance that large Norwegian enterprises can now have a number of solutions in place, in view of the future. The Advance Party gives its support to the package submitted, both in the case we are dealing with in Stortinget now and in the case we are going to deal with later this evening in Odelstinget. I would like to address the verbal proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e293	The representative Ulf Leirstein has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e296	Let me also express joy over the broad consensus that is in this matter. It is important because it creates predictability and greater market security. There is every reason to give credit to the Minister of Finance for listening both to the opposition's input and not least to the assessments made by market players. It is important that instruments where you play with the market are now found and that you are busy building bridges to a situation where the market is more functioning in the normal way. I am also pleased that the Minister of Finance has unequivocally stated that the establishment of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund should not be the start of a new state bank. I agree with the Minister of Finance that the State does not have the competence to conduct banking activities, and that these instruments should be temporary, precisely to bridge to a more normal situation. Only a few comments on the proposals and comments made by the Right with other opposition parties: one relates to the State pension fund. We are committed to facilitating the use of the scheme by savings banks, both traditional savings banks and basic fund evidence banks. We also have our own comment together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which relates to dividends, where we very strongly stress that the restrictions that are being imposed should be professionally justified – in other words, not politically, but professionally. The main reason for this is that we need to ensure that the banks using the State Financial Fund can move out into the ordinary equity market as quickly as possible and raise equity in the usual way. The stronger the constraints, the longer the period they will work, the harder it will be to return to a normal situation. So we're stressing that you have to be careful about setting absolute limits. We also stress that restrictions must be limited in time, and that this is particularly important in terms of basic fund certificates. Let me also add that we are concerned that the bond fund of the State must have sufficient flexibility and room for action, so that significant players in Norwegian business are not excluded from the scheme. I am aware that the ministry has stressed that there will be no absolute limit to the investment rate requirement for the bonds in which it is invested. On the right, we are committed to stress that there must be room for action and flexibility, so that we do not have too severe restrictions on the bonds in which the bond fund can invest. When we want such a space of action and such flexibility, it is justified that the sovereign bond fund should invest with other actors, so that the state does not take risks alone, but together with others. With this I will address the proposals that the Right is promoting with other parties or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e312	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e315	This seems to be a debate as effective in time as the one we had in committee! I'm not going to drag the debate any further than necessary. The debate will take place first and foremost when we get to Odelstinget. This applies only to the appropriations. In connection with the proposal that Jan Tore Sanner made, to put down a sample to look at the regulation of the Norwegian financial and credit market, I might imagine challenging the Minister of Finance to say a little about how we are now working from the Norwegian side in relation to the international work going on to look at the regulations that might seem necessary in the back of the financial crisis we are now in. We know, of course, that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has been far ahead in the debate with various proposals, and that there is also work going on in the United Nations. It might be interesting to hear what positions Norway is taking in that arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e324	The reason why, with these grips, we invest more core capital in the banks and make sure that more bonds are placed, is that we want to lend more money to the Norwegian business community to enable them to implement the necessary transitions that these crisis times call for, get more people to work, get businesses to be converted as quickly as possible, so that when the rise times come, they are ready with more environmentally friendly solutions, with clear solutions for a new future that will enable them to operate sustainably in the time to come. That's also another reason. In the evening post today, we can read that ordinary people are now sitting in a dormitory. They would like to buy a new house, but they will not sell their old home because the banks are not willing to lend money to others who want to enter the housing market. I have a family that would like to buy into the housing market right now, because it is right now, or during this year, it would make sense to buy a new home – not a year ago, when everyone got a loan. But now, unfortunately, less loans. It's harder to get a loan. Therefore, they are not given the opportunity to purchase into the housing market. This creates a inertia that also affects the industry. But what we're doing is subsidizing the banks. We subsidize the banks to make them do what we want. That is why this should also be subject to studies and approval and as far as possible from ESA. It's necessary to do it because what we're doing is some kind of state aid. In other words, we pay the banks to run the bank, and that's kind of funny. When we're through this crisis, we need to see what we can do to avoid getting back into this position. If not, it's going to be a call to the banks to do the same next time we have these big fluctuations, that's that in time they lend out money like just Christmas, and in times of recession they tighten in, and we're going to have to set up with core capital for them to get them to borrow out. This also shows that the free-flowing market system of which the Progress Party was a member and which the right-hand side has driven both in Europe and in the rest of the world had an obvious weakness, namely that it acted destabilising and cocyclical rather than stabilising and countercyclical. Here we need to ensure that we get a broad review, as the Minister of Finance has also warned, in order to avoid getting back into such a position. We had some comments on this when we discussed Basel II legislation in the committee. We saw that the consequences of banks being allowed to investigate and assess the type of capital adequacy rules they should have, through advanced risk systems, would be that it would be cheaper for banks to borrow money, which would already contribute to an additional lending wave in a situation where it was already alerted and warned against this, among other things. from the credit supervision here in Norway. There was one thing that we in the committee said clearly about: we're skeptical about this, we see the negative consequences of this. But we couldn't fail to accept it, simply because it would put our Norwegian savings banks and Norwegian banks in a worse position than the banks that are driven from abroad and that operate in the Norwegian market. In other words, the freed-up market, some of which has been more skeptical, has helped to create the crisis we are in now, helped to do what is absolutely necessary and right by us, and which is supported by a broad majority in the Storting, namely to pay the banks to run the bank, because without it, Norwegian business will not manage. Then it will go later on with conversion, and there will be more people suffering. And we can't have any of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e342	I registered that the representative Holmås had a housing price analysis and concluded with a great degree of security that it was just now right to buy a new dwelling. That's an interesting conclusion and an interesting analysis. This means that housing prices won't fall in the future, and they'll be higher in two months, they'll be higher in two years. Then my question, which probably many others also wonder: What is the representative Holmås building this analysis and this conclusion that housing prices are right now on the bottom?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e347	I guess I didn't say it strictly. I said well that now or during the year that comes, the housing prices will probably be at the bottom. I guess that's what the SSB is saying. They say that the housing prices will fall another 10 pst. But what's the truth is that it's cheaper to buy now than it was a year ago, when prices have fallen significantly in the time that has passed. And it's absurd to see that home buyers last year got a lot of loans from the banks, while they don't now get loans from the banks, even if it's going to be a trickier time. I also believe Gjermund Hagesetter and I agree on what is Kurt in Erlend Loe's simple analysis, namely that it is wise to buy cheap and sell expensive. Then it is at least stupid to buy when it is very expensive, and it is certainly stupid not to have the opportunity to buy when it is cheaper. What's the problem with the housing market is that it's a huge lottery for young people; whether you've made a wise investment or not depends on the time you buy in. We need more stability in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e352	I thought I would return from the development of the housing market until the matter arose. I very much agree with the representative Holmås when he initially says that we are now adopting a scheme that enables companies to have more capital to make the necessary adjustments in a difficult time and create new jobs. I totally agree with him on that. Does that mean that the representative Holmås also believes that we should take action so that the companies themselves can generate more of the capital they have, i.e. that they can retain more of their capital through, for example. a lower tax on enterprises, and not least those which create Norwegian enterprises, namely the owners? I guess that should really be the result of the first reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e359	We've given a clear message that we're busy having a fair tax on people, and then it comes to taxing the wealth as an important part of it. We believe that we have established a good and reasonable arrangement, both with regard to the property tax and with regard to the inheritance tax, which I know that Svein Fletten disagreed with me and the government parties in. But I believe this has been right. At a time when the state is setting up banks, companies, for example: through the tax system that we have now jointly adopted in the context of the crisis package, people who know that the Community's money goes to these measures must know that we have a fair tax. If there's one thing that's created distrust in the United States, it's just that the people who enjoyed the best of the first crisis packages, got on the plane and went on expensive spasms. This created great distrust as to whether this was actually a package that benefited everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e366	I realized that the article was about predicting the future of the housing market. In the reply to Hageseter, it was more about predicting the past. I think the last one is a simpler exercise than the first one. But until today's issue is the injection of capital. It is a question of which banks will have access to this capital. As the representative Holmås knows, there has been a question, among other things. the extent to which savings banks can benefit from this capital injection. Does Holmås feel confident that this will benefit the entire banking industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e373	Just to take what this case is about – I believe that the housing market is one of the important parts of this. The fact that we add more money to the banks and enable them to borrow more money will help the 10,000 people who are now in a housing trap by buying one dwelling and sitting with another dwelling. That means that several of my siblings and I were about to say that my generation and my siblings will get loans from the banks and buy in. That's why it's actually part of what the matter is about. As regards the possibility for all banks to participate in this, all the measures we have taken, both in the first package and in the context of this package, are different in the banking market, because the banking market looks different. We have a huge bank, DnB NOR, which sits with half of the loan, we have a small foreign part, and we have savings banks, which account for a lot. The aim of these packages is to embrace the widest possible range. If we don't succeed in that, we've been very clear about saying that then we'll come back and follow up and make sure that all the banks get the benefit of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e382	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e386	In this debate, I will stick to commenting on the comments in this position and giving some views on the further work to change the functioning of financial markets from speculation to a necessary adjustment for the real economy. The Minister of Finance has announced that it is working on a broad assessment of the scope of the financial market, where the creation of a Commission will be one of several actions. This Commission was in favour of setting up the Centre early, a Commission composed of people with different opinions on economic policy and also from different disciplines, where history, science and humanities had to be included. Such a Commission, with which alternative economic environments are also invited, could be a first step to ensure that today's growth is decisive in breaking down too one-sided an economic trade union environment in Norway. We need greater diversity and more ongoing debate on different solutions. The crisis is not over, and in order to deal with the crisis further, it is important that we have a cant above the situation. Where does the road go after the crisis? The financial crisis must lead to a new debate on globalisation and on economic growth is an absolute good. The current economic crisis is due to a serious failure of the market system. George Soros believes that the most striking feature of the current financial crisis is that it is not caused by an external shock, for example. from OPEC, but that the crisis was generated by the system sea. It arose in the United States, at the heart of the world's financial center and the source of much news in this area. That is why the crisis is global and it creates a globalised crisis. The failure of the market system occurred at several levels. Institutionally, banks changed from service providers to gambling casinos. However, they did so because both the seas, the supervisory authorities and the politicians, who run the supervisory authorities, gave in to what the economic elite calls the hypothesis of effective markets. It is based on the belief that the continuous underselling of assets was impossible in financial markets and that the need for supervision was thus low. The crisis also points to a moral failure: a debt-based system. At the bottom of the moral failure lies the worship of growth for the sake of growth, rather than as a path to the good life. The theological language could have revealed the credit bubble as “sin’s wages” — wages earned for an amazing waste. It didn't happen. There is a fragmented debate on this in some areas today. We have had a discussion in Norway about structured products. It is alarming to learn that the head of the Banking Complaints Department, Viggo Hagstrøm, said earlier that it was too complicated to go into. It's a warning for us when we design the code. Similarly, discussion is taking place on hedge funds, for example, internationally. In an NTB communication on 23 February, Mr Flassbeck, former Secretary of State of the German Ministry of Finance, said: Is there really a need for hedge funds? And he goes on to say, "We can't shut down the international gambling casino" without going into whether there is a need for such products. The situation we're in now raises questions about the speed and direction of progress. Will there be a pause for reflection, or will we continue as before after a race of minor adjustments? In my opinion, the main source of instability in financial markets is maritime. John Maynard Keynes developed the most convincing justification that financial markets are not effective in the sense that the theory of efficient markets presupposes. What the economy needs if it is to get a grip on the behaviour of the real world is a new starting point. It has to accept that changing the world prevents people from having sufficient information to always make contracts at the right price. Such a change is a necessary prerequisite for a lasting political change. The battle will be about the role of the nation-state in the globalised economy of the future, for the nation-state is the main administrator and protector of the values and traditions of the globalised market. If we are to have an orderly system, globalisation must be made more effective and acceptable. The benefits of globalisation are real, but they have been exaggerated. The economy must be brought together with ethics by asking the question, What is the meaning of wealth? The good life was originally to live in harmony with nature and our fellow human beings. Both the financial crisis, the climate crisis and the food crisis are now intertwined, and not least in the financial crisis, one must also facilitate a solution to the main challenges related to climate and food issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e410	Let me first just point out the great paradox in that a party that loves to spend more money on most, now declares that economic growth should not be so important. What I want to tackle, on the other hand, is Lundtigen's settlement of globalisation. Because it's a fact that the economy is globalized. Then there's two ways to deal with this. One is an increased degree of protectionism; the other is that politics must follow the economy. I am a member of the latter, which is why I am also a member of a Norwegian membership of the European Union, and believe that in other areas too, more attention should be paid to ensuring that the policy follows the economy. Is it so to understand that the representative Lundtigen thinks more in the direction of protectionist measures? Because, as I said, it's a fact that the economy is globalized, and then I can't read Lundtigen differently than that it's protectionism that is his answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e417	The centre party's view of economic growth is, as former centre party leader and bishop Gunnar Stålsett elegantly formulated it: growth is no more to consume, but to manage better. In my speech, I pointed out that the benefits of globalisation of the economy are real, but they are strongly exaggerated. What is needed now, and to which I invited, is that different disciplines discuss the causes of the crisis, and what are the means out of the crisis. One of the points I pointed out was that as the understanding of economics is today, it does not take into account that the players do not have sufficient knowledge of the market, and that is why we get an erroneous pricing, as we have seen of those real values that have gained a value today that is heavenlyly lower than a short time ago. We're facing an obvious system problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e422	That the effect of globalisation is exaggerated, I think mildly said there will be different perceptions about. Norway has built its prosperity and prosperity on international trade. Millions of the world's poorest are promised out of poverty because they have been allowed to participate in international trade and become part of the globalised market. Those who are left in poverty are those who have not been involved in global trade. Then I am in favour of clear guidelines, trade must be regulated and policy must follow the economy. But I get no answer from Lundtegen on what is his solution to the challenges he points out. As I said, there are two ways to go: one is to say that the economy is globalized, then the policy must follow. The second is to go in the direction of more traditional center party attitude, which is protectionism. I want to challenge Lundtigen in what way he wants to go: politics follows the economy, or protectionism.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e427	What today's financial crisis shows is that a globalised economy based on the gambling casino principles that today turns out to be bankrupt cannot be forward-looking, seagoing in itself, but further on from the fact that you cannot have such a free international economy without having international institutions that have such strong economic power and influence that they can take responsibility and correct the weaknesses of the system. What we are seeing today is that the problems of the globalised economy and the financial crisis are largely solved through national action packages and national activities, because the international institutions are not close to having the capacity to remedy the weaknesses of their own system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e432	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e435	The size discusses an attitude where consensus is great in all the important questions. Nevertheless, there will be a debate. The Financial Committee is even able to discuss theological issues in this context, and then there is, of course, a basis for debate. I would first like to add some careful comments to the representative Holmås – who is otherwise nice to have back in debate mode in Stortinget after sickness absence – in terms of the housing situation and the housing market. All the treatment of this case has shown that in the national effort we now have for Norwegian financial systems and banks, some of the banks' main contributions are their professional competence in credit ratings. It has been clear from all sides, including government teams, that banks will continue to take care of it, and the banks must be as strict and as competent in their credit rating as they have been in the past. The problem for some is that the fall in housing values makes it a different credit rating. People who had housing values and were in a situation where they were able to handle two mortgages have, of course, come into a desperate situation. It's probably not like what we're dealing with today, it just solves the problem, because the banks are going to have the same credit rating, and it's going to be different in situations with different values than it is now. It's probably a dilemma and a problem that many people have to deal with, but where you've got significant help through falling interest rates, which is of course crucial. So what we're discussing today, and what's the main headlines. Of course, it is easy to pull out pages of this and have fun with it, but I think the representative Lundteg is on some important issues in what he mentions. Because there is no doubt that with the experiences we now have with the global economy on the move, with all the actors who thought that now we were able to run so fast that people could fly, and then to say go on the whim, we need to stop and see what we can learn from this. Because nothing is perfect, at least not the market economy and how the global economy works. So here we need to learn, and then we see what we're learning. I have the basic idea that a more global economy, as we have, is calling for more global policy. And that must be an important answer. Economy without a political framework will always end, and much attention should be paid to it. The central bank manager has on several occasions, including: in the meeting with the Committee, expressed that textbooks will be rewritten in the future following the experience gained now, and that a generation will be written doctorates and research on what is happening precisely in these days, in the same way that is being done today about the crash in 1929 and the crisis in the 1930s. That is, of course, good and important. I am concerned that we should learn something in our generation, for example. in view of operational interventions during the next major period, ensuring that the next time the economy faces adversity and crisis, through legislation and knowledge, we are better able to meet it, for the sake of all people who are now suffering from the global crisis. It draws attention to what I do not want to call disagreement in today's setting, but what the opposition can do about operational grips in a setting where there is a broad consensus about what we are going to do, namely to ask for further advice, get a real dialogue and get information to Parliament about what is now being done on an ongoing basis. Because it is clear that there are quite radical powers conferred on the Government by the law to deal with this. There's a pile of pussies in the back, and later today it's a few things. It's kind of a contract written between position and opposition that then we're going to have a process, and we're going to have information and we're going to have the opportunity to really be involved in what we want to do today. The opposition does this, of course, by making proposals – these are the instruments we have – but I think there would be a significant contribution if the Minister of Finance in his post after me signed out and said that it should be. I had such an experience early in the 1990s when I was on the Financial Committee with Sigbjørn Johnsen as Minister of Finance, who was able to bring the whole Stortinget in an eye-catchingly good way, by providing information and inviting to participate in the processes. I hope that the Minister of Finance has not intended to be worse than his predecessors for some pastors. Next week, the Financial Committee will then meet with Spanish financial authorities and politicians on an important study trip to Spain. Spain has done things a little differently through its regulation, and it will also be interesting for the Finance Committee to be able to learn from it. That I think is a situation most should be concerned about: how can we get better and learn from this, even in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e450	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e453	I have to admit that I have a little more faith than what Lars Sponheim has, that the grips we are now doing will actually contribute to a greater movement in the housing market. Let's say this: I've moved a lot more times in my life than Lars Sponheim has, all the time he's lived on his beautiful farm in the beautiful Ulvik. Then what you do is you buy before you sell. We have now had a market that has gone from buying before selling to selling before buying. Clearly, it creates a huge brake in the whole situation in the housing market. The fact that the banks – and I know this from my own experience when I have asked for loans in the bank – have gone from saying that you accept from four to five times the income in the loan, to be strict and to say that no, we only give three times the income in the loan, makes a good number of people who were previously loaned, now no longer get a loan. It creates the inertia of the housing market that we now see. And there we see that in the housing market we have one thing: there we have the House Bank as a counter-cyclical instrument. We are missing that instrument in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e460	There is nothing I hope and want more than that those who have problems today and are locked down, for example. with two homes because you do not get rid of one, you can solve your problems. But we're not going to be blind because some of the problems have fallen in housing value and hence insecurity, and the development of the entire housing market. In the hearings that we hold, among other things, having been in the committee, we have just received insurance from a lot of banks where they say that to the private market and to the housing market, loans function as before, but with the same credit rating as before. Unfortunately, then, there is a part that is being assessed differently and thus has a problem. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the main purpose of what we are doing today is to solve the problems of companies, not least large companies, in redeeming bonds. More than DKK 100 billion will be redeemed in debt securities this year, and that is what must be the main purpose of the good decisions taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e470	Hans Olav Syversen – in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e473	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e478	Yeah, I guess that's the first time I'm taking a line on Mr. Sponheim, in the spirit of the centermates, but it was probably time. I was a little fascinated that Sponheim said he believed in the globalized economy. But then he added a sentence that I thought was interesting, that it also called on a more globalized political framework. I know that, sir. Sponheim is more or less in the mind box. But was there any indication here as to what position Lars Sponheim would fall on when it comes to the EU question? He also mentioned Spain, otherwise, so I think the question is further relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e485	No, there wasn't such a signal in it. But there was a clear signal that this global economy, usually called turbocapitalism, we've been experiencing some years now, requires a global policy. It makes our global institutions, in my opinion, have to function better, become stronger, get more muscles to handle it – be a type of world bank, the IMF, to intervene. But it is also about cooperation across national borders, between national states, in order to achieve better functioning legislation. I think that if, for example, British and American banks had faced the same regulatory regime as Norwegian banks, the situation would have been much better and not so that large parts of banking systems are completely out of policy. So we need better cooperation, coordination, knowledge dissemination between nation states and a much stronger world society to deal with things. We should, at my discretion, for example. has had a global competition oversight. I hope for a quick WTO agreement, and then we get back to how we solve the regional issues – from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e492	This is probably also my first line, at least in this magnification period, on Mr. Sponheim. I do it to express my enthusiasm for what I perceived as a signal. I understand that the representative Sponheim will not use this pulpit today to present his EU position. However, I do believe that Sponheim and I think quite equally in this area, because when you are a member of the market economy and globalisation, it is also absolutely necessary that there be international rules of play for the market with good control mechanisms, in other words, that policies follow the economy. Taking this into account, it is quite close to expressing a view that the model chosen by the EU is a sensible model, namely that policy follows the economy regionally, and that it would be a right step for Norway to participate in such a community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e497	In the absence of disagreement in the vote, I understand that we can discuss a lot, both EU matters and theology, in the Financial Committee. Nevertheless, I would like to acknowledge both to the representative Sanner and to the representative Syversen, who would like to discuss with me, that I was at least aware when I heard on the radio this morning a political analysis of our colleagues from the Progress Party here in the Chamber, who defined the political left side in Norway to include everyone, including the Right. As I have heard that there is a living culture of debate on the political left in Norway, I think that we are now seeing a consequence of this political analysis also here in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e502	The cord shift is over. We intend to go back to the track and the matter is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e507	I think it must be allowed to rejoice over everyone – what to say – new tones that the debate on the financial crisis and action against it bring us. There's a lot of bad news out there, and if the Storting can help cheer us up a little bit between us, I think that's wise. We could use those forces to move on. Let me start out a little bit in the big world, because I got a question from the representative Syversen about it. Many have been concerned with these global issues and how we should ensure that we have both global institutions, rules of play, driving rules and legislation that will prevent a financial crisis of this magnitude from happening again. Everyone has now seen that the market does not regulate itself. All fundamentalist market liberals see in one way only that their own airlock has evaporated in front of their eyes. That's what's our big challenge for the future: to make sure that we have these rules in place. If I am to congratulate the representative of Sponheim on this EU debate, there is at least one point that is important, and that is that the EU is too small. This crisis started initially in the United States. It has an impact on countries around the world. Of course, what the European Union can do about it is important, but we are in a globalised world economy that has ring-fences far beyond what we can solve ourselves. And it is also right, as the representative Lundtägen pointed out, that all countries are now embarking on national measures to combat the effects of the financial crisis. The proposals on the table here today are national measures, ‘protectionist’ in such a way that they are linked to Norwegian enterprises and their issue of debt securities, they are linked to Norwegian banks. That's what all countries do, and it's of course because we don't have global institutions that can do that job. But it also says something about our vulnerability, because we're so heavily dependent on what other countries are taking, that Obama succeeds, that the proposals they're making in the United States are comprehensive enough for us to get through this too. But we're also dependent on a global economy that works, because we've had a lot of benefits from an international trade. The adventurous growth we've had for five years has just been because we've been in the midst of a world economy. Of course, we notice that when the prices of our goods go down, they're not on the big heights, etc. So we are a country that has extreme self-interest in contributing to common rules and that it should be exchanged not only in views and analyses, but in actions for the future, so that similar things do not happen again. Then I would like to reply to the representative of Syversen that I am trying to find an opportunity to invite the Stortinget to participate in a discussion on what initiatives Norway should now take internationally, what we might be able to do further in that area, so that Norway's small but nevertheless powerful voice can contribute to it. There's a lot of exciting going on, for example. in the case of tax havens, which we have not been in the vicinity of putting any pressure on before, because tax havens are not only paradises for those who want to hide taxes but also for those who want to hide the ownership structure of companies. Many have pointed out that this is a major problem and part of the crisis analysis. There is also a lot of discussion about international risk assessment guidelines, for rating and for supervision — too much of this makes sense. There is a long debate on this matter tonight, and I will then come back to many of the questions that have been raised. But I just want to take a few more moments. These are measures where we use the expertise that banks have. And in Norway it's very much about savings banks, it's half the market, and commercial banks, it's very much DnB NOR – they're dominant in that area. They have a competence to assess risks to individual enterprises and individual projects that we use. Today is not in the hands of the state. Well, we can build that up. It may well be that it is an important part of the summary of this crisis, what kind of competence we should have in this future. But what we depend on now is to get these banks to close out capital to the companies that need to finance profitable projects, or those that need refinancing. Then I'll come back tonight with further views on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e534	I record that the Minister of Finance had a visit to market librarians, and then I actually felt hit. That is to the extent of a long debate that we would like to take, but in a line change it is not possible. But what I find out is that both the bank package and this credit package are largely based on using the instruments that are also in the market. And how does it harmonize with what is alleged to be the views of the Minister of Finance and the SV? You do not nationalise banks – you offer some loans and capital on terms, etc., so you use some of the market mechanisms. It is also an argument, for example: from the first banking package, which would not be subject to conditions, because it was thought that these would be pure market conditions. How does this harmonize with the views of the SV leader and the finance minister in relation to the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e540	It harmonizes perfectly. Because in such a time of crisis as we are now, you have to look at point 1: what is the problem? The problem is that there is no financing or refinancing of profitable projects, in particular those companies that financed themselves either in the bond market or outside, not through banks. Point 2: What kind of instruments do we have that we can quickly set in motion to fight it? Then it's the banks we have per cent. currently competent to assess individual enterprises and projects, which must be used. For the State does not have that competence per today. It's incredibly important that we take a practical look at it. Because if we weren't concerned that the measures we're taking quickly were going to work, and that they can be started quickly, the price of the higher unemployment, the bigger problems for Norwegian businesses and jobs, and the social impact for most people who are totally unsocialistic. I can assure the representative. So the difference between these measures and the previous ones. These kinds of measures that we are now talking about, about preferential capital, and which are linked to the State Financial Fund, are State aid. It is not illegal state aid, but it is measures that we need to clear up with ESA in order to be sure of this is within the framework. We now have a significant job ahead of us in finding the balance in relation to the pricing of these instruments. But the previous package was not near state aid. There is no country that has attached the kind of conditions that the Progress Party, in a populist curvature, came up on in the previous round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e547	As opposed to Mr. I did not feel that the so-called market liberalist airlock should have cracked. The Minister of Finance knows that the Right has always been a strong supporter both of globalisation and of the market economy, but also that there should be international rules of trade, that policy should follow the economy. We do not want this to ensure primary political governance, but to ensure that competition is real and to ensure good consumer protection. When the Minister of Finance says that the measures are national, there is a truth to quite a change, because there is a lot going on in international cooperation now. The G20 has, among others: established that the market economy and globalisation are part of the solution. Norway has to approve its solutions in ESA, and that shows that the EU system is working. There would be a great risk for both Norway and other countries if a fierce competition were to take place now to have the strongest national measures to protect their own markets, which could quickly affect the smallest countries, such as Norway. So the ESA and the approval there are a good example of the system working.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e554	We are not close to having global instruments in relation to the challenges we face, and the vast majority of effective packages are national. In other areas, for example: Very poor international coordination. Take, for example: This whole round we had about depository guarantees, where EU countries broke — each their way — and there was a lack of coordination. So I have to say that we have to have much greater ambitions for what international rules we're going to put in place in the wake of this financial crisis than we've been able to see now. It's true that there are decision points from the G20 and from around where you have ambitions, but switching it into actually obligating action is going to be a long way to go. There's no other way to do it than to try to get it done. The discussion now, around both the IMF, the EU itself can take the initiative and the G20 comes with, is incredibly important, and it is important that we are on the road there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e559	I would like to thank you for your answer in relation to more international rules of play that we see may be necessary to reinforce beyond the current crisis. The finance minister mentioned different venues where the work is now going on — or we might say where the ideas are going. And I think the Storting will be very interested in interacting with the Government about this. There are different venues that we can participate in. But I'm a little out to hear where the finance minister and the government now sees it most relevant for Norway to participate. What are the areas where the Government believes Norway can contribute? And where does the Government think it is most important that this discussion should now take place to ensure that actual results are obtained, as the Minister of Finance himself was involved in?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e564	In the case of tax havens, or financial paradises, which are actually a better word, international cooperation has been taking place on this for a long time. There we work with the other Nordic countries to establish transparency agreements with one tax haven after another, and we also participate in international arenas, where we have seen a change of pace, for example. It is now time to discuss whether to coordinate sanctions against nations and countries which act as tax havens and which refuse transparency. In this area, there are good cooperative constellations. We're active and completely in front, and we're now changing this. Compared to the significant international institutions, I think the IMF is going to be an important and central player in this. Of course, it depends on all countries, including us, contributing to the current discussions. We are not a G20 country, but we have influence over the participating countries and the Nordic countries, and for example. The United Kingdom has good relations on the issues that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e573	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e591	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e607	Nothing is like a good tax debate, for anyone. This is a proposal from four Right-wing Representatives. The aim is to reduce a professionally based sample to assess the dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. As a letter from the Minister of Finance has been received, a separate selection, set up in the Ministry of Finance with representatives from there and from the SSB, will go through one of the same. The majority refer to this as its justification for not wanting to adopt the proposed representative. I'm assuming that the majority will explain it in more detail. In the case of the minority, there is an overall opposition that could imagine that we got such a professional sample, also because of course we also see that there is a lot of professional substance on the ground. But we've also got quite a lot of input, both nationally and internationally, and various studies that show that there can be good proceeds by making different tax changes in this context. The entire Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agrees on the main task of the tax system, namely to provide revenue to the public for the financing of well-being, to be redistributive and equalising, and to contribute to the efficient and sustainable use of society's resources. It is worth noting that there is a broad majority of those who support the main principles of the tax system and who do provide a basis for saying that there will still be a relatively broad consensus on the basic principles of the Norwegian tax system in the future. Through such a sample, we want to assess how the tax system can have a positive impact on, for example, the tax system. the job offer. It is also generally believed that this has an effect. We think from the recordings we've been given, that there could be a good basis for getting this to be explained in more detail. In addition, we also assume that there is reason to believe that there will be effects related to the provision of work by, for example, changes in fees. That is why the minority also wants to introduce it as a mandate to the committee which unfortunately is not reduced. We do not doubt the competence of the Department and the Statistical Central Bureau. However, we believe that it would be of great value that representatives of different trade unions are supplemented by representatives of, for example, the trade unions. The Ministry of Finance and the SSB, to look at what can be done to improve the tax system we have – in fact, we believe that there are some potential for improvement – so that tax policies are considered in such a way that the system becomes as effective as possible and that, in sum, tax revenue can actually increase in the long term. I'll bring up the minority proposal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e624	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e627	The private proposal we are going to discuss and vote on today is essentially whether we are going to reduce a sample to look at the dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Finance stated that a working group with participants from the Ministry of Finance and the SSB had already been set up, as the rapporteur explained, to look at the various dynamic effects that have budgetary relevance, i.e. a broader approach to dynamic effects. The parties to the Government therefore consider a new sample unnecessary and therefore vote against the Right-wing proposal. We also disagree with the Right starting point. The opposition seems to have more faith in dynamic tax effects than what we in the government parties have. This is one thing where we find an ideological distinction between the right-hand and the left-hand sides. In the comments, we find rather more moderate wording than previous debates have been marked, and that is good. It is enough to go back to the record of the Grand Summit on 20 June in the debate on the revised budget. That debate was not very elucidating for the voters, if any of them were to be concerned about what is in the little popular concept of ‘dynamic fiscal policy’. That debate was marked by what I would call a classic skin debate. Does dynamic tax policy mean that one krone given in tax bills returns at least the same amount in the form of increased tax revenue? Means that one penny given in tax bills gives no gain in increased tax revenue, but only 100 pst. loss? Or does that mean that a certain share of the krona is due to the government in tax revenue? My impression is that we can now get together about the last option, as opposed to earlier where some on the right have claimed that you can get the same thing or more from the state than the tax relief has cost. The reason for the debate at the time, and probably also this Right-wing proposal, was a report by the SSB that showed that lower taxes can trigger increased labour supply, especially if it goes to the low-paid. This effect contributes to slightly more than 20 pst. the tax relief but returns to the country in the form of increased tax revenue. Thus, the tax relief cost is less than 100 pst. The other increases in income described by the SSB are closely related to increasing purchasing power. This, of course, was agreed by the Minister of Finance in the summer debate, just as, of course, the signing in Today's Business did not deny that there are dynamic effects of lower taxes. However, similar effects will also arise if we increase the allocation of road construction to improve the framework conditions for business, to kindergartens or to municipalities without tightening up in other areas. Tax relief can have two effects, one purchasing power effect that increases tax revenue because people get more money between their hands, and one effect that is due to the better functioning of the economy, for example through: an increased job offer. If we increase public expenditure without taking into account how it is financed, the effect of this will also result in increased tax revenue. Firstly, increased purchasing power will result in increased VAT revenue, tax revenue and other income from employers’ taxes. And if expenditure goes to measures to improve the functioning of the economy, then increased labour supply because we remove the cash support, for example. or build enough kindergartens, we will also receive permanent increases in income as a result. But we on the left have nevertheless been careful to talk about a dynamic spending policy. I think it would be neat if the right-hand side was more clear on the obvious fact that tax relief also brings income losses for the state, which will go beyond our ability to invest even more in school, even more in hospitals or even more on roads. So until what we're really talking about today -- if we're going to decrease is selection. Some suggest that such a sample should provide the final answer to dynamic tax policies. I am pleased that the opposition has a great deal of faith in Norwegian researchers, although in certain debates in this Chamber it should be thought that there is hardly any research in this country. But the effect of the tax on economic activity is one of the most discussed, analysed within the economy over the last 20 to 30 years. The results of the analyses are very clear in their ambiguity: it is uncertain just how lower taxes affect labour input because this is complicated, because there are so many other factors that affect this. For tax purposes, only one factor is important for the supply of low pay. Access in kindergartens, for example, has very important for the possibility of being active for young children’s parents, while cash support has a negative impact on the job offer. And some people work at the maximum of their initial capacity, and they might have increased leisure time instead of them wanting to work more. In order to assess the impact on employment, we cannot just study taxes in isolation. Another example: the analysis by the SSB might have had a different result if tax relief had been granted today, and the study of this would have been done today, because today the situation is different in the labour market. The reason for the situation we have today is a major demand failure in the global economy, not the Norwegian level of taxation. I think we politicians wonder ourselves if we believe that economic research should provide an objective and unambiguous response to the optimal level of taxation. The level of taxation has to be determined by weighing the desire to retain the individual for private consumption and the needs of the community for the financing of kindergartens, social security, social benefits, hospitals and roads. Therefore, one does not exclude the main feature of both the market economy and the public economy. There is a correlation between what a payer pays and what a person gets back, whether in the case of the purchase of private goods and services or in the form of government benefits or services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e653	As we have stated in the Committee reading and in the form of a comment, we fully support the proposal from the Right. We in the Progress Party are already convinced that there are positive dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth, as confirmed by several international studies that have looked at tax changes in different countries. For a country such as Norway, which has a high level of taxation and a high level of costs in the international context, tax reduction will undoubtedly result in a more competitive Norwegian business. We will have more economic growth, more jobs, and thus also increased tax revenue. A tax system shall encourage work and investment. However, in order to gain an objective knowledge and to confirm this in Norwegian disciplines and possibly in Norwegian research, it would therefore have been in place with a broader professional assessment of this – a selection of representatives from several different disciplines. There is little ambition to point out that the Government has set up a working group consisting only of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Statistical Central Bureau to look at changes in labour supply and demand and, where appropriate, other dynamic effects. I also want to remind you of all the recordings in the consultation round that the committee had. All organisations supported the proposal. I would like to mention in particular the Tax Payer Association, as in its letter of consultation, among other things. refers to the following: Studies show that many people will work more if the marginal tax was lower. The statistical central agency model does not take all effects into account. The debate, which has been confirmed by several initiators, is often marked by allegations, but limited in objective knowledge, and that a more detailed investigation can thus contribute to a more constructive debate. The main financial industry organisation supports the proposal and points out that the proposal has to be viewed in the light of the fact that Norway has a relatively high level of taxation in the international context, and this high level of taxation leads to large tax wedges, which distort resource use away from the most economically efficient. HSH also fully supports the proposal and mentions among others. that the international recession and the challenges it poses for employment and value creation mean that the timing of such a sample is very good. Therefore, I had hoped that the government parties in this case had stretched out a hand to an overall opposition, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e680	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for an excellent job and, not least, for a balanced presentation on this tax issue. What was behind the proposal was, of course, that we wanted to stimulate the economy and business. In the times of crisis we are now in, it is more evident than ever that in order for it to grow, in order for us to have more jobs, businesses must keep going. It is the very foundation of the welfare society. Such an objective also has the package of measures that we are discussing in other matters, namely that businesses need to improve the conditions of the cost side, raising capital and investing in the future. It now seems, at the time we're in, to be a growing understanding of the government parties that workplaces are synonymous with enterprises, which are once again synonymous with owners. I think it was a good start to that post in the previous case that the representative Holmås had. He talked about capital being needed to convert and create new jobs. And then it must be interesting to discuss how this whole complex – owners, jobs and businesses – reacts to tax changes. Is it positive, or is it negative? I believe that for every day that goes by this crisis, this proposal for a representative will become increasingly topical. The proposal is based on the SSB report which has now been discussed by several. I think it shows that the Right has been right all along, and that the Red-Greens have been wrong about how tax policy works dynamically. So it's not like any tax relief heads are a wasted crown in terms of well-being. Then you can discuss where that boundary goes, and how this works -- it was supposed that this sample should look at. But it is good to now agree that tax relief contributes to some degree to the participation, growth and development of society. The Minister of Finance has also pointed out the importance of this. She said it in the revised debate last year, and also said it in her letter to the committee. The tax debate in Norway has been conducted in recent years with a rather high ideological tab from the red-green parties. We heard the representative Aasen say in his speech earlier here today that the starting point – she started her post with it – is ideology in terms of the level of the tax, and how the tax should be used. And I sat and thought about when I heard her comments, that I really don't understand – she must have agreed that the department reduced this slightly narrower group – why you should at all know this. I don't understand – if you think this ideologically has nothing to do with it, and that it's wrong. I think that's a pretty interesting discussion. But I have to say that I'm glad that I'm through other things, about, for example. the crisis packages perceive that the autopilot is interested in the fact that any tax relief is something that goes down in the pockets of the rich. When it comes to this particular selection, I think that if we agree that this is an important topic to discuss, you should be able to expand it. It is as the representative Lundtägen said in the debate we had earlier this morning, in a slightly different context, that there is a danger with unified professional environments. I don't think the SSB and the Ministry of Finance's expertise might be too aligned, but maybe they're more aligned than if they'd been mixed with someone from outside, and they saw it in a different way. Then, in conclusion, I fully agree with the Council of State, which, in its letter to the Committee, says that there is an urgent need to do something about this matter. I perceive that this is one of the reasons why you refuse to take others with you. I fully agree that this is urgent. I think that the knowledge that we're going to have about tax relief, we need to get fast, because we're now in a situation where we're going to use it. It is a pity, therefore, that the proposal does not have a majority. But perhaps at least the debate can contribute to this being a topic that we will not let go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e702	It's going to be line change. The President will propose that the number of lines be limited to three – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e705	The reason I chose to take a reply was the question from the representative of the fleet. First he took up this that I started with ideology in my post. I would argue that the Right's position on this matter is also largely about ideology. With regard to this working group, I note that this may indicate that the fleet has not read the entire letter from Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, which the Committee has received, which states that this working group should not only look at the dynamic effects of tax changes on the labour supply – ‘and other aspects that affect the labour supply should be taken into account and made visible’. [[...]] I wonder why the Right does not include it in its proposal. For this reason, the representative Fletten does not agree that there are many other aspects of society that affect the provision of work — for example: cash support, babysitting, childcare services and other things – and that will free labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e712	I'm not surprised that the representative of Aasen is talking about ideology in terms of taxes. What I'm surprised about is usually the results. Yes, indeed, I have read the letter from the Minister of Finance. I see that you're going to include a lot of other things in these assessments. I think it should be cultivated more on tax, because it has been central and important in the recent Norwegian economic debate. That's exactly what it's talking about, that you should attract other skills, maybe from the outside, and get fresh eyes – without saying that the eyes in the department and in the SSB are tired – that have a new vision, to look at this. This is a very important debate. I think that the representative of Aasen runs a little away from what she says, because if she really believes what she started with, there is really no need for any working group, nor in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e721	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e725	I am pleased that the last speaker, the representative Fleet, is going up new paths on behalf of the Right. He says that there is a somewhat unified environment in the Statistical Central Bureau and the Ministry of Finance, and that there may be a need for fresh eyes – some may be a little tired. I think that's a description that we're all going to take with us. I'm glad that there's developing an understanding here in this room, and that one will invite several environments with it. This case does not concern corporate taxation. It concerns the taxation of individuals. I think that when a person is going to discuss dynamic taxes for individuals, a person should have a historical perspective on that. Until 1881, there was no tax on income and no tax on wealth for individuals. There was a tax on property – then called a food tax. In 1881, we received a new tax law, which included income taxes and property taxes, and it was closely linked to the principle of ability. For many years, taxes on income and wealth lived together with taxes on debt. Eventually, the food tax was collected – yes, totally out – but it came again and again in the form of a different expression, namely property tax. What is most important in this setting is that from the government parties, three central words are operated that one does not find from an overall opposition. Government batches are ‘taxes according to capacity’. The opposition parties – all the opposition parties – do not have the main premise for the taxation of income of persons, namely ‘taxes on capacity’. This is ideology. There is a clear difference between the principles on which private individuals are taxed. The Government Parties state in a note that: «the marginal tax rates on work affect the supply of labour, primarily for the lowest income». In other words, government parties say that marginal tax rates affect the labour supply for all, but primarily for those with the lowest income. So when the opposition here is trying to say that they're not aware of it, it's opening doors. What the opposition says in the setting is that «the marginal tax rates on work affect the supply of work. It is also generally assumed that this applies to all income ranges, but that the impact is strongest in terms of the lowest income ranges». There is really no big difference between the two understandings of the effect of marginal tax. But then the opposition says, «On this basis, it is highly desirable that the public applicant collect the necessary tax revenue through a broad tax base combined with low marginal tax rates.» Then we begin to approach the core of the debate on so-called dynamic tax policy. Because as the quotation is understandable, it must lead to a flat tax, i.e. a smaller difference between the marginal tax rates on high incomes and low incomes. In order for one to absorb some of the tax losses, it places a weight on a broad tax base. This may indicate that a person wants to reduce travel expenses, the cost of diabetes and so on. From the viewpoint of the government parties and my side, there is a strong negative in the distribution policy context. We need to combine our marginal tax rate policy with the necessary deductions for what are clearly extra costs for the population, related to work, diabetes, etc. The current economic situation, with a marked increase in income differences, is also, of course, a matter of urgency for the Government to focus more on the principle of ability in income taxation in order to smooth out and bring about a level playing field. In practice, it will primarily mean lower taxes on low incomes. When the opposition wants to reduce a sample to look at the dynamic effects in the short and long term by reducing taxes on labour and wealth, it is interesting that they do not mention property taxes. Why is property tax not included in the assessment of the scope of fiscal policy? This is basically a skin debate. What is at the heart of the debate is the question of whether we should have income taxes according to our ability or not. Right has long historical lines where one has not stood as a defender, a perpetrator or a treasurer by ability. The party of progress stands for tax relief for all. What's most interesting is what the Christian People's Party and the Left, which previously in their history have agreed with the Center Party on Tax according to their ability, stands for. Now there's no comment on a seagoing reason where one points it out. I'm sorry you don't have that. That's why I think setting up a commission is really spending time and effort on something that's well explained. The Ministry of Finance now has a number of pressing challenges that one should use its people to find a solution, and not use their professionals to discuss or investigate something that we have debated for a long time, and that has its core in whether one is for or against taxes according to the ability of one’s income to tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e767	The issue is whether or not to reduce a professional sample that is wider than the group working in the Ministry of Finance. I understood from the representative Lundtegen that he initially agreed with both himself and with me, when he referred to what he said earlier today about a unified professional environment, that there was a need for fresh eyes, etc. And then he goes on to basically talk about what the Right really thinks about the different types of taxes, about taxes by ability, etc. I want to return to the starting point here. Does he not think – especially with reference to the fact that he finally says that the Ministry of Finance has more than enough to do – that it would make sense to fill that working group, so that there was a sample that could just explain this that is important, and that Lundtigen in the introduction was also concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e776	I basically agree with and welcome what Mr Fletten has said and says about a broader economic policy environment. I basically agree with what the representative says about fresh eyes, see the issues from a new angle. What I tried to say was that this area, in terms of the so-called impact of a dynamic tax policy, is an area that has been very much discussed both in Norwegian economic debate and in international political and economic debate, and where, in my opinion, one has a good explanation of how it works. So the problem is clear in our assessment. One should then concentrate its efforts on the needs that are more pressing. That was the essence of my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e783	So, then, does the representative Lundtegen think that there is also a need for a working group in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e788	No, no, no. I expect there are a number of working groups in the Ministry of Finance, but in this area, I think it's wasted time to get the Treasury people into a larger group in this area, because I don't see what's new that can come up. Neither has the fleet representative contributed to this debate. What kind of issues are new, which have not been previously assessed, and which can help us to achieve a new result in relation to what is precisely described in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e793	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e796	We have taxes for several different reasons. One is that we have taxes because we believe that tax is a good, sensible and nice way to finance the community. The second: we believe that taxes are important to ensure a fairer distribution among people, because we know that someone earns more than others, some serve insanely much more than others, and they should also – as Per Olaf Lundtigen was involved in – contribute more to the community. We also have taxes to contribute to a fairer distribution when people have accumulated wealth, among other things. by having favourable tax subsidies or by other means obtained large amounts. To ensure a fair distribution between generations, taxes make sense to balance these assets. The third reason for doing this is that we're concerned about the environment. We know that a free market is helping to ensure that the environment is destroyed because, among other things, it is not paid. for the enormous climate emissions that are causing damage to people all over the world. There are three good reasons for taxes that we are for. We don't say people have to pay taxes with joy, but they have to pay taxes with understanding. It is then important to have a tax system that contributes to all three different areas. So the question is, are we going to have a discussion about this, are we going to have a working group or are we going to have a wide range of things that look at the dynamic effects? Then I would say that such a broad composite sample is completely unnecessary, if one does not also add the leads for what it is that is the point of that sample. My point – I hope that is also the point of the Minister of Finance, when she has a working group in the Ministry of Finance working on this issue – is among others. the analysis carried out by the Statistical Central Bureau in order to refer to some points that I will discuss during my post. I was going to go through five points in relation to taking – let's say – a settlement with the dynamic effects of a dynamic tax policy, but I'm going to go into some elements that I think will come out too little when the right-hand side talks about this. One is that dynamic effects are understood to mean that one krone less in income for the country means at least one krone more in income for the community as a whole – or for society and business and as a whole as a whole. That claim has in many ways killed itself twice throughout the history of the United States. One time looked at the degrees during Reagan's period, where he had great thoughts that this would contribute to the giant incomes of the community. It was a fallout. The second time was during the Bush administration period, when the whole idea was to get the economy speeded up with huge taxes, and this would create growth and prosperity. We see what it's created in the United States, it's been one of the contributions to the financial crisis, among other things. because Bush didn't make sure to finance the expenses he had. An irresponsible tax policy that is based on the belief that there is more money for the state by lowering taxes, contributes to huge deficits, as we have seen in the United States. Bush wanted to finance her warfare in the rest of the world by lowering the taxes in the United States. So it's gone down and contributed to the crisis we've had, because you've lived on money you didn't have. You know that, the finance committee. We were on our way to the United States, and some of the things that most people were worried about was the imbalance in American economy, based on a thought that if you just lower the taxes enough, there was enough growth in the economy to make everything go well. It didn't. The other thing I want to pick up is that tax used by us here in this house, or by municipal politicians and county politicians around the country, determines whether it makes sense to collect that tax or not. You can look at the positive labour incentives and see that more work can be done if you lower taxes. However, if you use this money you take in taxes, to do things that at least don't help to increase the supply of work – to get more people to work – it rather means on the contrary that you sabotage the entire positive effect of any tax bill. The best example is the cash support, which Marianne Aasen had in her glittering post. The argument that you collect tax money to spend them on keeping people away from work, you have to go further into the country with, if you're going to argue for tax breaks and say it's better. No, let's instead of abolishing schemes funded by the state budget that are negative for the most efficient use of money in the economy, rather collect taxes to do things that are very good. Bringing money into taxes and spending it on kindergartens, on education, to ensure that high school students complete high school, to provide enough teaching resources, so that students get everything they need — early school effort — spend money on the railways to solve the climate challenges and spend them on research, are great ways to invest community money, which is better for society than if we let them be taxed. Let's focus on that. Let's spend money wisely on socially sensible investments. The third moment is the alternative to tax. It's never inside the right-hand side. If you cut in the health service, and say no, let people get more tax credits to finance their own health services, you get a more inefficient use of society's resources. There isn't a human being on the planet -- well, there are some people on the planet, but there isn't an up-and-coming human being -- who doesn't think the American way to finance the health system is a disaster. Everyone who was at the NHO Annual Conference got that exact picture. Misuse of competition by privatising everything — the whole funding of health care — creates an inefficient use of society’s resources. If you get sick and you need lawyers to figure out which hospital is using the money properly, and who is really going to be responsible for financing this, it goes without saying that you have a much more inefficient system than if you pay taxes to the community, and let the community finance the expenses. One example we have, as Joseph Stiglitz has mentioned, is private funding of retirement. Private financing of pensions, both for brokers, management costs and marketing costs – all of this – helps to make it more inefficient than if we had taken it over the tax bill. It must be borne in mind when you say that the trick in the world is tax-free, as the Right Party and the Advance Party often do. So to the fourth moment. If the Right has seen the light, the Left has seen the light – the Christian People's Party has at least seen the light – and the Progress Party has seen the light as to what is right in relation to the dynamic tax policy: why didn't that policy be pursued in the last four years? It wasn't like the people who had the lowest incomes were the ones who got the biggest taxes. On the contrary, it was shareholders, those who collected dividends on shares, who received the largest tax credits – in reality between NOK 20 and 25 billion in tax credits in the previous period. Instead, that money should have gone to those who had low incomes, and who would have been where one had the most positive effect of tax relief – reducing taxes for the people with the lowest incomes, not for the people who had the highest incomes. The peak tax was reduced, and was proposed even more reduced when we took over in 2005. After all, it is contrary to a sensible tax policy, which must be as dynamic as possible. Taxes should be increased for those with the highest incomes, and lowered for those with the lowest incomes, if one were concerned with the most dynamic effect of fiscal policy. Increased environmental taxes to finance lower taxes for people with low incomes are also very sensible. I don't hear just roaring from the right about doing it. The fifth and last point is what we should do. Well, in the time to come, we should make sure that we increase the taxes on the people who have the highest incomes and the greatest wealth, we should increase the taxes on pollution, we should increase the taxes on those parts of unprofitable business that have large tax subsidies, and then we should make sure that the money is used to lower the taxes on those who have low incomes, and use the money to fund sensible Community investment. It's the best and most sensible way to run politics. If you don't have that starting point, you can drop as many samples as you want. It doesn't help to have any theoretical samples that say this would have positive effects here and there, if you don't say what's the goal of making changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e822	Let me first correct a couple of relationships. Most of what was given in tax reliefs in the last period went to people with low and usual employee incomes, and it went to secure jobs. The second is that tax relief is not a goal. It's an instrument. It's an instrument to provide family safety. It is an instrument for job security. I record – and it may not be surprising – that the representative Holmås and I fundamentally disagree with the view of tax policy, and that Holmås has a fundamental mistrust of people's own ability to create security. We disagree on that, and we will discuss that from now on to the elections – and probably after that too. But what surprises me is that SV, who is otherwise a party occupied with knowledge, refuses to get knowledge. This is not a debate that goes only in Norway. It goes in Sweden, it goes in Denmark, and it goes in all European countries. It is not a matter of theoretical models, but it is a matter of gaining actual experience on what has happened in terms of tax reductions. Why won't the Socialist Left Party have the knowledge that we want to acquire through this sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e835	It is clear that the Right needs to paint what they were doing in the last period. But that's how the differences increased as a result of the tax changes that Jan Tore Sanner agreed to implement. It's just to go in and look at the central statistical agency's income distribution tables, you see very clearly what Jan Tore Sanner's party and the other right parties were doing in the last period. I do not agree with that policy, because I think it is quite important to have fair distribution. It is actually one of the policy objectives. The other thing I'm concerned with is to provide just security and justice. If the right-hand side had been concerned about it, they should have contributed more than they do, just to be drivers of increasing environmental taxes, to increase the income tax for them with the highest incomes, the greatest wealth, the greatest heritage, and instead given it out in tax laws to people who have low incomes and little money. But that's not what the Right proposes. That's not what the Right does in practical politics, and I feel that they should actually be judged by the election to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e843	I feel that there is a certain inflated need with the representative Holmås. Unfortunately, I contribute to his satisfaction by taking a line. I must say there was a very strong diet in the post from the representative Holmås, among others. the claim for these arrangements that ‘keep people away’ work, as I heard the representative Holmås say. I'm not going to go into it that much. I just want to ask, when do we see the consequences of that? When will this government propose a cut in the total parental leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e852	Now I talked first and foremost about the cash support. I believe that cash support is an instrument that is targeted at keeping people at home, instead of allowing them to contribute to the working life and contribute to the common value creation of society. I also believe that it hits very crookedly. We know that, seriously! We know, of course, that the cash support now hits a lot more crooked than the broad leave scheme that we have gradually developed from our side. The fact that we have carried out an increase in maternity leave for fathers contributes to a more equal working life. A government council in a former central government has managed the work of the Equal pay Commission and has said very clearly that if fathers take a greater share of the leave, it will also contribute to a more equal distribution. So equal distribution we're for. Targeted measures to keep people away from work, measures such as cash support, which contribute crookedly, are against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e859	I will follow up on the last one, because the representative Holmås came to say that the cash support so to speak is exclusively and uncritically an instrument to ‘keep people away from work’. I think there are many young children's parents who experience the representative Holmås here expressed, as quite hurtful, if he does not get the opportunity to correct this, which I now in my great roughness will give him. I have the great joy of following a daughter who has been given twins in these days – if I are going to be a little personal. He tries to suggest that this does not require any work. I would like to say that there is something the representative Holmås has something to learn about. I would like to ask him when he intends to learn in this field. I won't do that, but I'd like to ask him to correct this statement a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e866	I would like to answer the question from Lars Sponheim about when I intend to do something about it. I will answer: as soon as possible! But apart from that, it's clear that I, who has five little sisters, know very well that there's a lot of work going on having children. It is quite clear – just to be frank and nuance the debate – that a good part of what we do when we fund the community, withdraw money from people and say that we should do some common priorities that are pure well-being, is not the action aimed exclusively at ensuring that we get as many people as possible to work. It is clear that you can view the cash support scheme as an opt-out scheme, but I think it is a very poor freedom of choice scheme, and I think it helps to keep people out of work that would otherwise be there, because you lose a lot of money on going to work by having to pay a kindergarten, which has become cheaper under our government. But you have to pay a nursery, and you lose money in cash support. I think that's negative for society as a whole, and I'd rather use it on broader schemes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e873	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e876	I would also like to express my concern at this, which has become more of a tax debate than a debate on what the bounded theme of this proposal invites itself to. But I also want to give some reflections. The representative Lundtigen comes with a visit to not least the Left and Christian People's Party, because he says that in some way we have broken taxes according to the ability principle. I can't see that at any point this is neither the case in this setting nor in any alternative tax proposals – nor have I seen that the Christian People's Party has been involved in anything like that. will eliminate marginal tax, or make it so that those who earn a lot or have a lot of money will contribute more to the tax system than others. It is, of course, the capacity-based tax that contributes to a distribution. I can also ask the representative, Mr Lundtegen, to what extent, for example. taxes on wealth on owning means of production are a good expression of taxes on the basis of the principle of ability. There are many, who otherwise have low incomes, who in these days have received a tax tightening by the red-green government for their ownership of means of production and who do not experience in particular that there is a tax on the basis of ability principle. But then the Center Party also has a different policy in its programme than what they are allowed to do in the Red-Green Community. Then I would also like to replicate to the representative Holmås, who is going on the previous government. The most obvious of all I was in the previous government in this area – in addition to what Mr. Sanner pointed out, namely that there were rebates, i.e. tax reliefs, for those with the lowest income, where the largest income tax proceeds were used – was to use more than NOK 6 billion to remove an investment tax that had been correctly adopted by the Storting before, but which had to be financed. I have no doubt that it has contributed significantly to growth in the Norwegian economy, among others. what we saw in the years 2003 and beyond when there was an increase in investment will and desire and red tape in the Norwegian community. It was the biggest simple step that was taken throughout the tax system. The last was a tax reform adopted here in the Stortinget in 2005 – as far as I don't remember with SV's votes, but SV became part of it through the Soria Moria agreement – where one chose to continue a system that provides a parallel marginal tax on capital income and labour income and allows the same income from work not to be penalised more severely than the same income from capital. It provided a basis for removing the split model. It was, in my opinion, an important contribution, also to taxes on ability. So I'd like to be allowed to get hold of what the representative Marianne Aasen said, which I think is quite right. She said, "We have different faith in the dynamic effects." That's quite right, of course, and that's a little bit of the problem. I put many lines under faith, because there's too much «faith» about what dynamic effects are. This allows us to maintain the employment war in Norwegian tax policy – as we do all the time. I believe in dynamic effects. I don't know how big they are. I don't think one krone can be exchanged for one krone, but I think one krone in tax bills, used in the right way, can be exchanged for quite large effects, which in total in the economy might have an effect of one krone or more, at least over several years. But we don't know much about this, but the representative has the Aasen right in it. There's a lot of faith, and we need to coordinate the knowledge and get more knowledge about what this can do. There is, of course, a great deal of professional uncertainty, and therefore we should be guided to the greatest possible degree of professionalism in terms of advice on policy decisions on fiscal policy. What I've learned about economics over the years is that the subject is not least about controlling behavior. How do different economic measures, including fiscal policies, contribute to governing people's behaviour? That's a lot of the economics, and I haven't seen anyone distance themselves from it. It's the deepest thing about the dynamic effects. How can you control behavior? And: how can you control behavior in a positive direction by using taxes and other aspects of economic policy? I want to use economic policies, and not least the power that lies in our overall tax system – then I think about taxes – to steer behaviour in the right direction. I agree that you should have a measure of what you want with dynamic effects – to be able to use it more effectively, use the parts that have the greatest effect, which we unfortunately know too little about. For the Left, it is quite obvious that the behaviour we want to control, including through the tax system, is primarily a faster pace towards the low-carbon society – a greener economy. We should be able to make better use of the tax system. That means it has to be less profitable to do what's harmful to the green economy, but it also means that we have to accept that someone has to be able to earn that we're going to be green. In my opinion, SV’s argument – and SV’s representative – has a problem here by not saying that the green economy should have an effect, there must be someone who makes money to go in the green direction, to go in the direction of a low-carbon society. They have to be allowed to make money on it, and they have to be allowed to become rich if they make a big contribution to getting us a low-carbon society. We also need to be able to enjoy their success in the green economy. I would like a real socialist to stand up here and say that. The second important contribution we have to manage is how to get more innovation and innovation into Norwegian value creation through the tax system. In my opinion, we also need to use the tax system in a dynamic direction in order to increase the spread of power in ownership in Norwegian companies, and we also need the dynamic effects that much of the debate on income tax is about – how to increase the triggering of the working line, to remove the tax wedges, perhaps primarily at the lowest incomes, which make it interesting to deliver labour into the Norwegian labour market. We have some good examples of it – not that everyone is against dynamic effects. And we're investigating this. Ten years ago, the Left got a pass here in the Chamber to set up a green tax commission, led by the working partyman Bernt H. Lund. It was an attitude that, at my discretion, has set important premises in the years to come in relation to the green tax policy. Much has been done, much has not yet been done, because one does not want the most dynamic effects, among other things. with regard to which enterprises we are going to have in Norway, etc. But there is no doubt that there was an investigation into the dynamic effects of the Norwegian economy and how to control important behaviour. Another important part of the Norwegian tax system that has worked in the Norwegian economy in recent years, and which, in my opinion, has considerable dynamic effects, is the SkattenFUNN scheme. We know that there was a system the Workers' Party was against. They would have a grant scheme in place to control the financial policy appropriations, which would allow all the Ministry of Finance bureaucrats to sleep better, knowing that there was no money running out of the state fund that could not be used all the time. However, the scheme was now put in place in Norwegian tax policy, and it has worked. No one should say about the TaxFUNN scheme that it has not functioned fantastically dynamically – yes, so dynamic that I think it has actually become some gray hair among the Ministry of Finance bureaucrats, considering how much money has automatically gone out of the state treasury – and thus resulted in great results in research and development. Here, in my opinion, it is full of examples of dynamic effects in Norwegian fiscal policy that are in use, and for which it can well be said that everyone is for, after the government in its crisis package actually chose to stimulate and improve the tax FUNN scheme, probably to take out some of these positive behavioural dynamic effects. Then there may be a debate about whether it is good enough that the Minister of Finance's own bureaucracy and his own agencies sit down and do some work here. I trust that they can do very much exciting, but I believe that in a field like this, contributions from outside are also required. I record that there is no majority in favour of a NOU, which has its own status in the Norwegian social debate because it provides a platform that everyone accepts, at least if it does a good job. But the Minister of Finance is free to expand his or her efforts to make his or her contributions to different research environments. It is allowed to put a sensible approach to different research environments and independent environments and to make good use of them, thus establishing a knowledge coordination and a knowledge base for further tax debate. At least it will be, if not a follow-up to what is the minority's wish in today's debate, a contribution to providing a more knowledge-based debate in the future on the magnitude of the dynamic effects. They're probably very different, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e909	My and the Government's view in this matter is well covered by the contributions of Marianne Aasen, Per Olaf Lundtigen and Heikki Holmås, who have pointed out many important questions. I just have some comments in addition. First of all, there's a fascinating, captivating idea of what some people present as a dynamic tax policy, that if you give out one billion in tax bills, you get a billion more than one billion more. That's how Reagan and Bush made economic policies. It's gone down, it's not working. From the understanding that there are some kinds of magic in this, the Committee has now reached a reasonable consensus that dynamic tax policy is about whether an extra effect is obtained in terms of, for example, the use of the tax system. improvement in the job offer by providing a tax credit that allows a person to receive a few dollars back from that billion. It's a very important, informative part of this debate, because this simsalabim is then in a way killed – and we're discussing what kind of effects different forms of tax change really have in addition to the purely proceeds calculation effects. We in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government have been committed to obtaining the best possible decision-making basis for the decisions to be taken. That's why there's a working group from the Ministry of Finance and the Central Statistical Agency that looks at whether there's any extra effects that we haven't been equally aware of before. That's why I think this is a sensible job, and it's going to be presented in the context of the 2010 state budget, i.e. until the autumn. That means that the Storting gets all the world to go in and see what now this material is: are you satisfied with what has come, or is there any need for anything more than that? The opposition's proposal is therefore a purely postponement proposal. A commission, or a selection, will in no way be able to make any settings before that time. Setting up a commission or a sample will take time to reduce it, they will have time to work, and a consultation setting will take time. Then we're talking about something that's way ahead of us in time. In this sense, it might be politically tempting, but I'm now going to sign out what we've been doing, anyway. So I want to ask myself, really, that you talk unfurnished about the ministry in the Ministry of Finance in the way that I think the representative Sponheim had tendencies. It's incredibly important that you have an up-to-date and competent professional environment, which can have the professional background that makes the Storting and the politicians know what they're doing, and what are the costs of what you're doing. Then we're going to be incredibly satisfied with everyone that we have so competent people, who are just involved in lighting it, and who by themselves come up with ideas about how to improve these things. We return to the State budget for 2010 and present the views of this working group from the Ministry of Finance and the Statistical Central Bureau. I'm glad that the myth of the dynamic tax policy, that a krone gets more than a krone, is killed. If you were to get something left for a penny spent on tax, you would really just be missing. What we know so far is that tax incentives targeted at low-income groups — and low-income groups are often part-time working groups — have an impact on the supply of work. Then there are many things on the expenditure side of the budget that can also have a significant impact on the supply of work. Cash support is probably the best example of this debate. Cash support is payment for not using a nursery. It's not about anything else. It is the only characteristic of whether you are receiving cash support or not. You can work full, accept cash support and use it for a day’s mother – or you can basically do everything you can, just not use a nursery place. It is also very much linked to professional activity. If the dynamic effects of cash support were to be calculated, it is not only the direct appropriations on the expenditure side of the budget, but it is also important in relation to less participation in the labour market, and thus less tax revenue in the next round. Knowledge has never hurt anyone. We present the working group included in the budget for 2010, and then I expect the debate to move on from there. But the dynamic tax policy as a political seduction, namely that a krone in tax squares gives more than one krone left, has been killed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e936	It's a strange statement from the Minister of Finance that the discussion about the dynamic effects of tax credits should now have been killed because no one has said that mathematics suggests that one penny in tax credits equals one penny on the other side. I have to say that when the Minister of Finance uses his contribution as a political contribution to tax relief, while at the same time she writes to the Committee that she views dynamic effects as relevant, that she believes that work is important, and that it must not be delayed, she must comment on this a little further. For her partners here, the government parties, have said that they also doubt whether there should really be a sample, that is, a group, in the department. I think this crack, and I'd like to know what you're really going to do, and whether the government parties are assembled about what she's writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e945	Now I think the representative Fleet brought a little confusion back in the debate, because it still seems like the Fleet believes that the definition of dynamic tax policy is that a krone given in tax bills returns more than a krone again. So there is no evidence for this, and the study by the Statistical Central Bureau – which is often referred to in this debate – says that by a penny we might talk about 20 cents in dynamic effect, and that is something quite different. It is not surprising that I am responding politically. I'm the head of the Socialist Left Party, and I'm the finance minister of a red-green government, so that the right-hand side's answer, that taxation solves all the world's problems, is never my answer. But we want to have the most effective tax system possible, and that's why we want to have knowledge of this. That's not the same thing as saying that we're going to use large parts of the community's values for further tax relief. We want to set up fiscal policies in such a way that they are as effective as possible. That is the background to this important and significant work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e952	If I have spoken in such a way that the Minister of Finance is hurt on behalf of his office, I would like to withdraw it, because there are few who have stood so often in this Chamber and boasted of the competent ministry of the Ministry of Finance as I have done. In that case, she should probably be criticizing some of her own representatives, who are obviously more sceptical about the same office. But for many years I have had so many meetings with – and heard so many views from – the same office, that I know that they are terribly concerned about looking after the fiscal framework, fortunately. We're supposed to be happy about that. They are concerned with the short-term budgetary effects, and that is good and correct. But it is necessary in the social debate on these issues that the important honour is combined with some long-term independent views that one can use to try out what must be the ever-awakening capacity of the Ministry of Finance to take care of the financial policy itself. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance to complement this work with a few independent reports, for example. from the environment at the University of Oslo and from the School of Commerce in the period leading to the presentation of the State budget, which can give us professional perceptions of dynamic effects and how large they may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e962	I do not know how far we are going to draw this debate on the work of office and political leadership. But what we're going to be very happy about – both for position and opposition – is that we have as many skilled professionals who can shed light on questions and who have important professional input into managing the community's resources as well as possible. Then there is a basis for political decisions. For example, it does. that you have room for action at all to have something to distribute in budget rounds, that you actually become aware of when you distribute dollars, and when you don't. So there it's important to have the best possible professional basis and get the best professional advice possible, while being very conscious of the political choices you make and don't make. It's our job, or the opposition's job when they're in government. I see no need to prioritize any further clarifications of this issue now. I now propose that this job be done and presented in the 2010 budget. We're looking at what the result is, and then in the case this could be a theme again for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e969	As far as I understand, the Minister of Finance agrees that there are certain dynamic tax effects by reducing and increasing taxes. Of course, I don't think that one gets more than one penny again, but the effect is that if one, for example. If people charge them $1 billion more in taxes, they will lose some money on the road, so the government will not get 1 billion in dollars, but maybe only 800 million. kr. My first question is: can the Minister of Finance confirm that there are certain dynamic effects, i.e. that if a tax payers charge NOK 1 billion in an increase in tax, the government won't get that much, but something less? The next question is: is it a thought that one also incorporates such a dynamic effect into the future state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e978	No, it's turning the problem upside down. That tax incentives you might introduce, would necessarily lead to a loss that means you have a certain percentage that goes away, and that you don't get the proceeds that are, I won't be included as a general claim. On the contrary, I believe that for society as such, for the wishes, the will and the ability of the workers, for example, are. the principle of paying taxes in accordance with a very important and significant principle. But what we are discussing here — what is the starting point of the survey carried out by the Statistical Central Bureau and referred to in the debate — is whether some forms of tax relief can have an effect beyond the effect of the tax haven itself, for example. that more people want to work more. For example, we know that tax relief at the bottom that hits all the women around who work in part-time jobs will help encourage them to increase their job breaks. And that's an important effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e985	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e990	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I feel a certain need to say a few words about the debate we have had. So when it's argued by the majority, it all of a sudden seems like putting down a sample doesn't make any sense. That's what you're arguing about on the one hand. On the other hand, it is shown that the reason why the proposal is almost not accepted is that it will delay the work already under way by the SSB and the Ministry of Finance. So it could at least be an advantage if you agreed on what is the reason why you actually reject the proposal. Then to the representative Lundteg. The fact that the Christian People's Party does not participate in a majority comment that "talks about" taxes according to ability does not mean that we have left our traditional position. But I also think the overall committee comment says something about what the tax system's function should be, and tax by ability I feel quite embedded in it. Then I expect it to be out of print. Then I must actually have two words about the post to Heikki Holmås. Actually, it is quite shocking to hear – and that reminds me of why, fortunately, there are political dividing lines in this country – how to look at family policy in SV. He says, even if it's modified, that those who choose to be at home and take care of their own children stay away from work and appear almost unproductive in society. In fact, I think it's quite shocking to listen to such layouts. If I was in the position, I might be a little more concerned that we in the Norwegian working life have a situation where 500,000–600,000 people who are in working age do not participate in the working life, instead of picking out the cash support that makes the Norwegian working life not the labour force you need. I think it might have been a little bit more interesting. It is at least a completely different challenge than the ‘cut, cut’ we constantly hear about the cash support. But as I said, sometimes it's good to be reminded of why you're in the party you're in, and not in another.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1001	Let me just end up completely until the representative of the Syversen said. I agree that there is a strange view of who is productive in this society, and who contributes to building the good community. Let me also underline that Right, sir. Lundtigen, is a supporter of paying according to your ability. We have never proposed removing the top tax in Norway. We want fewer people to pay top taxes, but we have not gone in to remove them. We're also in favour of everyone contributing. But this debate is essentially raising two questions. One concerns fiscal policy, and it is obvious that here the right-hand side and the left-hand side will have different points of view. But let me just say that I fundamentally disagree with the view of what is welfare gain. Because it's obvious that the left-hand side has a view that there are only crowns that are entered into the public fund that contribute to well-being. When the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, presented the Workers' Party's decision-making program, she said that the alternative to a red-green government is a "dark blue thing" that will drain the community's funds. We also hear the Minister of Finance say here that tax relief is money that the state as well distributes. Then you indirectly say that the values that are created are essentially the values of the state, they are the values of society. I'm looking at it the other way around. Initially, there are those in Norway who create values, and then we contribute to the community. So when we get to keep a little bit more of our own money, it's also a welfare gain. And then, in addition, a sensible tax policy can contribute to the growth of the economy, which also makes society and society come out better. That's where I think it's important that, regardless of tax policy views, you should be interested in acquiring knowledge. I note that the Minister of Finance has a clock’s eye on the environment in the Department and the Statistical Central Bureau. I'm also impressed with their skill, but that's not the only truth. We have other professional environments in Norway that also have something to contribute to this discussion. There is a very interesting discussion in other European countries, most recently in Denmark, which has proposed significant tax reliefs for 2010 – DKK 26 billion. And they don't do it because they're going to rob the community's fund, but because they think this can contribute to increased well-being, more prosperity, help you work out of the crisis -- yes, you have faith in the dynamic effects. The whole point of our proposal is that we're going to collect knowledge. I'm not standing here claiming that the fasitite is in the Danish Ministry of Finance or in current foreign knowledge environments, but we need to acquire the knowledge, we need to use it and see how we can have a sensible tax policy that contributes to more value creation and more well-being in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1017	I agree that in business taxation, one is facing quite a lot of demanding relationships with the dynamic effect of taxing on the exercise — and incentive — of a forward-looking business. But what this discussion is about is personal taxation. We have now been told in the debate that taxes, according to their ability, have a greater upturn in the hall than the setting shows. I would say that as the figures of both the Christian People's Party and the Left have expressed themselves, it's probably more of a glitch or an incursion that no tax by ability is explicitly expressed from the two parties. That's something I believe in. We have also been made clear that the Right is actually also a subject of tax depending on its ability. They have expressed something more unclear, it is unclear to what extent it is a mistake that one has not included it, but what is clear is that the Right fiscal spokesman and the Right fiscal spokesman are talking about having their own top tax, an additional taxing of those who have high incomes. What still stands out is that the lot Right wants a flat tax, a smaller distance between the lowest and the highest tax rate. It is still standing firm after this debate. It shows that there is the change that will take place on the right, so that there will be less of the principle of ability in taxation than we have today, as the government parties answer by saying that in the situation we are now facing, rather, the need to increase it is to increase it primarily in order to increase working capacity in the labour market, from those who have part-time jobs, from those who have low incomes — at all an incentive to those who are most in need.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1028	I believe that we have really had a fairly fair and open debate on what such a dynamic tax policy is actually about. It's about, to put it very simply -- we haven't really gone into that part -- that if I make 100 kroner an hour, if I value my free time, let's say 90 kroner an hour and pay 28 pst. Tax of 100 kroner, it's actually like I choose to be free instead of work. There could be one way to view this. What's the point then, is that by lowering taxes especially for people who have low incomes, you get more to work. It's not surprising that if a person makes $500 an hour, he has a pretty strong incentive to work anyway. You make good money working. That means that if your spare time is worth $100 then you're working regardless of whether you pay 10 pst., 20 pst., 30 pst., 40 pst. or 50 pst. tax. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about the dynamic effects of putting the tax down on some groups. We've said from the left-hand side that yes, we get that. That's the way it is. The right-hand side has to be involved in saying that yes, it's quite obvious that the positive effects of tax relief are greatest for people who have low incomes. Then we just pointed out it very simple that when the right-hand side got control of itself, it was actually so that the marginal tax was put down the most for those who had the highest incomes, and not for those who had low incomes – I see Jan Tore Sanner writing as a madman, and that probably means that he wants to say something afterwards. Then I just want to say that even if you increase the minimum deduction, or increase the total deduction, it doesn't give it any lower marginal tax for very many of those who have low incomes, but it does something for the very people who are in this very small interval. So it's not a good argument to say that the right side gave large tax credits to people with low incomes, because it's actually not right with respect to the large tax credits they gave to people who had dividends. I had expected from the Christian People's Party and the Right the same honesty with regard to the cash support. I don't feel that we have. If you do not admit that the cash support, as it works, has documented negative effects, if you do not see that there are other and better ways to implement more leisure time for families with children, such as children. By using a permit scheme, extending maternity leave, if you do not see that there is a better way to make sure that kids get together with their parents, you have in some way misunderstood something fundamental. It is clear that when an immigrant lady on the eastern edge of Oslo can get paid money from the state, cash support from the Christian People's Party, Right and all the others who were for this, it costs her more suddenly to start paying for kindergarten and get a poorly paid job next door. If you don't see it, you're not fair in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1039	I don't think Holmås and I will agree on what really happened in the last period, but if you look at the figures, Holmås will see that the biggest money was used to reduce the tax for people with low and usual employee incomes and to secure jobs. If, on the other hand, the representative Holmås goes in and sees what has happened during this period, and looks at who has received the greatest tax relief from Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and the lady who works in the cash register at Rimi, the representative Holmås will see that there are people with government salaries who have received the largest tax reliefs, and not those who work in the cash register at Rimi. It is the impact of the 2006 state budget — there were significant tax reliefs to them with the highest incomes. So to the representative Holmås’ posts, where he makes a big point out of tax concessions on dividends. Then it is obvious that Holmås has forgotten that it was the bourgeois government that reintroduced tax on dividends through the tax reform, so that the same marginal tax was paid on the highest income and on the capital tax. What remains unanswered by the government parties is why we oppose knowledge from environments other than the SSB and the Ministry of Finance. I think it might be interesting to get there, but it's obvious that you don't want that from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1048	I honestly feel that the representative Holmås is not sitting on the honesty definition just in this case. I pointed out what I think is a problem with the SV's family policy, namely that it is actually seen that those who are at home with their children are a sort of cost item in the social accounts, and that by keeping away from the labour market they do not contribute in the way that SV seems appropriate. And that I reserve the right to criticize. It's a view of the family that stands so far from what I and my party stand for – and I also believe what the Center Party stands for – and I think it's remarkable that you repeat it again and again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1054	To me, it is difficult to understand that the very simple point made by the representative Holmås regarding the effect of the cash support on the job offer is perceived as trampling on people who are at home and taking care of their own children. It's completely incomprehensible to me that you can go that far. The simple calculation for her who sits at the kitchen table and has a right to cash support, but who is wondering if she should get a job, is as follows: First you have to go out with what it costs to use a nursery place, then you lose the cash support. The sum of that is NOK 5000-6 000 a month, and then you start making money. That's what we're discussing here. It's not about the value of being with your own children. I have full respect for people who choose different from what I did when I had little children. The question is how to align society’s policies — public policy — with this. That's the one. The second reason why I took the word is that sometimes I get almost baffled by the fright of the Right. It is quite right that we took over a tax reform when we entered the government offices in 2005. It was about the 2006 budget. There was, for the reasons on which the representative Sanner was involved, a heavy tax burden on the top of employee income, because it was intended to harmonise marginal taxes on capital and marginal taxes on income. What I and the red-green government did about it was about halving it for the high-wage groups. And that the Right then has no shame in life, but it suggests that it should be an initiative of the Red-Green Government – when we did the best we could through the changes in the top tax and through changes in the wealth tax in order to achieve a fairer distribution – I actually think it goes far beyond what is a substantive contribution to the debate. What is now the greatest difference between the opposition and the position, in addition to the tax level discussion, is the view of capital and capital income – not only in terms of dividends but also of wealth and inheritance tax. It is clear that the proposal from the Right to remove the property tax is a gift package for the most wealthy people in Norway. That would mean that many who have significant economic values would end up as zero-tax collectors. It is the same thing as in the Right's own debate on this issue, and I believe that in these times of crisis, in particular, it is necessary to ensure that taxes are paid according to their ability, so that people see that those who have a good economy are involved in contributing to the common fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1063	I'd like to answer the representative, Sanner, why we're going to oppose a sample reduction. I would then like to sum up today's debate by saying that there is already a sample set down. Those in that sample are working on the budget and the LOTTE model that is crucial for government budgeting. Therefore, it is a very relevant group considering the dynamic effects on a government budget. We need to look at all kinds of dynamic effects, not just two relationships, taxes on labour and taxes on wealth, as the opposition suggests. Thus, it is much wider than the reverse arrangement for which the opposition goes in. In addition, they will deliver this result for the autumn, so that we can use it for the 2010 state budget. There are several reasons why this happens, and I also think it's an ideologically much cleaner approach than what comes from the right-hand side, which only talks about dynamic effects on taxes. They are not subject to a charge in their proposal. They don't mention property, and so it's a very narrow approach, also because we've now found in the debate that there are many other conditions in society that affect access to labour, rather than just taxes on labour and wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1068	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1071	First to the Minister of Finance: I understand that she is being provoked, but it is primarily because it is a sore toe. It is true, of course, that the red-green government increased taxes in relation to the Centre-Right Government proposal, but the reality of the budget presented by the Minister of Finance and the Red-Green Government was that persons with the highest income received lower taxes than they had in 2005 and significantly more tax relief than persons with the lowest income. So it's not like it's said, that we're opposed to charges being part of such an investigation. On the contrary, our comment states that charges should also be included. Our point is not what elements you put into this, but what professional environments you use. It is absolutely excellent that there is a working group at the intersection of the Ministry of Finance and the SSB, but we also want other disciplines, and we want to listen to international experience in relation to the effects of dynamic tax policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1078	What the representative Sanner says is wrong. It is true that the tax reform, which would harmonise marginal taxes on labour and capital, meant that the marginal tax on labour was reduced. But the revenue consists of several things, so the sum of what was done in terms of labour income, property taxes, capital taxes, otherwise, is that through our government period, they have paid significantly more taxes with the highest incomes than they did under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1083	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1099	I think I can promise a slightly shorter debate on this matter than in the previous one. In the context of the 2008 budget, amendments to the shipping tax scheme were adopted with transitional rules requiring two-thirds of the estimated profit to be taken into account over 10 years, while an estimated tax amount linked to the remaining third may be allocated to the company's Environmental Action Fund. A broad framework was provided for the nature of actions qualifying for deductions from the Funds and the deadline for implementing environmental measures was set at the end of 2021. Shipowners who have plans for environmental action thus have good opportunities to use the entire fund for environmental purposes by this deadline. For the parties to the government, it has been important to establish rules to facilitate the inclusion of part of those liabilities as equity. In Ot.prp. No Therefore, 31 for 2007-2008, it was considered that this could normally be done for the provision of funds for environmental measures. However, it has been carried over from among others. The Shipowners’ Association and the Auditor’s Association that the latent tax liabilities attached to environmental fund cannot, in accordance with current accounting policies, be classified as equity in the company’s accounts, even if shipping companies can be expected to use the funds for environmental measures. To meet these objections, we have already adopted some adjustments to ensure that the wording of the transitional rules does not prevent the environmental funds from being held as accounting equity. In addition, Professors Frøystein Gäsdal and Atle Johnsen at the School of Economics, commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, have carried out a thorough investigation into the issue of the accounting implications of this and have concluded that a tax liability can be attached to the environmental fund. However, whether it is to be accounted for and how it is to be measured will depend on how the legislation is perceived and operated for each company. According to the investigation, the value of the obligation can be zero, i.e. that the whole environmental fund may be included in accounting equity. Geedal and Johnsen also point out that so-called green objectives can in themselves provide a basis for equity classification. The design of the provisions on funds for environmental measures, etc. results in, in our opinion, that the fund can be classified as equity in so far as the company has plans for environmental measures. However, it has been shown that audit firms have not in practice accepted the classification of the provision of funds for environmental action as equity. They indicate that the fund must be shown as a tax liability until environmental measures are actually implemented and activated. In order to ensure the equity classification, they have argued that no time limit can be set for using this environmental provision, i.e.: that the 15-year period has to be abolished. The companies may not be charged with an accounting other than that for which the audit firms choose to enter. So we can't decide anything else about this. However, the Government Parties are concerned that all elements of the conversion of the Company Tax Scheme are implemented in line with the assumptions made by the Government and the Storting. Therefore, in order to ensure that the provision of funds for environmental measures can be held as equity and to cut off further discussion on this theme, the Minister of Finance has, as is well known, decided to suspend the 15-year period for which companies must have invested in qualifying environmental measures. The change will result in no time limit as to when the provision of funds for environmental action must be applied to qualifying environmental measures. Thus, the entire environmental fund component of the tax credit can be classified as equity, even with the view on accounting classification used by audit firms. In this connection, I refer you to a letter from the Ministry of Finance of 20 January 2009 to the Presidency of Storting, which follows as an attachment to this suspension. There, the Minister of Finance presents the proposal for the lifting of the deadline and proposals for a relaxation in the ban on loans and guarantees for companies with tax credits from the former Company Tax Scheme. Against this background, I believe, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that the intention of the proposal presented in Document No. 8:20 for 2008-2009 is complied with and recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1116	It is true that this has finally been agreed, but when I listen to the case rapporteur, it almost sounds as if, from the adoption of the transitional rules, this has only been a process leading up to the Minister of Finance's letter to the Presidentship of Storting that the deadline would be removed. I think it makes sense for the Minister of Finance finally to do so. That might have been the only possible thing to do. The opposition has collected this several times after the adoption of the new company tax system. Question-time questions and interpellations, in draft budgets, etc. we have had a significant pressure on this. It is a good thing that we have now reached a decision here, although I must say that I do not find it exotic, but perhaps a bit curious that the Council of State, in its reply to the Committee on 7 January, still felt that the deadline for environmental investment was absolutely necessary in order to fulfill the intention of the new shipping tax system, but that two weeks later she thought the opposite. Sometimes it's wise to think of the opposite. This is very important for an important part of Norwegian business. I am pleased that we can conduct this small debate – I say – now that you agree on this, without discussing tax relief for the rich, for shipowners, etc. It was completely absent in the position of the rapporteur. That's good. But I can't help saying that the predictability of this industry, for industry, has been absent in the time this has taken. Many companies could have arranged differently, especially in the face of the crisis we are now facing in the context of contracting, etc. If promises had been made in the past, this almost procurator's debate on who would interpret the accounting regulations in what way would have been avoided. It's always going to be an accountant. There will never be a professorial investigation from some commercial college. I think it became an unworthy game to maintain political positions that would not be abandoned. I'm glad we got there that we should have been quite a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1127	I only have a brief, small comment on this matter. On the issue of shipping taxes, the Government has taken the view that the share of tax credits to go to environmental investments could be run as equity. We believe that we have had the right to do that. We have had professional assessments that have supported our view of it, but the auditors have not done so – nor have international auditors. And then you get to a point where the question becomes: Should you keep words in relation to the Shipowner's Association? The cost is that the incentives for environmental investment are being somewhat reduced. It's quite obvious. But here there are balances for different reasons, and I think it's right to keep words to the Shipowners' Association, and that's what we've done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1135	I'm not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, just ask a question that I've been a little curious about, because we now agree that it's good to have turned around and that you've landed there. What happened between 7 January and 20 January, which changed the whole perception of the deadline, that the professor's investigation was no longer concerned, but did anything else mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1140	It was clear that international audit firms were not going to approve this as equity. Then I didn't see how we were going to be able to convince auditors that this was to be counted as equity. Although we meant it, even though it was professionally good reason to believe it, it did not seem that we were going to get through among those who are then in and assess – it has the Fleet right in – what the company can count as equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1145	Just briefly: Does the Minister of Finance think that international audit firms had not previously meant it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1150	I don't remember which audit firms we're talking about right now. But I would like to come back to the agent Fleet with that. What became very clear was that leading international auditors were not going to approve that this was carried out as equity. I would like to get back to the Fleet with this in an appropriate way. I stand by my words to the Shipowners' Association in this matter. The cost is that the environmental incentives of this scheme are lower. There are costs that we have to take, because I think the Federation of Shipowners is actually – what to say – concerned that the industry should be an environmentally friendly industry. And then we have this thing out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1162	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2202]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1180	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1189	Behind the scenes, or the message of stage art, gives a good impression of today's situation in the field of stage art, both in terms of challenges, field of action and vision. But there are also some themes that are not illuminated and not taken a stand on, and that is among other things. The report of the Løken Committee on the award of various grants is the report of Telmarksforskning on artists’ employment and income relationships, and these are the conclusions of the Cultural Monuments Committee. The Committee expects the Council of State to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with these three cases. The Committee strongly agrees on the notification. The fact that the government parties and the opposition show some disunity is not entirely unnatural. Some of this probably means that the different parties say something about themselves. A scene art report was supposed to involve a lot of people in the field in Norway, but through the hearings it turned out that there were very few who wanted to say something. Only six actors in the field considered it important to address and disseminate their challenges to the Committee. The reason for this could be one of two: either they are deeply satisfied with the situation, or they have direct dialogue with the government apparatus. Regardless of which of the two factors underlying the fact that there were only six hearing bodies, there is some concern that this also contributes to the fact that the flow of information does not reach all lots. But we listened carefully to the few who were represented at the hearings, as reflected in the committee's comments. It is good that a Joint Committee is committed to the importance of keeping the Department and its underlying agencies at arm's length away from the institutions receiving State grants. The Committee considers this to be important for each institution, in order to maximise the scope for its free development. The Committee is pleased with the important role played by the cultural school bag in the field of performing arts. This means that very many children and young people get the joy of experiencing a professional stage art offer during the year. But it is an overall committee that, with some concern, looks at the fact that in 8 of the country's 19 counties, 50 pst is financed. or more of the settings of the Cultural School Bag. The concern is, of course, based on the fact that the cultural school bag is based on profits from Norwegian Typing, which may provide unpredictable framework conditions in the future. So a little bit about the visions of this message. There is an overall committee that wants to strengthen the production and dissemination of theatres and supports the provision of a theatre offer across the country and the use of local creative forces. Not least, the amateur theatres are an important place for recruitment. An overall committee would point out that theatre festivals are of great importance for viewing and relational construction in the open field. In terms of quality, development and innovation, there are several measures that are very exciting, including the creation of a drama base, which the Norwegian Theatre Council is working on, and where the minority in the Committee has a concrete proposal to come back to. The majority also agree with the Government's proposal for a House of Dramatics. The Committee is of the opinion that children and young people should have the same cultural offer as adults, but on their own premises. It is important for the Committee that children and young people become not only passive beneficiaries of cultural services but also actively participate in artistic and cultural experiences. There's a lot you can get in touch with the message, but what's most important is that we all support the Government's intentions about a living and active stage art environment across the country, where both performers and spectators should have the best possible prerequisites for both conveying and experiencing stage art, whether it's theatre, dance, games or opera. Then it'll be exciting to see in the future whether these are just beautiful words, or whether the government really wants to bet on this field. Now I must also be allowed to say something about the various proposals and positions of the Progress Party. That's why I'm going to go to it. There are seven different proposals from the opposition in this position, and I intend to touch some of them. The first is the proposal to ask the Government to consider using some of the funds in its crisis package to restore the old buildings of National Theatre and National Scene. Since we are familiar with the fact that there are large delays at the two old theaters, and since we also know that it is very expensive to repair the buildings, the minority believes that this could be one of the ways to get ahead of the maintenance work. The second is that the Opera in Kristiansund should become a node institution. The new Oslo opera has become a success, but that means that you can quickly lose focus on all the activity and competence built up in the districts. This is why the minority – and also proposes – wants to address this issue by ensuring that a focal point institution is established that takes care of all the other great opera interventions in Norway. The minority also wants to incorporate the national production and dissemination plan of opera and ballet into its future initiatives in the field. Another theme that I think is very important, and that has a lot to say about the availability of both contemporary drama and previous setups, is that you create a drama base – otherwise I also think the word is very good, since I came up with it entirely by myself – where all of the dramatics are put together. This will help many more than today to gain access to and know what is available from new and old in the field. It will also help dramatists, both known and unknown, to demonstrate and, not least, to make their works available. Therefore, the minority goes beyond just mentioning this in a note, they also suggest that the Government should consider the establishment of such a drama base. The last proposal I want to say something about is proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox Children and young people may seem to experience art and culture by being passive recipients of different forms of performing arts. The Progress Party is alone on this proposal, and some will probably claim that children and young people get active participation by experiencing professional stage art. We do not entirely agree with this. But we put different assumptions in what we say and write. The Progress Party meant that when we set up the cultural school system and, as we still believe, children and young people should contribute themselves, they should participate themselves. That's why we want to make sure that's exactly what's going on. Funds should be earmarked for active and participating activities for children and young people. The most important thing is that the cultural school bag doesn't just become another way of financing stage art. If that was what was supposed to happen, you should have put the entire gambling surplus into the state budget and then distributed the funds. They had then received an open and transparent administration of this money as well. The Progress Party is also alone in believing that amateur theatres should be an important part of the region's stage arts offerings. Someone obviously put something else in it than I mean, and I'm not aware of. For me, it's important that the amateur theatres and the amazing job that the firemen do out there in the districts, among other things, make them worth mentioning in this message, and that it shows the importance of amateur theatres in both recruitment and the dissemination of stage art. In conclusion, I would like briefly to say something about what is called sponsorship incomes and gifts. The minority have noticed that the sponsor's income in the stage arts field was 34.3 million. kr in 2006. That might not be the really big sum, but maybe that's the extra amount that's going to be needed to make an additional set-up. In the Communication, the Government writes that it wishes to turn cultural policy towards a more mixed economy, which means that institutions become less dependent on public support, and to a greater extent on private sources of funding. This is the minority well pleased with, and we are not afraid that this contributes to less creativity or rocking the integrity of cultural actions. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation, and hope that the field of performing arts can also be pleased with both the notification and the referral of the Committee. With this, I address the proposals that the minority are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1248	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1251	Since the red-green government took over, stage art has been given a powerful boost. During the period 2006–2009, allocations for performing arts increased by 450 million. kr. The initiative includes the Riksteatret, national theatres and regional/territorial theatres, the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, regional and district operas and dance activities. In addition, the appropriations for performing arts under the Norwegian Cultural Council have been considerably strengthened. I can mention that the free performing arts grant scheme, the new dance scheme, the scheme for new Norwegian dramatics and the guest game scheme have been increased. In addition, a new mechanism has been set up for the basic funding of free performing arts groups in order to increase the level of economic predictability. In 2008, Dansens Hus was opened, and many actions within the dance field have been given a strong boost. In recent years, developments in the field of performing arts have been ripping, not only because of increased appropriations, but also because of a significant increase in competence in the field. There are now far more educated dancers, actors and musicians than ever. At the same time, we know that the majority of stage artists and musicians are freelancers. Between assignments some of these will have to apply for unemployment benefits. The large survey on the living conditions of artists carried out by Telemark research shows that the income of these groups is below the general income level in the country. These are aspects that are not dealt with in concrete terms in this Communication, but a continued increase in the focus on stage art will have a direct impact on artists' living conditions. On the other hand, the Government will at a later stage come back with proposals for follow-up to the report on the living conditions of artists. The working party is very pleased that we have now received a full review of the stage arts field through the message. It is important to draw up new policies and future initiatives in this area. We have recorded that the message has been received well within the individual stage art environments. Sometimes you can get the impression that stage art is reserved for particularly interested people. It's a completely incorrect description. In 2006, the audience for publicly supported and private stage art sets accounted for more than 3 million. By comparison, the number of spectators in Tippeliga was 1.6 million the same year. It tells us that people use our cultural institutions, and that the interest in theatre, opera and dance is great. At the same time, we know that people's access to stage art is very different, depending on where you live in Norway. Therefore, a Joint Committee agrees with the Communication's objective of achieving a professional offer of theatre, opera and dance performances to the whole country. Among other things, within the theatre field, we know that there are four counties who do not have theatres with grants within the functional division principle. In Oppland, the establishment of Theater Inland, in cooperation with Hedmark, will be able to offer both states a better range of performing arts, and in Buskerud there is also work to develop a comprehensive plan for performing arts in the county. The notification mentions in particular the importance of the Reichsteatret as a theatre for the whole country, and it is proposed that the Rikssteatret should be given increased budgetary flexibility. In this way, the Reichsteat can better fulfill its mission. At the same time, the Committee is committed to the Rikstheatre to cooperate with other theatres so that good layouts can be shown for even more. The working party is very pleased with the success of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet since the opening of the opera house in Bjørvika almost a year ago. Nearly 1 million have been present at the Opera setups, and the Opera performances are sold out for the next six months. A prerequisite for the construction of the new opera house in Bjørvika was that opera would not only become an Oslo phenomenon, but also an offer to people else in the country. As a consequence, the red-green government has invested in regional and district operations, and in the current year these have increased by 10 million. kr. In addition, we have ambitions that this promise will continue. The Norwegian Opera & Ballet has increased by 147 million since 2006. kr to present first-class opera and ballet. The red-green parties believe that the Opera will also have good financial conditions in the future. But at the same time, we believe that the strong interest and the large visit to the opera house mean that the institution has an unused income potential. We therefore expect the Opera to increase its budgets more by making better use of the commercial potential of the institution. The Communication has devoted a whole chapter to gender equality, and proposes measures to strengthen the gender equality situation in Norwegian performing arts institutions. Among other things, the Ministry proposes that government grants be conditional on institutions developing strategies to ensure equal opportunities for men and women in artistic, technical and administrative positions. Furthermore, the Ministry will ensure an equal distribution of responsibilities, including management responsibilities for women and men. The Committee has not made any additional comments on the proposals, but I believe that it must be interpreted as a support for the Government's proposal. With the exception of the fact that the Progress Party has special comments in some areas, it must be established that the Government has gained broad support for the bet and the organisation of the stage arts field for years to come. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased about that. At the same time, we are very pleased that we have a government that has contributed to the country's theatres, operas and dance scenes having gained over DKK 1⁄2 billion more to activity than it received during the Bondevik II government. But our ambitions don't stop here. The cultural promise shall be continued and the performing arts will experience a further lift with a continued red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1277	Behind the scenes, which we are discussing today, is a straightforward and informative review of the stage arts field. A number of strengthening measures have been proposed, and there are proposals to which the Right can join evenly. Some really new course, however, cannot be said to retract the message. The general impression is that the government's stage art policy is confirmed. This is also reflected in the cultural promise, where the budgetary increases that have been in recent years largely continue the proportional distribution between the institutional field and the free area. In this way, this message is based quite well on Valgerd Replystad Haugland and the Bondevik Government's cultural message, where this was also a theme. The budget increases that have occurred during this period have been supported by the right. In addition to the Government's proposals, we have also spent extra funds each year on the free area. In this there is a clear signal of a correction of the course of theatre policy from our side in order to strengthen this area. Right wants a vital theater with the ability to meet tomorrow's audience. In it lies the need to enter new scenes, meet other arts and create expressions with the capacity to communicate at many levels. Our artistic processes are largely about exploring and trying out new meeting points between the actors and developing new surfaces against the audience. Theatre art has built many competences into it. This gives great potential for development not only artistic but also in form and dissemination. Let's not forget that theatre art is the mother of opera and film, and I'm pretty sure that we will also find important incentives in the development of tomorrow's stage expression, whether they are direct or disseminated in the digital world. Development of the TV game e.g. is to a large extent concerned with the processing of the theatre’s competences in the fields of dramaturgy, scenarioography, movement, etc. Right wants to pitch out a course where we rely to a greater extent on the experience we have so far gained in the free field of producing and programming scenes. Not so much to understand that we believe that the institutions' time is over – far from it. We need them, of course, also in terms of working on the long lines. But tomorrow's challenges may require first and foremost the kind of dynamics we find today in the free field of producing and programming groups. This is about artistic entrepreneurship that is fast enough to seize the opportunities when they are there, which is flexible in production, with a spirit of openness in relation to new cooperative structures in the practical and in contact with other genres. If we are to move forward and open the theater towards tomorrow, it is necessary to settle with the somewhat sectoral theatre thinking that has advised the ground here to land. We've been talking about this in some cross paths, but some real steps that matter to do something about it we haven't gone that far. Maybe it's time. The institutions and the free field are still mainly referred to rather defined aesthetic arenas. Despite the fact that institutions are encouraged to cooperate with free groups – which they have also become better at – they are not challenged on their own way home. Right wants to do this. We therefore propose in the notes to establish a time-limited scheme where a group can receive a relatively large amount – let's say 10-12 million. kr per year – for example, a three-year period for implementing an artistic project. For example, this could have been a three-year drive-up to the Ibsen Year or another field that could normally be considered in an institutional context. The free groups on their side often represent a more avant-garde tradition carried out on modest means. The basic funding as a scheme is a major advance in this context, but if this scheme is to take effect, it needs to be significantly increased in the coming years. Right wants to further develop this system, so that one can imagine a real development for stand-alone groups, where they can build up over time, perhaps to end up with a fixed system of state aid, as we have for some groups of the state budget today. In addition, it is necessary to be clear that we do not want to narrow down what should be the aesthetic platform of the free groups, but rather that groups are welcomed within all parts of the theater, including the classical substance. The background to this breakdown is not least the fact that the free groups are substantially financed through grant schemes, including: through the Norwegian Cultural Council, which has operated with an explicit requirement that projects should be what they call innovative. It is claimed in the comments of the government parties that this requirement is not a problem, and that it does not seem exclusive to those who work in a more classical orientated context. This may not be the case on the part of the actors. During the hearings, the group of actors was aware that the concept of innovation is a problem, and other actors, who have also been part of the public debate, have expressed the same point, among others. someone working with the Cultural School Bag has made this issue visible. You can also look at what kind of projects are actually supported. So if you want a change, there's a clear need to take an explicit settlement with this term and remove it as a criterion. The right has therefore put forward proposals to this effect. So the right wants a much wider area of free groups. But the development of this field is not just about defining aesthetic arenas. It is also about strengthening dissemination across the whole area. Norwegian Scene Art and Dance and Theatre Centres have important experiences to contribute to this. In addition, the right-wing programming scenes, where viewing and participation through co-productions are an important contribution. The BIT Theatre Garage, as part of the Scene Art Network, is perhaps the best example here in Norway. Over many years, this institution has worked in an active network of similar institutions around Northern Europe. This form of work is about networking between different actors on productions involving different types of efforts in co-production cooperation, or also as participants in a common set of tournaments. The origins of the artistic ideas may lie in the individual theatre, or they may come through cooperating free groups. BIT Theatergarage has thus been a significant contributor to bringing forward some of the most prominent actors in the contemporary field, for example. Ingun Bjørnsgaard Project or Bakrauppe. The director of this form of work is challenged from being a reindeer artistic leader with great personal ownership of the artistic expression to having a curating role and being an active partner in relation to ideas sprang from others. In the right, this form of work can make an important contribution to the development of the theatre in our country. The theatre garage will probably be connected with a distinct contemporary expression in a more avant-garde direction. But the form of work should also be relevant in other contexts. In this context, I refer to the discussions taking place in Uppland, where several environments in the different regions of the country want to develop a model that takes this into account. Right-wing believes this would be an interesting matter to try on further. A stronger focus on stand-alone actors will also mean a greater need for development work at all levels. In this context, the right supports the idea of the house of Dramaticism, but believes it is important that this does not have a centralising effect. In these contexts, there are many potential actors with important contributions, including: The theatre garage, which has already been mentioned. A broader free field also requires a broader basis for dissemination than what we have today. The cultural school bag is, of course, an important body in this context. Scene art use and the dissemination networks around the counties are also key partners in this context. But there is also reason to stress the importance of the festivals and the effect we would have had if we had several programming theatres that worked after the model like that. The theater garage does. A new course for Norwegian theatres must also be about economics. The government has stepped up the allocations to the theatre field over recent years, at a price enough, and has launched the strongly-extended basic funding mechanism. That's very good. Should a wider bet be made, as the Right proposes, it must of course also mean an increase in the funds for the field that I have now been in. This should also mean that the field should be left with a greater share of the money being given. In this context, the right will also underline the importance of having multiple sources of money. Mangfold is essential to get the width we want. We believe that the type of entrepreneurship that the free groups represent, will also be an exciting starting point for the networks that we believe will be developed in a wide-ranging cultural and business organisation, which we have discussed a number of times. In addition, they will be active in working against private foundations and private funds, which could also be thought of in this picture, plus that, as we see many examples, they will be very active in finding partners in both private and cultural life. With this I take up the suggestions on which the right is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1311	The President will recall that the proposals have already been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1314	SV is pleased that the government has provided a big message on stage art covering the full breadth and diversity of the stage arts field. It's also a pleasure that it's been so well received in the different stage arts environments. The aim of the Communication is to enable the field of performing arts to offer high artistic quality, diversity, innovation and challenging art throughout the country. That is why I am particularly pleased that the message adds up to strengthening stage art in those states that are currently not well covered. Only four counties do not have permanent theatres within the functional sharing system. It's Eastfold, Oppland, Akershus and Buskerud. I believe that the strengthening of the theatres in these states should lead to their status as regional and sub-regional institutions, if they so wish. The survey of artists’ activity, employment and income ratios in 2006 showed that there were large pay differentials and that stage artists, especially in the free field, have very low incomes compared to a Norwegian average income. There are also large pay differentials between women and men, especially in the dance arts field. The committee's report has now been at the hearing, and SV is pleased that the government has announced that it will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a case to this effect. The debate on equality in cultural life is now highly topical. I am pleased that a Joint Committee joins in the important gender equality work outlined in the Communication by the Government. The fact that both sexes have equal opportunities to achieve positions and tasks is an important goal in stage art. The programme shall contribute to the recruitment of women for leading positions in performing arts, film, music and television. Scene art institutions must take gender equality challenges seriously and ensure that women have the same opportunities as men to develop and to have roles. Not least, we need to focus on equal pay development. We have had poor wage developments in Norway, but in cultural life in Norway it is even worse. This is important for the development of artists and not least for the diversity and offer of the audience. The Ministry will follow this up as part of the governance dialogue with the institutions, including: through the annual reporting. I also believe that new measures need to be considered, such as: allowances. Norwegian dancers want a dance alliance based on a model from Sweden. This will reduce the differences between permanent and freelance dancers and allow more people to work. SV supports further investigation. Dance and Theatre Centres have been working for several years from an international as well as a national perspective. The free field of performing arts includes: support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs travel aid scheme, managed by the Dance and Theatre Centre. This is important for an international exchange and can be further developed in cooperation with the stage arts field. SV is particularly pleased that from 2009 the basic funding for free groups was extended from 6 million. NOK 12 million. kr. Norwegian Cultural Councils can thus provide support to several companies. A well-functioning basic funding/activity support may provide the necessary predictability for the further development of the open field. The government’s initiative for a year of cultural diversity in 2008 was well received. The year of diversity was very successful and contributed to new cooperation projects and innovation in relation to multicultural efforts in cultural life. So an important group: children and young people should have the same offer as adults for artistic and cultural life. Children and young people shall not be passive spectators of professional stage art, but active participants in their artistic and cultural experiences. Norwegian Scene Art Use conveys stage art productions from the free stage groups and is a central contributor to the cultural school bag, which is an important contributor to artistic and cultural experiences for all children and young people across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1340	The main focus of this message is on theatre, opera and dance. This applies to both institutional and free performing arts. The goal is a professional offer of theatre, opera and dance views and other theatrical expressions throughout the country. The Christian People's Party joins this goal, and we join the main lines drawn in the message. But in some areas we separate layers, and I want to comment on this separately. This applies especially to the opera field. We are all proud and happy for the new opera house in Bjørvika. But I'm recording that the government primarily measures success based on the number of views and visitors, and that this is made a decisive success criterion. The message states that the opera house works as intended. The Christian People's Party is not in agreement with this. It is clear that from an architectural policy point of view, the Norwegian Opera & Ballet is a success. However, there is a lack of infrastructure, for example: led to the cancellation of productions. It's very unfortunate. The decision of a cultural nation is not whether we are able to build a building, but whether we are able to fill it with content of high international quality. This institution shall be a force centre and a reference point for the whole country. The government should therefore review the economic needs of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet with this in mind. Success should be measured on content and quality, not on quantity alone. Furthermore, the responsibilities of the national operation for the district operators should be clarified. In general terms, the Ministry determines that a further bet is still on and will further develop regional and district operas as an important element within the stage arts field. The intent is good, but the message is not mandatory enough at this point. The measures recommended by the Ministry for the Environment in 2002, in the national production and dissemination plan for opera and ballet, are either watered down or lost in the message. It is not good if the recommended measures from this plan are set aside. The blending model on which district operators build has a large potential that should be tested to a greater extent than today. In addition to supporting new local and regional initiatives, there should also be a more systematic use of the district operation as a test and pilot basis, not least in the intersection between amateur and professional. I would particularly like to point to the new network OperaNorway in that context. All opposition parties ask that an assessor assess whether the opera in Kristiansund can obtain node status. Although the government party is not on the note and the proposal, I hope the government council will consider this and take a positive look at it. So a few words about financing stage art. The government proposes a more mixed economy with higher levels of private funding, which is supported by the Christian People's Party. But we're skeptical about the changes in the support schemes that one puts up, and that we've seen evolve over time. The direction of the rain is towards fewer sources of government. Nor, as a general rule, shall companies with fixed annual government grants be able to seek Norwegian Cultural Councils. The Ministry assumes that trials and developments are financed from the ordinary operating budget. The Christian People's Party is positive to a development that gives enterprises better economic space, but we're critical of a turn against fewer state sources. It is important to take care of — and stimulate — the lack of expression that exists. And with an increasingly complex approach to quality, there are several sources of funding – including government officials. I think it makes sense to keep some flexibility in the system. It can help to spread decision-making power and cross-practice, and one is better equipped to capture new initiatives. In addition, organisations and institutions will need to launch projects during the year – projects that are not in the ordinary annual budget. To keep this flexibility going, I think we need a flexible system that's not too rigid. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of investing in good cultural buildings throughout the country. There is a great need for both new buildings and the maintenance of existing buildings. I am pleased with the extra permissions that came into the action package earlier this year, but a lift here must be long-term. That is why we propose that the Government submit a stepping-up plan for investment and the maintenance of cultural buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1359	The theatre is an important cultural arena, but it may be an important form of expression. Maintaining the theatre tradition is not only a traditional form of expression, but it is also a way of caring for the formation of a society. There are also important challenges here to be able to develop this form of expression. I think it is sad that we have not managed to create more consensus on the comments relating to free groups. We see today that the development of expression is enough institutions good to care for. But developing the current day in terms of expression is most often done in the free groups. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. The ability of free groups to be born, to live and to die, I believe is an important prerequisite for being able to keep the good institutional theatres up – also to be able to have a breadth in the artistic expression that the theater actually is. I would like to point out that there has been a lot of excitement in the institutional theatres as well as a break in relation to the usual recruitment venues that have been to the theatres, where we now see that the way into the theatre scene is much more complex in terms of educational background than it was traditionally. I agree that it looks a little strange when it comes to equality in committee, that the Committee has no comments. We probably have, but they're located elsewhere. One of the important things, which I'm very pleased with, and which I hope the Council of State and the Government will actually end up with a positive investigation about, is that one has now said yes to an actress and dance alliance, which the Left has proposed in several government budgets. The reason for this is not only to make it easier to get a job, but also because it's an equality grip. It's a special equality approach to women, older actors, who are now most often pushed out of the ensembles, and those who have the most difficult opportunity to get on stage in the big institutional theatres. In Sweden it has been seen that establishing an actress alliance has made it much easier for particularly older women actors to get the opportunity to stand on stage and practice their profession in more places than you have when you are only connected to an institution. Another important aspect of the theatre is the challenge that exists between professional and amateur. A country will not survive without having the very best professional actors in this field if you want to call yourself a cultural nation. But it's also important to have a broad grasp of amateurs, sail if I'm unsure whether most actors or politicians are made by amateur theaters. What you see is that you train people to be both an audience and an actor. There are many who meet the theater for the first time as an audience in an amateur setup, and there are many who meet the theatre as an actor for the first time through an amateur setup. Therefore, it is important to have voice and good funding arrangements for amateur theatres, and it is important to have cultural houses and arenas that open up the good, fun local theatre setups that bring people into the theater. Otherwise, I'm very happy that we've got such broad support for the diverse scene, which is a very exciting theatre project for young people with immigrant backgrounds. I'm sorry that we didn't get any more support for scholarships for classical dance – ballet talent, which we've seen so much fun in the field of music. The last thing I want to notice is connected to the opera. We've now got a great house. But if that house isn't just some architect coming up and looking at, we have to make sure to fill that house with good art and give the Opera the opportunity to develop that art expression as well as at all possible. The second part of it is that it also has to lead to an increase in opera art and music theatre around the country, so that we get recruited audiences. As we think about amateur theatres, we also need to recruit the good actors who can later be on stage in our important and great national arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1387	Scene art is among the most popular cultural expressions we have in Norway. In Oslo, theatres have better visits than football stadiums in a year. More than 1,300 sets of 15 000 performances are put together each year and more than 3,5 million tickets are sold for stage art performances each year. In the Cultural Lift, government parties announced a boost to stage art. We've already increased the appropriations for stage art by 430 million. kr or 46 pst. since we took over the government offices in 2005. In 2009, Stortinget grants SEK 1.36 billion for performing arts purposes over the Ministry of Culture and the Church budget. It's going to be 25 pst. of the total appropriations for cultural purposes. The Scene Art Message Behind the scenes is a further bet on stage art throughout Norway, and it is also a collection of important facts that have not been collected in the past. The message gives a good picture of the significant position the theatre, dance and opera has. It also clearly shows the differences between the genres and the importance of the cultural school bag for children and young people to have access to stage art. Just at a time of huge increases in the budget, with enormous investment in resources, it is all the more important that we have a full review of the use of resources, the structures, the functioning of the sector. In good times, we should be critical of how we spend our money, and always work for the best possible sector, for artists, cultural workers and for the public. The notification is a big space for professional stage art. But amateur theaters, amateur dances, and amateur operas are becoming increasingly important and are well mentioned in the message. The main objectives of the message are: a professional offer of performing arts throughout the country of a high-quality offer of performing arts to reach the entire population across the country to ensure greater diversity, innovation, quality that we need an efficient use of resources; What became quite obvious when we wrote the message, and we knew so far, is that some regions of the country have a weaker stage art offer than others. This is why we pay particular attention to increasing the stakes on stage art in counties such as Akershus, Buskerud, Østfold and Oppland/Hedmark in cooperation with relevant municipalities and county municipalities. We also announce a bet on free performing arts throughout the country. It's also important that we develop stage art in those states that already have their own theatres. I also want to initiate discussions on the assignment for the individual theatre. It's e.g. important for professional institutions to go on tour, develop cooperation with other institutions and also free performing arts, so as to make the best possible use of their resources. The goal is that we have a good and equivalent stage art offer as far as possible in our geographically complex country for the whole population. In particular, the provinces of the capital and the hinterland are the weakest covered by a good stage art offer. This is an opportunity, a chance, for these regions to also lift themselves to the joy of the artists and cultural workers who work in those states, so that you can create stage art on your own premises, but perhaps most importantly, I'd say, for the audience to experience good stage art. We have to keep having the audience with us in the dimension when we're discussing this. Sometimes it tends to be put a little bit further down on the list. There will also be considerable emphasis on improving conditions not only for theatres but also for dance and opera, which are relatively small in budgetary terms compared to theatres. That's why we've used a lot of space to give the dance and the opera an equivalent attention in stage art news. We know that for a long time these forms of art have been treated in part by a vote. Of course, the operation has been given a formidable boost through the bet in Bjørvika, the ballet as well. It's very well organized for our national ballet, and the artistic level is of high quality. We have also increased the appropriations for operations in Bjørvika enormously. We've followed the plan that we put together with the Opera, to dot and dot. But also to the Opera in Bjørvika, we must make demands for efficient resource use and follow the budgets – no trees grow into the sky. I see that some of the opposition parties have a comment that it is almost a crisis if it is canceled. It's like that in institutions all over the world. We must also live with this in Norway. It's a dynamic process to run a stage art institution. The dance may have been particularly vocally treated. We've given special attention to it throughout the government period. We have created our own support scheme under the Cultural Council for free dance art. We've got our own dance scene in Oslo that's gone from zero to 30 million. kr in State aid per year. years, and we have also invested in other ways to build up the dance as art, like the cultural arena, in Norway. When we put up as hard as we do on the central institutions, it is also important that we get the whole country with. That is why every year's budget has had special attention, perhaps especially the district operation, which, as far as I remember, has received more than twice as much State aid since we took over in 2005. I'm a little bit unsure of what is meant when the opposition talks about the Kristiansund opera having a node status. There is no doubt that the Kristiansund opera is the leading district opera. It has the highest level of government funding, and it also has a responsibility to contribute to the development of competences/networking with the others. But the Focal Point Institute has dealt with the Storting in its own big message and made clear the criteria for what it should contain, and we have abolished the node concept of the Museums of Art. It seems a little small in principle in relation to the node approach we had in the node message, to begin to introduce the concept of ‘inner opera’. I don't think that would prevent us from giving Kristiansund the position that I believe both the government parties and the opposition agree on. Many stage art institutions are so closely connected to their venues that the name of the building is the same as the institution. The theatres for example The National Theatre and the National Scene represent important historical cultural buildings. The modern theatre houses of the Norwegian Theatre and Hålogaland Theatre and the new opera house in Oslo are new important monumental buildings. Property management with the operation, maintenance and development of buildings, premises and stage engineering equipment is a long-term activity with increasing demands for professional competence. Of course, when property management fails, it can have very negative consequences for stage art. Several of the theatres have significant delays in maintenance. The notification provides a comprehensive account of both investments in theatre buildings, the state of the art and different arrangements for future management, and provides that all stage art institutions with overall management responsibility for buildings should assess agreements with external managers, such as: State building. I put great emphasis on this to ensure the great investments that society has made in these buildings, and to ensure the performing arts good venues. It is no secret that, for any theater director, it is not the long-term maintenance challenges that are priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's creating a good theater there and then in its theater manager's period. It is good and good, but then we have to make sure that there are some others who set the framework for continuous maintenance, that the buildings are kept in good condition, so that we do not bring about these major rehabilitation projects that are both more expensive and that create worse working conditions during the period of maturity. That's the kind of solution we want to find. Many have mentioned that regions should have more to say for their own institutions. We suggest that the state review and assess its appointment of directors and board representation in regional/national sub-institutions in order to reduce the scope – and that is what we are already doing, as the Stortinget is already familiar with. Scene art is the art of the moment. The spectators become co-creators of the drama when contact between stage and hall is good. Scene art, I think, has a great future. Quality in Norway is high. The comprehensive and comprehensive review that we're doing in this message will raise the stage art.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1445	The Council of State was to a large extent involved in its contribution, and he has also mentioned it widely in the communication, this with the maintenance of theater buildings. Now it's like we have three national scenes, but two of them have sustenance in very old construction. The minority, the opposition, has made a proposal – if the Council of State can look at the possibility of using some of the package of measures presented in the context of the financial crisis, to provide craftsmen with some of the poor equipment and to the poor maintenance available on the two national scenes. I wonder if the Council of State might consider this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1452	Investment in and maintenance of cultural buildings is, and has been, a very important investment for this government. When we took over the autumn of 2005, we inherited a budget where the Bondevik government and the then Minister of Culture proposed 4.3 million. kr in the total allocation for the whole of 2006 for cultural buildings. We've increased that to 140 million. kr in 2009. At the time, commitments were made to the cultural buildings of Kristiansand and Stavanger, with a funding level of 4.3 million. I would have taken approx. 100 years to fulfil the obligations of the State. So this is session formidable. I don't know what the percent is going to be, from 4.3 to 140 million, but it's going to be a few thousand percent. In addition, we have added a new 70 million in the action package. kr for regional cultural buildings. So this is already part of the action package. But I fully agree with the questioner that maintaining and cleaning up craftsmanship, an investment in cultural buildings, is an absolute measure that we also need to consider further if the crisis is to intensify.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1459	I noticed that once again the Council of State would take up with the major theater institutions this by spreading with regard to the partners and the free field. I think that's commendable. We've talked about that many times before. What's a challenge here is that these institutions and the free field are in different traditions, based on the aesthetic platform they have. This is very much linked to the fact that the free groups have been subject to this innovation requirement, which the Norwegian Cultural Council has at the bottom of its arrangements. Some claim that there is no big problem, but these groups themselves and the actor association believe that it provides a framework for what the free groups can work with. I understand that the government parties will not vote for this in the form of proposals here, but I want to ask the Minister of Culture if he could not imagine taking up this issue with the Council of Culture, and digging a little bit into it to check if there might be a problem you could do with anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1468	This is actually a pretty interesting issue, which could be discussed a lot. The original purpose of the Culture Council was at the time very much to raise Norwegian literature, through the purchasing system of the libraries. Literature is always fresher. New literature is being written – you don't rewrite old books in a new way, you create your own experience here and now. I have a certain understanding of the approach of the questioner and the opposition, that innovation can act as a limiting factor in terms of what has been supported. But I believe that the Culture Council is in practice finding good solutions. There are activities supported by the Council of Culture that do not necessarily have to be entirely at the forefront and avant-garde. We have also made some arrangements that are adapted to this interlayer, for example. the four-year support scheme for free performing arts groups, which provides a kind of combination of long-term predictability, freedom for the institution or for the ensemble and flexibility for the release of new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1477	The councils were inside the regional and district operas of their inauguration. I wonder if the plan that was made in the Ministry in 2002, the National Plan for the Production and Distribution of Opera and Ballet, is a plan that the Council of State has scrapped in its ministry. Are there measures in the plan that you do not want to implement? Several have called for measures that have doctors in that plan, because when we decided to build an opera, it was also said that we should have a parallel bet in the districts. Now we've got a great opera in place. There are still challenges, of course, with the operation there. Although regional and district operations have increased compared to the previous ones, there is still considerable scope for doing so. Much more can be done to anchor this throughout the country. That's why it's going to be the matter of the Council of State. Then I hope he can answer with something other than the number of increments they have received, because we have to move on. What would the State Council like to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1482	I haven't gone through the national plan in detail, but I think it's almost hard to find things there that are not more profoundly covered in the scene art message. The core point of any action plan is well the increase in the budget, despite all that is going on around the country. As I said in my post, the increase we've given the regional operations is formidable. Compared to the Bjørvika bet, it's going to be a much smaller amount in dollars and dollars, but it's going to be a much more powerful percentage. Now we're soon up at the level in Bjørvika that we've found is going to be a stable operating level in the future. We've taken the escalation plan – we're done in 2010, hopefully. Then I believe that the next big promise within the opera must be first and foremost in the regions, within the regional operas. I believe that the national action plan is more than met in relation to the goals set at the time, and that this art message is now an even stronger basis for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1491	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1496	I just want to link comments to some different questions that have been raised. First of all, as far as the amateur theater is concerned, I think that the Karin Woldseth of the Advance Party had some good approaches. In our country, we have the tradition, unfortunately, that within theatre there has been a very sharp distinction between amateur and professional. It's not really an age-old tradition. It's interesting to see the difference between the theatre and music life, where the difference is much smaller, and where it's much less focused on the work that's done. In a theatre to grow from below, and to arrest the audience, there is no doubt that the amateur theater and the amateur theatre's possibilities are very important. And when I'm talking about free groups and an expanded free field, it's just to open up professionally based groups in a form that can also approach the shape of the amateur theater, which makes the difference a little bit smaller. However, when we do not agree with the comment of the Progress Party, it has something to do with what we experience is to be the responsibility of the State and not the responsibility of the State. So the amateur theater is outside of this. Governments also pointed out that it is important that local actors work professionally, and that is right. But then he almost pointed out as a contrast that the focus should be on the audience. Then I think there's a reason to focus on the context. We see that where there is a good local anchoring, where the theater jumps out of a local context, you also get a large audience. This applies not only to the amateur situation, but also in general. So to the question of appropriations. Yes, it is true that a lot more money has been allocated in this period. The right has been on each of the heads. But the interesting thing in this context should perhaps be what is the relative distribution between the free field and the large institutions, because that is where we have a signal whether there are changes in policy or not. There's not so good to see if there's actually been any change. When you have had so much money to travel with, you could also say that then you have probably had a lot of room to make a lot of politics. And an important policy here would have been to maybe have allowed the free field to grow relatively more than what the institution field had done, especially when no one had had to suffer in that context. We're almost thinking of a career for the open field. This means that the basic funding must not only be a limited scheme for free groups over time, but a system that should be developed to provide a career cycle for the free groups from small productions to fixed places on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1513	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2202]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1531	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2202]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1549	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1567	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1583	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1592	The future of large industrial enterprises and hundreds of jobs in Halden depends on the Norwegian and Swedish authorities working together to find a solution to repair the link to Halden. The problem is acute. Ships built and used for cargo are growing in size. The limit of how large ships that can enter the fjord of Halden have been reached, and more and more ships have to apply for a derogation in order to be allowed to enter. Reloads and limitations related to the size of ships will lead to both longer transport time and higher costs – factors that could rapidly weaken the competitiveness of businesses, with the consequence that future contracts and jobs could be lost. The Progress Party has proposed to the representatives of Sortevik, Gåsvatn, Fostervold, Leirstein and Giltun that the Government should carry out the necessary impact assessments and ensure a decision-making basis necessary to meet Norwegian and Swedish requirements, so that necessary improvements can be made in the Ringdalsfjord fairway into Halden port. It is a unanimous Committee on Transport and Communications that expresses a strong understanding of the challenges posed by the Ringdals/Iddefjord threshold issue for companies dependent on the maritime route of transport. The Committee also sees the need, for safety reasons as well as for the possibility of using larger ships for transport, to improve the shipping links to Halden in order to ensure the development and competitiveness of large industrial enterprises. In addition, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. The threshold problem in Ringdalsfjorden is not new, nor here in Stortinget. Among other things, the representative Engeset from the Right raised the matter twice earlier. The case has involved several parties and representatives in the past, precisely because a solution to the threshold problem is so crucial for the Halden companies, with corner stone farms Nexans AS and Norske Skog Saugbrugs in the head. Then it has been necessary to raise the matter in order to ask what is done by the Government. There is no doubt that Norway has to sit in the driver’s seat. There are Norwegian industrial interests at stake, and Norwegian authorities must take initiatives towards Sweden in order to understand the urgent need for an improvement and to come up with concrete solutions that are acceptable to both Norwegian and Swedish authorities. Rehabilitation of the Halden fairway will undoubtedly be positive for industry and the workplace. However, remedial action could lead to negative environmental impacts. The fear of this is also the reason why Swedish environmental authorities have not wanted to do any physical intervention in Iddefjorden. Of course, the improvement of the fairway must be carried out in the most gentle manner possible for the environment. No one wants major and perhaps irreparable negative impacts on the environment. For this reason, Norway has the greatest interest, both for the environment and for businesses, in finding good environmentally friendly solutions. In this area, a lot has changed since the impact assessment was carried out in 2002. One of the greatest environmental consequences of fear was the removal of mass and explosion. However, since then it has been developing new technologies, which are likely to allow the removal of the required mass without the use of explosives. With regard to the Swedish fear of spreading pollution along the Swedish coast, Ringdalsfjorden has undergone major changes. From being a biologically dead fjord, fjords have once again become a living fjord thanks to clean-up, purification measures and changes in industrial production. I don't doubt the good intentions in this case, and soon we'll get the answer if there's anything else, in the NTP. The right-wing party expects the government and the government to continuously press on this matter. Since the last round, there has also been a new government in Sweden. Maybe they look at it differently. In any case, the Norwegian Government must have an active attitude towards Sweden. The Progress Party and the Right and also the Christian People's Party and the Left for proposals from the Advance Party and the Right in a later post, see page 2176. stands together for proposals for I, which are included on page 2 of the vote. Furthermore, the project, which has previously been included in national plans, has been identified as requiring sufficient resources for the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department to stop its work in 2003. The same four parties therefore also promote proposals for the Government to provide for: ‘the priority of the action and the appropriate return of the Government to the Storting if additional appropriations are needed to carry out the necessary investigations, to ensure a basis for decision making and to carry out the necessary corrections.’; Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is included on page 2 of the vote. Entitled to the proposals of the Party for Progress and the Right in a later article, see page 2176.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1626	The representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1629	Once again, the Progress Party has launched a Document No. Eight proposals in Stortinget where one might suspect the Progress Party to try to present it as if the Labour Party were voting no in local matters for which we are actually in favour. This time it is the threshold of Iddefjord and Ringdalsfjord that is the theme. The Progress Party claims in its proposal that the Government has not done anything in this matter, but only referred to the upcoming NTP, and that only after the Progress Party has presented its proposal for a representative, the Government has taken the matter up. That's not correct. The threshold in Ringdalsfjorden has been working with us for several years. Halden's politicians and state politicians have tried cases against different governments, who have discussed the matter with Swedish authorities as well, but have not come any way, for example. in the context of the discussion on environmental issues on both the Norwegian and Swedish sides. The municipality and county council have again raised the matter in connection with a new transport plan, which will be submitted in March. During the visit of the Transpor Committee to Eastfold and later to Oslo and Akershus, the matter was re-examined by local politicians and by the representatives of Nexans. On the basis of this, Irene Johansen from Eastfold took up business with the Minister for Fisheries and Coast last summer. The Ministry then assessed the case, and the Government agreed to reopen the case with Swedish authorities. This was mentioned in local media last fall, and is well known. The letter from the Swedish Minister of the Environment for Fisheries and the Coast was sent in January this year. It is suggested that we take a new initiative from Norway in this matter, by contacting the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to initiate a new distribution of the possibility of deepening the seal to Halden. Such an arrangement will, of course, take place in close cooperation with both Swedish and Norwegian environmental authorities and follow the legislation of the Espoo Convention, says the letter from the Council of State. We are now awaiting answers from the Swedish side, and before that, it is not possible to say anything about the outcome. So the progress party suggests that the government should start and work on a matter that they are doing. But the Progress Party goes further than that. In addition, they propose that the Norwegian Government should carry out the necessary impact assessments and ensure the necessary basis for its decision. So they want us on the Norwegian side to figure this out. With experience from previous attempts by other governments in this matter, the initiative taken by the government of Stoltenberg on the joint distribution of Norwegian and Swedish authorities is the right one. We're not going to cross our neighbors, as the Progress Party wants with its proposal, and that's probably not the right way to rule the country. There are certainly more of these issues coming from the Progress Party, where there are proposals to make decisions on issues that are going to work on in the Government, and in which we can't be involved in making decisions until they're done dealing with in the Government. I would like to stress that that does not mean that we are voting against local issues that we are in favour of; that means that we are voting against the Progress Party's proposals in the matter. The creation of the Progress Party is that either we or the Government are doing something about this, and it is directly wrong. But that's probably how it's going to be more of a forward towards the choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1644	It's interesting, because the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that we are voting for what we are for and against what we are against. That's why it's a little bit interesting to hear the previous speaker's argument. Then we are very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party is now joining the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right. We record – given the current debate on cooperation and who you can work with, and who you can't cooperate with – that here we get full support from both the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right for Document No. The eight proposals now under consideration. The limit of how large a ship can enter the fjord of Halden has been reached. The sailing trail has three narrow and shallow thresholds, from Hummerholmegrund through Svinesund and Bjällvlandet/Seleter, which is 2.9 km long, while the rest of the 8,1 km sailing trail is deep and wide. It is absolutely necessary to deepen these three thresholds in Ringdalsfjorden in order to ensure the competitiveness and development opportunities of the large industrial enterprises in Halden. In the three areas Halden wishes to increase the depth of sailing from nine to twelve metres. It is also important to bear in mind that the route to Halden is classified as a ship link of national importance. Deepening is important for safety reasons, while also allowing the acceptance of larger ships, which can make much better use of cargo capacity. Particular concern is the situation of the company Nexans Norway AS, formerly Alcatel, which with its nearly 600 employees, among others. producing sea cables. The company is currently transferring more than NOK 2 billion. It is becoming increasingly difficult for the company to transport these cables out of the sea, as the special vessels with which the customers supply are too large. Dispensation is currently required almost for each ship entering the company. Norsk Skog Saugbruges further inside Iddefjord will benefit from a deeper fairway, by making better use of the cargo capacity of the vessels and thus reducing the transport costs. If these two corner stone holdings in Halden lose out in competition, there will be dramatic consequences for both the municipality, Eastfold's industrial industry and the Norwegian export industry. Some of the challenges to resolve the widening of the shipping chain are due to the fact that the Swedish authorities have bound significant land and sea areas, without either Norwegian authorities or interests being consulted or being informed along the way, while Swedish authorities have strongly criticised the fact that Norwegian authorities can at all find that they would allow the planned fairway extension. We know that there has been regular contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities, but that this has stopped, and little has happened in the case. Enterprises and local authorities have called for action from state authorities and from the Council of State to find a solution. We therefore believe that it is important to draw up the necessary impact studies to ensure the necessary decision-making basis for both the Swedish and Norwegian authorities to reinvigorate the work, so that the necessary improvements to the Ringdalsfjord fairway and to Halden port can be carried out as quickly as possible. Finally, I would also like to say that when the committee was visiting both Eastfold and Akershus, we received clear feedback that this was an important matter, both for industry and the public in the counties. They asked the Committee to address this matter and to do what we can to solve the challenges associated with the restoration of the Ide fjord. We have raised the matter several times, but unfortunately we have felt that very little has happened from the state side, and therefore we have promoted this proposal for a representative. We had hoped that we would get full support from Stortinget, because this is important for business in both Eastfold and Akershus. Unfortunately, the majority of the parties only choose to attach the matter to the minutes, without actually deciding on an important matter for the business community in Eastfold and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1661	Before the representative Holten Hemdal gets the floor, the case-speaker has asked to carry out a clarification of the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1664	When you're in a minority, you get as happy when the minority is as large as possible. That is why I was injured to say that there were four parties that made proposals for I and II. But it is only the Progress Party and the Right that are promoting the proposal. I was informed in advance that the Christian People's Party and the Left are joining, and then they can justify it for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1669	The President will make sure that it is corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1672	For me as an Østfold representative, this is an important matter to move forward. The threshold in Ringdalsfjorden/Iddefjorden affects a very important area for business in the Halden region, but also for the whole Eastfold community. We are repeatedly reminded that today's fairway is deficient in relation to the need to serve larger ships in this area. In the Halden region, we have world leaders in terms of the climate resilience needed in terms of technology and equipment supplied. They need better depth than today's, so they can really be involved in the skill we're asking for. The Committee states in its position that they have a great deal of understanding of the problem raised by this matter. That's the best starting point we can have. This must then be demonstrated by a mutually agreed solution with the Swedish authorities. Because that's in the relationship between Norway and Sweden we need to find a consensus. It is good that the Council of State has written a letter to its Swedish colleague, and it is good that Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre said on the company visit to Nexans that he would deal with the problem with his Swedish colleague. But the question asked in the Halden community, which is being asked from this pulpit today, is, of course, the answer to these enquiries. That's the answer that's crucial to getting on with it. There's a long and sometimes extensive history here, and now that's the answer we need to get on in action. It is also important in view of the need for the case to be included in the forthcoming National Transport Plan 2010–2019. At a time of economic stagnation, it is also very important that the framework conditions for business, including accessibility, are organised in such a way that it is not the backbone of business to further develop and participate in climate change. It's the companies that want to be on, and the companies that are on already today in this region. The Christian People's Party has long had an involvement in this matter, and that is why, after further consideration together with the Left, we have decided to vote in favour of the proposal that the Right Party and the Advance Party have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1685	Ringdalsfjorden in Halden, which separates Norway and Sweden, is neither deep nor wide enough. The sun can be expanded with blasting and dredging, but there has been good cooperation between the authorities on the Norwegian and Swedish sides. The core of the conflict is three elevations on the bottom of the sea that lie farthest in the Ringdalsfjord at the national border and make the entrance to Halden for the ground. The case spokesperson had a full article about the problems associated with these thresholds, and there's no need to repeat all of that to me. There is no doubt that this is a very important matter for the industry in Halden, among others. both the cable factory Nexans and Norwegian Forest Saugbruk depend on the depth of the fjord. There may be a need for cross-border cooperation in some areas, but in this case I hope and believe that Norwegian and Swedish authorities can become a few about a solution that is conducive to the development of the district. Not long ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was visiting Halden, and both he and the Minister of Fisheries and Coast have clearly stated that they will work to resolve this matter. Elles, I refer to Torstein Rudihagen's explanation of vote for why we in the Central Party also vote as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1697	I have a great deal of understanding of the desire to clarify whether the work on improvements in the fairway in Ringdalsfjorden into Halden can be carried out. It is also on this basis that I have contacted the Swedish Environment Minister, Anders Carlgren. In the letter that I sent to the Swedish Council of State, I have shown that in Halden there are two major industrial companies that depend on the transport of their products by sea. The first company is Norsk Skog Saugbruks, which has a terminal for paper removal. The second company is Nexan’s Norway AS, which uses ships with large draughts to transport cables produced by the company. The Norwegian authorities have also previously contacted the Swedish authorities. The Swedish Naturvårdsverket has previously requested that the matter be investigated in accordance with both the Espoo Convention and Norwegian and Swedish planning and building legislation. Against this background, a communication on impact assessment was drawn up in December 1998, which made it clear that the action would involve direct intervention in Swedish territory, which would require specific authorisations under Swedish law. The notification was sent in 1999 to a consultation in Sweden by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and in Norway by the Swedish Coastal Agency. In the light of the hearings on the communication, the question of the deepening of Ringdalsfjorden was raised at the time. The two companies concerned have expressed a wish that the entrance to Halden be rectified, and this is the main reason why the question of deepening the entrance to Halden in Ringdalsfjorden has been raised on several occasions. On the Norwegian side, we are aware that about half of the proposed interventions would have to be carried out on a Swedish basis, as the border between Sweden and Norway is in the middle of the healthy state. Now I await the answer from the Swedish Minister for the Environment. I agree with a unanimous committee that special consideration must be given to environmental assessments of this project. This will be one of several issues that will need to be part of a dialogue with the Swedish authorities. We can first say something about the further progress of a possible deepening of Ringdalsfjorden when the response from the Swedish authorities is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1710	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1713	That the Council of State has sent us a letter, I guess we're familiar with it. But what will the Council of State do to actually resolve this important matter for both Nexans and Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs in Halden? Does the Council of State think that simply attaching the proposal protocol is a good solution for the companies that are in this hopeless situation and who feel that the Norwegian authorities do not have enough room for manoeuvre? When does the Council expect this matter to come? Do you even choose not to point out in the form of a note that you are concerned about entering it into your national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1718	Now I have sent a letter on this matter to the Swedish Minister for the Environment. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also raised this matter with his Swedish colleague and received a reply that one should look at the matter in Sweden. Of course, we will continue to deal with this matter with the Swedish authorities in the hope that we will get a positive answer. Whether this matter is recorded in the Stortinget or not, I do not think that the Swedish authorities are critical of how they respond to this matter. In fact, we need to get a positive response from the Swedish Environment Minister and Swedish Government before we can start new investigations and, if necessary, prioritize the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1723	It is not necessary to repeat and underline the importance of this matter for the development of the two major industrial enterprises in Halden. But I am a little concerned that we now in the further work on the matter do not drive us firmly in the same way as we have done before. That is why I am concerned that everyone knows the matter and history well enough to be able to tell the Swedish authorities and politicians that the environmental concerns and environmental protection they have had in the past are no longer the basis for this, both on the government team and on the political team. Here it is possible to implement the project in a very gentle way, by subsea wire sawing that hardly becomes visible from the surface. The mud problem you faced in the past, with fear of polluting the Swedish coast downwards, is gone. The salmon now goes all the way up to Saugbruks, so this is a clean fjord. I hope that the Council of State can also help bring this before the Swedish authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1732	I am aware that there is new technology that can be used, and there is, of course, information that we pass on to the Swedish authorities, hoping to influence them. I am aware that the representative Martin Engeset also had an involvement in this matter in the previous period. Unfortunately, that involvement was not shared by his party traps and the Christian People's Party and the Left, who then sat in government and could make contact with the Swedish government. Unfortunately, it was not done, but our government will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1739	I can comment on the last Council of State said: There was contact between the previous government and the Swedish government also on this issue, but we did not succeed in getting an understanding either. But the Council of State says that she has a great deal of understanding of the desire to clarify, but that she is waiting for answers from the Swedish Minister for the Environment. Now it's two and a half weeks until NTP is presented. If we look forward, because that's the future we can control, that's where we can manage to solve this case, which I think we have a common commitment to. Is it the case that the Council of State expects that the answer will then be available, so that we can finalise this matter during the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1746	I can't give a date for when we get a response from the Swedish Environment Minister – he's the one to respond to. But I can assure you that we will continue the dialogue with the Swedish authorities until we have received an answer. So I'd like to contribute a little bit to the history. I did not register any great commitment to this matter from the previous government. The representative Engeset wrote a letter in 2003 to the then Minister of Fisheries of the Right, who responded by thanking for the recording of this matter, but informed that the Ministry of Fisheries had joined the Coastal Agency’s recommendation that the plan work should be stopped. It was the government's official position in the previous period. The previous government, the Bondevik II government, did not find any room for prioritising this project in the national transport plan it presented. We're going to present a very offensive national transport plan next month. Which projects are prioritised in that plan, we're going to come back to then.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1760	There are some accusations from the representative Rudihagen to the Progress Party, and that's why I could imagine getting the Council's help to clarify some of the facts. This is a matter for which we all burn. In May last year, the representative Sortevik addressed a question to the Council of State, and then the Council of State said that she should come back and assess this matter in connection with the national transport plan. And then we hear that the Workers' Party is working on the matter. But what the Storting has to do with it is what the Council of State says, and what comes out publicly. What has happened in public from May last year until the Progress Party on 12 December promoted this proposal for a representative? What are the public signals that the Stortinget has received from this government on the further work on the threshold issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1767	I have explained what the government has done in this matter. The matter has been raised with the Swedish authorities through my letter to the Swedish Minister for the Environment and through the contact of the Minister for Foreign Affairs with his Swedish colleague. There is a dialogue we are going to follow up with the Swedish authorities in the hope of getting a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1773	I note that the Council of State says that it is immaterial whether a decision is taken in the Norwegian Parliament, or whether a annexed protocol. It doesn't matter. I think that is a very defensive attitude of a Council of State. It is a matter of course, if the Stortinget decides on something that I understand all the parties agree on, but as some parties nevertheless vote against, it must be better for the Council of State in the dialogue with the Swedish authorities to have a decision from the Norwegian Parliament to use. One of these proposals is on the move, where the Council of State and the Government almost get carte blanche in terms of what is necessary for resources and appropriations. Such a signal must then be essential for the Council of State to bring with it to the Swedish authorities, that the Norwegian Parliament has said in a cross-political context that this is all the way for both appropriations and what is necessary to speed up this project. Does the Council of State continue to insist that it is immaterial to take decisions in the Norwegian Grand Prix?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1782	Now I think the representative Sandberg is pulling it very far in a direction that I haven't said at all. Of course, it is essential which decisions are taken in the Norwegian Grand Prix. But when it comes to convincing the Swedish Environment Minister and his colleagues that we should go further with Ringdalsfjorden, I think I have strong enough signals with me as it is. I don't think anyone is in any doubt about what the position is on the Norwegian side. With regard to the appropriations for this project, or the other projects to come or, where appropriate, not to come, in the NTP, there is a priority we do when NTP is presented and when it is to be dealt with in the Storting, not through many different individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1789	The chord shift has been completed. The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1794	I think it's a little sad that we're standing here and running almost a pingpong game about a matter that you should initially agree on. It is very important for the industry in Halden to have the entrance to Halden Hafen repaired, and it is a matter that has been going on on the Norwegian side for a long time. The Coastal Museum’s report in its time also showed that this was socio-economically sensible. But that time it all stopped because it required extra resources to work up against the Swedish authorities and meet the requirements that the Swedish authorities had to have for investigation. We also know that the Swedish authorities have a completely different decision-making basis for such cases. It is a unanimous Eastfold county that has worked to put this matter on the map. We have been unanimous and united on the eastern fold bench here on the Stortinget that this is correct. And now we're experiencing some sort of pingpong -- who did what, first and last? The size has to do with the Council of State, which in May last year said that it would be considered to be part of the national transport plan. Then nothing has happened – at least not according to the case documents – with the exception of two internal government notes. Then nothing happens until the Progress Party promotes its proposal for a representative on 12 December last year, and then the letter comes to the Swedish authorities on 20 January. All right with that, if you could put the good intentions behind it. Of course, the size was not aware of what the government might discuss in the back room, but here it is important that we unite the forces in order to get this in place. There is dialogue with the Swedish authorities in a number of other areas in the same geographical area. We're talking about Skanled, with a pipeline possibly going to Eastfold. We are talking about a national park that also touches on the coral reefs previously referred to by the Swedish authorities. So here are opportunities to think more good thoughts at the same time. Therefore, we had hoped that it would be a strength for the Government to take a decision from the Storting, where we could go in together and say that it was important to get these three points repaired in the entrance to Halden, and that at the same time we could also give clear signals that if there is a need for additional resources for investigations required by the Swedish authorities, we are prepared to deal with it when that enquiry comes from the Government. I think it's a little sad when Rudihagen from this pulpit says that the Progress Party almost fishes in a case that the Workers' Party is already working on. But as I said, it's because there are no other signals coming from the government than what has come. Nor is it about overruning our Swedish neighbours. If you read the proposal, you can see that it's about doing to meet the demands of the Swedish authorities. That's what's at the heart of it all. It has been agreed by Norway that we need this correction, and then it is important how we work against the Swedish authorities. Now I fear that this will get into the national transport plan at best, and that nothing will happen at all in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1813	In a line change, there will be very little deep dive. I have to say that I was not very pleased with the answer from the Council of State. In the speech to the Council of State it was said that attaching the protocol or making decisions in the Storting will not be decisive for the matter, and at least not in relation to the negotiations with the Swedish authorities. I insist that it is very defensive, and I also think that the Council of State reinforced this in its response to the signatories in the line change. The Council of State is also in a different trap, because it indicates that, in terms of the question of funding, it is in the national transport plan. In the national transport plan there is not one krona. National transport plan is not an admissibility matter; it is a planning matter. If you are to give money to what comes in the national transport plan, you have to start with it in the 2010 state budget. That's why it's so crucial about this project, even though it comes in the national transport plan as a plan, that we had now reached a decision – a cross-political decision, everyone agrees – that we give carte blanche to the Government to spend the money needed to get this project out. But when the Storting does not, yes, there are still doubts about whether there will be money in 2010, 2011 or 2019, for that matter, for the national transport plan goes over ten years. It is this question of doubt that we could get rid of now, for further dialogue with the Minister of the Environment in Sweden or the Minister of Justice in Sweden or the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Sweden, with all these letters and all these dialogues. That is what had been so important to this Council of States, that the next time you send a letter to a Council of State in Sweden, the Council of State could say in its letter that now I have got the whole Norwegian big thing, cross-political, I have all the necessary tools I can use, and I have carte blanche in relation to spending the money that is needed to get this in place. Then I am absolutely sure that the Swedes, who do not have it very well economically at the moment, would have said that it makes the matter much easier. Then they might have said that then we leave to the Norwegian authorities, to the Norwegian Council of State, to initiate this immediately. But now it's waiting and waiting. Another thing, as the representative Gåsvatn pointed out, concerns statements that came in May last year and until 20 January this year. What has the government done? Have they done anything at all? Because in the letter that came from the Council of State, it is pointed out that it is the last time the Government has taken action in relation to this matter. I would also like to have a clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1824	I would like to encourage the Council of State to look at this in the context of the package of measures. This is, in fact, about measures to give competitiveness to two important large enterprises in this region. Then it's not that it's wise to keep these things apart. This is important in order to strengthen competitiveness, and more than a letter to the Swedish Environment Minister proposing contact at the level of the agency. This needs to be raised at political level and at government level in order for it to gain more power. Then the representative from Gåsvatn asked what had happened from the time Stortingen last took this up. And I think it was just through my written question from May last year, May 2008. It's starting to be a while ago. There is nothing in the letter from the Council of State, which has dated 20 January of this year, which comments on this proposal, and which tells us that there has been a great deal of activity from the ministry. On the other hand, it is established that this case has a long history. We all know that. It is also the case that this government has soon been sitting for four years and has had the opportunity to address matters that they may have thought have been lying in dead water for too long, to get speed on them and to get solutions. There is nothing in this reply letter from 20 January that indicates that this matter has had a particularly heavy and clear focus from the Council of State before it became a new enquiry. Now we hope that it can go faster than the government has been able to show up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1831	Our government, the Stoltenberg II government, is actually the first government to put this issue on the agenda in the last ten years. This is not something we can pay ourselves out of or adopt ourselves out of to the Swedish authorities. We just have to convince them that this is a good project, which does not go beyond the environment in a fjord that they are very concerned about. Then the representative Sandberg is absolutely right that the money we give in the state budget. But the priorities are in the national transport plan. Then, of course, it is tempting to develop individual projects for which you are burning, on a case-by-case basis and from week to week, but we must therefore have an overall priority of all good projects, whether it is Grylfjord port, Stamsund port, Ringdalsfjorden or other fjords, in the national transport plan, which our government is the first government to fulfil and overfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1838	It would have been very good if this case could be decided with final effect here in the hall and the Norwegian authorities had full freedom of action in relation to what was to happen. Unfortunately, it's not like that, because we have our Swedish neighbours, which it's very important to get on the team. Then I think it's a little important for the work to be done, that you try to figure out why the Swedes have been so anxious about this. Some of the explanation for that, I think perhaps one of the most important explanations about it – and this story has a long history – is the following: In the mid-1980s, opposition leader Gro Harlem Brundtland Olof Palme, Swedish Prime Minister at the time, invited Halden to start the Labour Party election campaign in front of the 1985 Grand Election. They sailed under the Svinesund Bridge, into Ringdalsfjorden, and were shown to the Swedish Prime Minister at the time and all his followers how evil it actually was in Iddefjorden and Ringdalsfjorden. Because then it was completely cruel. In fact, Ringdalsfjorden was dead after many decades with completely irresponsible pollution, both from municipal sewage emissions and not least from large and polluting industrial activities. But then a lot has happened since that time. Hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in clean-up measures, which have meant that the introduction of new pollution has virtually stopped. What has happened then – and which is amazing – is that nature and the underwater environment in Ringdalsfjorden and Iddefjorden have come back to what it should be. That's what's amazing about nature's ability to repair previous damage when you stop introducing pollution. Today the Ringdalsfjord is fresh. That's why there's no reason for the Swedes to have that fear and fear that if you cut these underwater thresholds from 9 to 12 meters, i.e. at 3 meters, it will rage out a lot of mud sludge and contaminate down the Swedish coast – because it's gone. I've been diving there myself. I know what it looks like now, and what it looked like that time. So this perspective is very important to bring, because very much of the resistance is based on misunderstandings – which was right once, yes, but which is no longer right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1847	I think it is quite special that the Council of State comes up to the pulpit and says that this is the first government in ten years that takes proper care of this matter, and tries to pretend that it is this government that has taken care of the matter. It is only after we have promoted this proposal for a representative that the matter comes to Stortingen and it really becomes a debate on the matter. It's not like the government has done a lot. As far as I have registered, the letters sent to the Swedish authorities were sent after questions were asked to the Council of State by several representatives, and after this proposal for a representative had been submitted. So I actually think the Council of State should answer whether it is such that the correspondence with the Swedish authorities occurred after this proposal for a representative was presented in Stortinget, or whether it was done before this proposal for a representative was presented in Stortinget and representatives of the opposition parties asked questions to the Council of State earlier in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1854	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1872	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1891	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2203]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1909	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2204]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1927	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2204]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1943	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1952	The development mentioned in this proposition – the two parcels of E6, Værnes–Kvithammar in the municipality of Stjørdal and Nidelv bru–Grillstad in Trondheim – is necessary to provide more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport solutions for E6 in this area. The Progress Party supports the projects: we are in favour of development. I say it loudly and I say it clearly, because the parties that embrace the use of tolls, often tend to claim that the Progress Party is against the projects when we in the Progress Party do not want to use toll financing. The Progress Party is for development based on full state funding. The other batches support the use of tolls to finance the project, and will do so on their own. I refer to the comments of the Progress Party on the matter, and I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, which is an alternative to the vote. The case refers to proposals for a financing plan. Of a total investment total of DKK 3.5 billion – 3500 million – 2770 million will be paid with tolls. That's 79 pst. So almost four fifths of the project is going to be paid by the drivers. But the bill is bigger – much bigger. The bill that the drivers receive in this project is far, far larger than that presented in the case. The collection cost is 220 million. kr. I refer you to the questions asked by the Committee: What is the total cost of financing the project, and how much of it is to be paid by collecting tolls? And: Do such costs come in addition to the declared investment cost? That was the question. Then I refer to the answer, and it says: ‘With the assumptions used in the toll bill, the maximum borrowing for both sub-samplings could be above 2 billion. kr. The total cost of financing has been estimated at more than 800 million. kr to be financed by tolls collected. The financing costs shall be in addition to the declared investment costs.’;» It might be tempting to repeat it: ‘The financing costs are additional to the declared investment costs.’ So they're going to have to add up to 2,770 million. SEK + 220 million. SEK + 800 million. kr, i.e. total NOK 3,79 billion, amounting to 290 million. kr more than the stated cost framework for the entire project of NOK 3,5 billion – not SEK 3700 million. NOK, which we have entered in the setting in case of an error, but in other words NOK 3 500 million. kr. That means the drivers have to pay 108 pst. of the project cost! I have long searched for an appropriate parliamentary expression that can describe this government and this phenomenon in Norwegian transport policy. It is difficult to find a parliamentary description of political robbery. I will carefully remind myself that during this government the use of tolls runs smoothly. With the figures obtained in various ways from both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, we can conclude that the use of tolls is increasing by over 30 pst. under Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete. Political extrusion for the use of tolls is used systematically — no bomb is used. The Progress Party strongly doubts whether local and state politicians are really aware of the extrapolations imposed on businesses and local and regional residents. I refer you to the comments of the Progress Party. We want a full stop toll and an evaluation of this extra tax. The Progress Party has other funding tools to make the country pay and that the drivers are not to buy the way on pay. That is what driving in Norway is forced to do. During the 20-year period 1990–2009 the drivers will have paid more than 55 billion kroner in tolls. It is under the governments of Brundtland, Jagland, Bondevik I and II and Stoltenberg I and II. The Transport Committee was a few weeks ago on a week's round trip in the Nordic countries. The major difference between Norway on the one hand and the Nordic countries on the other is that these countries have a much more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport network than Norway. They have no oil money and no tolls. Norway has been fluttering with oil money and flust with toll projects. We record that the Progress Party is alone in proposing state funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1989	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e1992	With the expansion of the Parsellane Værnes – Kvithammar in the municipality of Stjørdal and Nidelv bru – Grillstad in the municipality of Trondheim, the construction of the E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal will be completed. These are therefore two important projects to achieve a holistic standard on this tribal route. The extension has a doctor waiting. Parsellane was originally part of the decided development of E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal, but was taken out as part of a revised scheme. But it was also then a premise that one should come back to these two end thoroughfare. E6 from Trondheim to Stjørdal is a central part of the main road network in the Trondheim region. It is in a growing area, and traffic forecasts also show high traffic growth in the next few years. It is therefore very good that one now stands before the end of the construction of this distance. The Ministry then also concludes on the proposals of municipalities and counties to extend the collection arrangements to finance the finalisation of the project. In the setting, the Committee's plurality also points out that there is now a local political commitment to continue toll collection on the E6 Trondheim-Stjørdal project in order to co-finance this development. A lot of people are saying that we need to get bigger interrelated expansions instead of these clusters. I mean, a completion of this distance is just in line with that. The proposal points out that the development of E6 Nidelv bru–Grillstad poses major challenges and that due to the complexity of the project, the State Road Service wishes to test out the new form of competition they call ‘competitive dialogue’. In the setting, the majority say that it is good to gain experience with new forms of competition. Otherwise it is also said in the proposition that automatic collection arrangements are assessed when updating existing toll stations. Of course, the majority support this, as we are now all concerned that toll collection is as cost-effective as possible. I have noticed that the Progress Party has also entered into the setting some long standard formulas on toll financing, which we find in the context of almost all toll propositions that we have to deal with here in the house. The representative of Sortevik also underlined that in his article. I'm pretty sure that a polemics or a discussion about these relationships will be a little bit of a repeat of what we've had here before. I just want to say that for the Labour Party, it is important to establish that these two development projects are very important to be carried out, that municipalities and county councils want to have them implemented, and that they have given their support to the funding. It is one thing that road projects must be financed. I have great respect for the fact that the Progress Party believes that it is the state that has to pay it. But the state is not some rich uncle – the state, we are. It's you and me, it's the whole people. The progress party has no money other than ours. It's simply the people's money. If we are to complete all projects in defence-related economic budgets, it must go beyond something else. Other necessary investments or welfare tasks must be decentralised. The progress game will not do that either, they promise almost everything. Then the option is increased tax, and the Progress Party will have less tax. This does not hang completely together. We have annual debates on what is a fair arrangement on the tax system in the country. That's a lot of a different view of it. But at the end of the day, it may not be fairer that those who benefit from a new road have to pay more than those who never use this road.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2011	The right-hand side supports the setting in this case and has no suggestions other than those in the recommendation. This is an important project. It is important now to put in place the parcels that have been mentioned here, namely Nidelv bru–Grillstad and at the other end of Værnes–Kvithammar. What I took the floor for was this, with complex expansion, which has taken part in the committee, and which we have to try to find ways out. It's said that the project E6 east is now starting to finish, but this cannot be the case. The information I have indicates that there is already a traffic on the remaining parcel – i.e. between these two four-field parcels that we are now getting in place – which is 50 pst. above what is the norm for the standard that this road has. There's a lot of growth in the area. Stjørdal is the fastest growing site in the North Trøndelag, and it is very soon necessary to have an extension on the two-field parcel that lies between them, which is between 20 and 25 kilometres. It's 6 to 7 kilometers with tunnels that are the problem there. So I just want to make it clear that when this case was dealt with in Trondheim City Council, the Right had a proposal to see the entire route in context and maybe consider another funding solution, organized either as an OPS project or another solution, which would have progressed throughout the route. It is a proposal we do not raise here today, because today we are talking about a concrete request for a toll. But I want to make it clear that I think this would be a wise course of action in this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2022	Of course, as a government party, we end up with the setting and what Torstein Rudihagen said. What makes me take the floor is the somewhat interesting situation that the Progress Party is trying to appear to be straight and straight in the toll policy. They call the others who charge money, robbers and others, and they say they're for the projects, but the state has to pay. Yeah, for three years they put in position even when it was crazy budget and could do exactly what they say. But did they? Almost not. A couple of roundabouts and 1 million. kr extra for road maintenance in three years was the big result we got when the Progress Party came into position. Then I have to ask Sortevik, who is the case spokesman here: does he think that the Oslo Progress Party is involved in road robbery? They go much further than they do on E6, where a user spends more money than it actually costs. In the Oslo Promskritsparti they stare the SV and the Government in that an actually should use the Billynsto pay the bus ticket! How in every day can the Progress Party be on it from the straight and rank hold a look at Blackvik here in this room? This does not apply in Oslo only. It's in many municipalities where progress party people want results. There gets one of these up to go. Then progress party people say, "We want the road, we want the bus, we want the bike path, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, So I wonder a little bit about the Progress Party's actual policy in this area when there are so many variants. SV is very pleased with the profile that we now seem to get on the toll policy. Not only is it possible for one at Oslopackakt3 to actually use the tolls for the operation of the bus, but in fact one can now also use the EU directive. tolls used to invest in the railways if you wish. It provides great opportunities to do what is the main point of a large majority in Stortinget, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. That's what's the starting point, that a person takes responsibility for the future of the earth and not responsible for superstitious drivers who have to pay something extra to make sure the road gets there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2035	A well-functioning E6 between Trondheim and Stjørdal is important for those who travel along this road daily, and for the development of the region. When today's toll project on the route was agreed, it meant a whole new situation for traffic there – great progress simply. No is the parselle Værnes – Kvithammar and Nidelv bru – Grillstad that remains. That the project is financed using tolls, we in the Center Party can be some of the Progress Party in should be unnecessary ideal, but it is something that is called that the best must not be the enemy of the good. Our task as politicians is, as I see it, among other things. trying to strike a balance between different types of instruments and forms of financing. Mr Sortevik said that he had problems finding a parliamentary expression of what he called a 'political robbery'. The Progress Party wants full government funding for commercial projects, and that is to the extent that we in the Central Party are basically some of them. There is someone who has said that one should not underestimate a man who overestimates himself, and that may also apply to a party. But after what I've got with me, the Progress Party perceives virtually all the collection of taxes and taxes as political robbery. Then you can ask, where should the money for road development come from? I think all of them are some that ideally we should at least make sure that the toll part of the project should be at least possible, but then we also have to see the good in that this distance between Stjørdal and Trondheim is substantially improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2051	There is a need for the lift that this government takes to improve trade in Norway. We need an additional maintenance effort, but it is also decisive with larger investment projects. It will facilitate the development of larger labour markets, but also in order to strengthen the competitiveness of business and increase value creation in the country. In addition, road development with several fields and middle parts is a necessary part of the government's struggle to bring down the traffic emergency room. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004, National Transport Plan 2006–2015, the extension of the Nidelv-Bru-Grillstad and Værnes-Kvithammar parcels for the last six years was considered as timely. When managing St.prp. No 68 for 2006-2007, Stortinget concluded to extend the existing collection scheme to co-finance New Nidelv bridge from Brattøra to Nyhavna. The project will link the Nidelv Bru-Grillstad parcel with the Nordre relief road. Local policy decisions have been taken to extend the collection system of E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal to co-finance the development of the Værnes–Kvithammar and Nidelv Bru–Grillstad parcels. It is thus a broad local policy commitment to part-financing the development of tolls. It's estimated at about 730 million. kr in government funds for the period 2010-2015. The extension covers the construction of approximately 4.5 km of the new four-field road and partly improved road from Nyhavna at Nidelv bridge to Grillstad. Parsellane will be the ring road system around the Trondheim centre together with the bypass, the Nordre relief road and Oslovegen, Marienborg–Sluppen. Furthermore, the extension at the other end includes a total of 5 km of parcel that will start at the departure to the Værnes airport and head northwards below the airport and continue to Whitehammar. The road will be built as a quadruple road and, on parts of the route, will run out of both local and long-distance traffic. It is expected to open up for traffic in 2013. The project will improve traffic congestion in Trondheim, but not least it will be decisive for a good and safe traffic management in Stjørdal. It has been suggested that existing tolling arrangements between Trondheim and Stjørdal are mainly passed on. Today there are toll stations at Ranheim, in Hommelvik and at the launch and launch ramps at Leistad. The collection system is based on electronic collection with AutoPASS, coin vending machines and manual collection. The government is busy having an effective and secure service throughout the country. On routes such as this one, it is necessary to have high-capacity roads to provide for road safety. We have therefore been concerned about highlighting this project, which also helps to improve the long-distance transport of E6. I am pleased that a number of members of the Committee join the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2072	In fact, the Centre Party and the Advance Party share a common concern that toll consumption is increasing. We are also fully aware that with the Central Party in the government, the toll usage continues to increase sharply. It's the rug. First of all, I want to ask the Council of State when we get a more accurate presentation of the costs for the drivers. In this case, we again experience that we need to ask and dig to get the right total cost on the table. I would like to say that it is unreasonable for those who have to pay that they are not clearly, clearly, collectively and completely presenting what the cost of driving lists really is. So in this case, it's 800 million. kr which is in the calculation not mentioned in the proposition. When do we get a presentation of toll cases for Stortinget that clearly shows what the total bill for the drivers is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2077	In the propositions I have made to the Stortinget, Stortinget has been informed in accordance with the legislation that is in place and that has been useful as long as toll proposals have been submitted to the Stortinget. If the Stortinge's plural wants us to change that presentation, of course I'll evaluate it and align myself to what the Stortinge's plural wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2082	In the evening post last Sunday you could read that the Road Service is in shock, and that the Minister of Transport says: ‘This is the first time we have a government that is betting on transportation. We're in front of previous governments with billions. The roadway is in shock!’ Being in shock is not a good state. Then you're often paralysed for action, so I hope the State Road Service isn't. Now every government says that it has granted more money than previous governments, but now leave it. Cross-politically, I hope that we all want to get more money. What reflections does the Minister for Transport make around it? I am thinking about the AutoPASS system. In my naivety, I have actually believed that the AutoPASS scheme would reduce the collection costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2094	I share the representative's views and wishes when it comes to efficient use of the money, and like her, I also believed that the AutoPASS scheme would mean significant savings. The AutoPASS system will do that too, but it has been shown that it is necessary to go through all the images and send out all the invoices that are there. So the big savings that maybe some people saw happen, one hasn't got enough. Now, what's interesting is that several states are in charge of creating state-owned toll companies. Buskerud and Hordaland are first out, and I actively support it. I would also like to see that the use of money in the toll company is being reviewed, and if we do not see that we have a more efficient closure of this work, I will consider a national toll company.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2101	I have to follow up on the first round, as I see it, got a very disappointing and passive response, especially in relation to what I feel the Council of State has clearly stated in the Stortinge before, namely that she wants to have a more comprehensive and comprehensive presentation of what the cost of the drivers really is. The progress party wants it. We want all the bills on the table. So in this case, it's a $800 million bill. kr not mentioned and payable by the drivers. What does the Council of State want? Does the Council of State wish to be informed of the full and full cost of these cases, so that the politicians dealing with them locally, as well as local residents and voters, can become familiar with the bills actually used by tolls as financing tools? It's expensive to buy a way of paying off, but it's also reasonable to tell you what the cost of paying off is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2106	When the OPS project on the E39 of the South Trøndelag was approved, the Progress Party voted in favour. I can not remember that the Stortinget had a different device than what I am proposing today. Nor is it that the Storting is not informed, or that local authorities are not. One knows that by borrowing a toll project, we get a financing cost, similar to what we get when we build a house and finance that house. I believe that all the awake and emerging people in Norway understand that. I don't see us denying any information, neither to local authorities, which of course includes this in their assessments, nor to the Stortinget. Then, of course, you can discuss the form in which this is presented. We can have a dialogue on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2113	I asked for a reply because the Council of State came up with news that she was evaluating a state-owned toll company. It's a new policy. In the previous period, this theme was several times. One of the most opposed parties was the Centre Party, precisely because it is based on local initiatives and interests in Norway. When the council now mentions it, I think it's essential to know how you think it's done. It is true that there are obligations relating to both loans and others in these individual projects. With regard to the debate on AutoPASS, it is right and not surprising for those who have been doing this for a while, that it is very laborious to sit and read these pictures. There are 500 people in Stockholm who read pictures. It is clear that it is very hard to work. You don't solve it with a state company either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2120	What has come up about pay terms, evidence, to some toll companies, has weighty reactions. I see that it can help to weaken the legitimacy of the toll companies and toll companies as a form of financing. I have per cent. today did not consider a national toll company. I have said that I am in favour of doing this in Hordaland and in Buskerud when one considers establishing a county-based toll company, and will also encourage one to stand up. But we are forced to look at the costs that are also involved in the operation of the toll companies, because as I said, it is about the legitimacy of the collection form. So that's my concern. I am busy that there should be local anchoring in these projects. But one of the projects has been completed. Of course, that job might be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2125	In recent times, we have had a discussion – at least there has been a debate – between the north and the south about who is getting money. In this context, there has been a debate on the limit of when tolls can be levied. I would like to challenge the Council of State on that. Now, when you're trying to take advantage of the 100 pst toll potential, does that mean that the government is also going to lower the threshold for areas where tolls can be collected? My second challenge to the Council of State concerns the answer to a previous line. I would like the Council of State to repeat that what is adopted here today has exactly the same device as the OPS project adopted in Trondheim, where, among other things, the Progress Party. provided that the old road would be free of tolls. Will the Council of State continue to claim that there is the same device on what is adopted today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2132	To take the last first. I said that I could not remember that the proposal had a different device when one informed about the composition of the funding. That's what the question was about, nothing else – just so it's clarified. Lowering the threshold for tolls does not have a concrete government position. Toll suggestions come as well as local government proposals. The local authority assesses whether this is justified and, of course, together with the specialist authorities in the State Road Administration, an assessment of different projects is made, whether there is a basis for it or not. Things that come to my table are already as assessed by the State Road Administration in municipalities and county councils, the decisions are made, and they should be financed according to a financial plan. That is why it has not been a debate in which I have considered lowering the limit or level. That being said, I must say that there are actually tolls in North Norway as well. There is also a fuel tax in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2139	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2145	It has been quite interesting to follow in the media, and also to register here from the pulpit, the different representatives' argument about this with tolls. First of all, the representative Jenny Klinge was up here and said that the Senterpartiet basically wants road construction without tolls – and in the program for the Centerpartiet it says that tolls should be a supplement. I don't think so many people experience that it's a supplement. Or you can hear from Torstein Rudihagen who says that this is an important part of our Community tasks, and therefore you have to be involved in financing this road development in terms of tolls in order to get the projects up to date. But I want – because I record that this is always interesting – to go through the list to see what the relationship actually is. In 2005-2006 we dealt with the Atlantic Tunnel with a financial envelope of 815 million. kr – 118 pst. payable by the drivers, 2004–2005 The Bergen programme is SEK 5.3 billion – 71 pst. payable by the drivers, 2005–2006 Hardangerbrua SEK 2.2 billion – 97 pst. shall be financed by the drivers, 2005-2006 Finnfast 750 million. kr – 127 pst. payable by the drivers, Langåker – Bomb city in 2005–2006 DKK 1.2 billion – 158 pst. must be paid by the drivers, etc. 306 Church Hill in Westfold 310 million. kr – 196 pst. are to be paid by the drivers, Utgårdskilen 26 million. kr – 133 pst. shall be paid by the drivers, revised Tromsøpacket 216 million. kr – 39 pst. must be paid by the drivers, etc. 255 Jørstadmoen 252 million. kr – 150 pst. to be paid by the drivers, New Hooker Island Connection 615 million. kr – 144 pst. to be paid by the drivers, Road Package Salt 551 million. kr – 112 pst. are to be paid by the drivers, the Haugalands Pack 2.5 billion kroner – 97 pst. is payable by the drivers, in the aggregate proportion of 2006-2007 it is set at 166 million. NOK – 177 pst. will be financed by the drivers, Eastfold Package DKK 1.72 billion – 118 pst. must be paid by the drivers, etc. 567 in Hordaland 194 million. SEK – 68 pst., E6 Gardermoen – 101 pst., Jondaltunnelen 760 mill. kr – 22 pst. shall be financed by the drivers, the Frejekai of the Year 80 million. kr – 71 pst. will be financed by the drivers, the T-connection 1.4 billion DKK – 65 pst. shall be paid by the drivers, the Rya connection 250 million. kr – 71 pst. to be paid by the drivers, Oslopackak 3 54 billion kroner – 83 pst. will be paid by the drivers, NOK 10.8 billion will go to the operation of public transport and NOK 10.8 billion will also be paid by the drivers to invest in this. In addition, the drivers pay over 50 billion kroner in taxes and taxes on cars and in car-related taxes, and it is still believed that the type of funding that the tolls provide is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2154	As far as we can count, this is the 24th time that the Stortinge under this government deals with toll financing. For the 24th time, therefore, all other parties in the Stortinget will approve toll financing. It is then for the 24th time that the National Assembly of the country recommends that the drivers buy their way on payment. Most people know that it's expensive to buy on payment. And if I remember pretty much how the council expressed this, it was that most people know that money has to be borrowed when you're building, implicitly also for road installations. But there I think she's actually wrong. I think the few are aware that when those who are drivers are forced to pay the bill for state road development, they are going to make a solid contribution to the investment sum itself, with large costs related to collecting the money. There is now one side of the case, it is expensive enough, but they also have to make a large contribution to raising so-called building loans or project loans. I actually don't think people are aware of that. And I think it's inconvenient not to disclose it in a clarifying and clear way, so that people are aware of what they're actually going to pay. It is possible that when you don’t want to talk too much and too much information about it, it’s for the same reason that you refuse to have a local referendum on important projects financed by tolls. It has previously been rejected by the Council of State here in the Chamber, and is characterised as a dilution of democracy – asking the citizens of municipalities and regions to be consulted if they want to be invited to pay the bills of the State. That is what the Progress Party believes is a wrong attitude. We want the people concerned to have the opportunity to express what they think, but unfortunately they rarely get the opportunity to do so. But it gives me the opportunity in this post to show that, in one case, it is actually on its way to the Stortinget as a toll project, namely the Sotra connection between Sotra and Bergen, a thorough and representative survey has been carried out in one of the municipalities concerned, namely the Mountain Municipality of Hordaland. There is a clear and clear majority who say no to accept tolls as part of the financing of a future link. When they are given the opportunity to comment, the answer is quite clearly rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2161	Now I'm going to take 3 minutes to fill in the list for the representative Hoksrud – no. The representative Hoksrud forgot a project, and that is what we are dealing with here – Trondheim – Stjørdal SEK 3.5 billion – 108 pst. with tolls. The content of my post will be corrected slightly differently from that of the sitting government. I'll brag a little bit of the government, because it's at least honest. It's sincere. Even the Center Party is sincere in that they break their batch program and that they are very offensive in terms of tolls. The center party is honest and admits that they have increased the toll usage by 30 pst. in relation to the previous government. But what's unreasonable is that someone in this room appears to be a toll opponent when they speak to journalists in the whole country, for example the Tende from the Left, who today, in a statement in the Address Paper, says that she is “much tired” by the sitting government and their toll usage. I think that's unreasonable. I can say the same about the Halleraker representative, who almost makes it as if the Right is against tolls. The right as a party and Halleraker as a representative are the most offensive in terms of using tolls. But now we have time to explain it to the elections on 14 September. I also think it is unreasonable that, even if you feel pressured in an infrastructure debate and do not have the tools presented by the Progress Party, which you agree with, but you vote against – such as. that the right wants multi-annual budgets, as expressed in the press and the media, but votes against in this Chamber. If, in the end, it results in the other parties joining these proposals, I shall be very pleased. But then you should say it. Then you should do like the Christian People's Party and the representative Sahl, who has got their big group in place to join the Progress Party's proposal to find new tools. It is a group of parties and representatives, minus the Progress Party, who have supported all these toll projects. Then you can't go around worrying because many of this money goes to other things. That's what you've done yourself. So a recommendation and a call to the Council of State. I hope it's right, what was said in the change of line here, that the government is at least clear about not lowering the threshold now, because now there can be many more toll projects, when the administrative reform is going to take effect and the highways are going to be moved to the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2176	There was no time in the previous round to comment on any of the posts that were given after my start post. To the representative of Klinge, who is now coming later, who asks where the money for road construction will come from: they will come from the state. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is a State task to finance state road construction. The state is rich and has money, so road construction in Norway – the national road network – is to take place with government money. The representative, Langeland, is wondering about a lot. The representative of Langeland is right in one thing, and it was not easy under the previous government to get a transport policy as the Progress Party wants. We have recorded that, and we have included that. We are also struggling to get the parts that are now in government to see that there are other tools that we can use that actually make it unnecessary tolling to finance the state's roads. But then maybe the big difference between these two governments is that this government has other wants with its toll usage. It is to dampen or stop traffic, prevent mobility, make it more difficult for business to move goods, services and personnel, make it more expensive for business to move goods, services and personnel and use extra taxes through tolling and tolling systems for completely different purposes than expanding the road network. It is the Stortinget that takes decisions on the financing of state roads. That is why this is both the fight and the debate. This is where decisions are taken, regardless of the history of each project. This is where the decisions are taken, and here the Progress Party proposes that the State pay for the state's roads. So finally to the representative Rudihagen, who thinks it's perfectly okay that someone should pay more than others to use a road, and points out that there is no rich uncle – if I understood him correctly. Well, the rich uncle is all of us. We have money, we are one of the richest countries in the world. Once again, I have to go back to this paradoxical image we find in the Nordic region, with three other Nordic countries that have neither oil funds nor extensive use of tolls, but that have a completely different road network and a completely different network than we are in the vicinity of having. During the period they have built this up, Norway has become richer and richer, the oil fund is bigger and bigger and Norwegian roads are worse and worse. So we can do something about this by using the funding tool of the Advance Party. Then we can build roads without using tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2191	There's a tendency that there'll be some action every time there's toll debates in this room. As I mentioned in my previous article, one should not necessarily underestimate a man or a party that overestimates itself. The party of progress will basically cut off all taxes and taxes, that's what their big promise is. When the Progress Party owes us in the Center Party to break our party program when it comes to tolls, I personally wonder which parts of their own Party programme the Progress Party will break if they are to complete all the projects that are now toll projects. The representative Hoksrud made an impressive attempt to frame all the toll projects and levels of the toll parts of them instead and managed, as far as I understood, in exactly three minutes. But I'm going to promise that if I started ramming up everything that's actually fully funded by the state, I would have been here for a long time at night. Nor should one forget that the state stands for an incredible amount of road construction and railway construction in this country. Even if we never discuss tolls so much – I agree in principle that we should avoid it – we should not forget all the good we do after all. And – as I said instead – one should not do the best for the good enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2200	I would like to thank the representative Sandberg for giving me the opportunity to elaborate on what I have said to the evening post – I have not spoken to the address paper, I have not said anything to it. I can reassure the representative Sandberg that the Left's policy is firm. The left has been and remains positive to locally initiated toll applications. As a result, many important transport projects have seen the light of day. There have been locally-initiated projects which have even been without State aid, where county, municipality and ferry subsidies have financed the projects. This is a kind of splinter and virtue that is in the spirit of the Left. Then I am glad that the Progress Party supports Oslopackak 3, at least they have done it locally, and I expect the party to be linked and that they will also support it here in Stortinget when it comes here. Oslopackakt 3 will lead us to collective projects that are important in Oslo-Akershus, and we will get important environmental tunnels to protect the surrounding environment. Then I still believe – and I'm going to talk more about it in the future – that it is important that we get the most out of taxpayers' money. I have been very clear about that here in the reply to the Council of State, where I encouraged her – I will continue to do so – to look at how you can get more money, and how it can go less to administration and collection. It promised the Council of State here today, and I'm going to follow it closely. The left has used and wants to spend a lot of money on the way, and we've spent 294 million. kr more for road safety and maintenance. I think that the most important thing we do with transportation can do is drive traffic safety. That's why I'm going to talk a lot about it in the future, including in connection with the treatment of NTP. Physical middle parts cost a lot of money – it is not the middle parts that cost money, it is the extension of the road, several times and bike paths are very important, and racial protection is important. Finally, I just want to say that I stand by what I have said. I want more money, and I want to spend money on road safety, walking and cycling paths and other important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2211	There's something predictable and safe and recognizable about these toll debates in this room and in this committee, and you can stay a little bit on that, I would almost say, if you want to spend a lot of time on it. But in fact, I believe that, in respect of the rest of the Storting perhaps, we should gradually lead these kinds of debates to a larger and wider debate, which we shall have when NTP comes, not have these debates in all the toll cases that come. I will actually go so far as to say that I think that the article to Hoksrud had nothing to do in this debate. He did not mention the case in a single word, and it is in fact stated in Section 38 that one should do so, one should deal with the matter. In the case of Right-wing Toll Policy, which Sandberg tries at different angles of incidence to try to weaken, and eventually suspects, there is no hocuspocus or anything suspicious about it. We've said that so infinitely many times. It is explicitly stated in our programme that we are in favour of the projects promoted by local teams. We are on that – I think we are quite a lot about that in this room. Then he pulls me out like the one that's most for tolls, for some reason. That's what I think is charming. I expect that it may be my background before I came into the Stortinget, as the CEO of a company, which makes him fall for that temptation. Then I must say that I am very proud of the job we did in that company. We replaced four ferries, got fixed connections. It's paid down in two to three years, four years before time, and when it's done, people don't pay at all, unlike having to pay on ferries in the future. I think that is a good example of how wise decisions have been made in this room, as is happening today. Right-wing policy, we're going to take care of ourselves, and even if the Progress Party has proposals in many contexts, that doesn't mean we're jumping on everyone. We have our policy under constant design, and that is what we are going to have in terms of transport policy as well. In fact, our party has its own transport plan under development, and there we're going to come up with a lot of new, exciting solutions, which I think will help us get more, better and faster road development in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2220	I agree with the representative Halleraker that there is a lot of reprisal in this. Now I haven't browsed through all the options in connection with toll propositions, but I think it's also 24 times the Progress Party inserts some long standard formula on tolls. And that's a principle discussion in itself, because it's very easy to say that one is against tolls. It's very easy to say when you're talking to people who smoke, that one is against the big taxes on tobacco. It is easy to say to one who is going to buy a house, that one is in return for a document fee. It is to a large extent easy to say that the tax on labour is too high, and many think that one should not, to a large extent, have property taxes in this society. But all of this is part of a major fiscal debate, and then I would say that the most important thing for all governments to govern this country is to have good financial management, so that one has control of both the dollar and interest rates. After all, everyone is going to get involved, both business and individuals in this society. So, when it comes to state aid, we can discuss: How much money can a user take in the state budget? For all of this, I see that there's a discussion that's quite easy to take. In fact, in high economic cycles, things have to keep going a little bit, and when the economy is down, one can spend more money. This is now done by this government through the various action packages. I have said before that I believe that the relatively larger part of the state budget is a user of investment and, among other things, of investment. infrastructure and communication that improves the efficiency of business and society, the longer it is possible to secure this limit on the amount of money that can be spent. But anyway, we'll end up with a frame. Then there will be a drag fight – and we have to be honest about it – between different sectors and the different needs of society that need to be balanced against each other, and that is the way in which transport will eventually be accompanied by a framework. Our task is to make the most of what has been the policy objectives of transport within the framework: improving the cost of transport, reducing road accidents, environmental emissions, etc. The actual ratio is that without this addition, the supplement of tolls, we would have done less. And that's the way it's going to be in the future, even though we're going to bet a lot more on traffic. And even if there's more of the government money, you'll necessarily get more if you open a car list to pay tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2231	The background for not mentioning E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal, which is funded by 108 p.m., is that I was the last one on the list, and there was no more time left after 3 minutes to frame all the toll projects. But now it's time. I am also pleased to see the record afterwards, because I registered, nor did the representative Halleraker know anything at all about the project E6 Trondheim – Stjørdal. So you might have to make sure you get into that case yourself. I have to go back to the representative Jenny Klinge, who was very interested in finding out that there were many government projects. Yeah, I really get that hope, because that's the whole point. We also want more state funding for road development in this country, and we believe that we are doing well with the tools we have shown. We have an infrastructure fund, we transform the Railway Agency and the State Road Service into companies that can finance, among other things. E6 development Trondheim – Stjørdal, as they can do with all other projects. And then you get a state full funding, instead of going forward in the way that this government does. With almost $20 billion, they have financed it in these four years by financing new toll projects. The previous government, the Bondevik II government, had projects for about 14 billion kroner. So at least there is no doubt that there has been a strong growth with the red-green government, in the form that the drivers will be skinned even more – in addition to the 50 billion kroner they are already being skinned for. If you take away the tolls, it's approx. 50 billion kroner in taxes, taxes and VAT on cars and car-related taxes, which are now included in the driving lists, which also have to be included in the calculation. The drivers pay a lot more than they should have paid. If you had used the money that you actually took from the drivers, for road purposes, you would have got the world's best infrastructure network, you would have got the world's best road network. It would probably have been possible to get both the world's best rail network and everything else in infrastructure with as much money as the drivers already pay in terms of taxes and taxes. In other words, there is a political majority, all parties with the exception of the Progress Party, who think it is quite right to continue the fleeting of the drivers by over DKK 19 billion in the last four years' toll project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2240	My intention was to get someone to feel a little touched, or at least described in such a way that you felt a little pressured – and I got an answer to that. I can say to the representative Tend that the Left and the representative will never be able to calm me down no matter what they have to do, because the Left has proved more than any other party that they are totally indestructible in terms of infrastructure – having had the Minister of Transport for two periods and presenting a national transport plan that would have been valid for the last four years, which had been a disaster for this country. If the national transport plan presented by Torild Skogsholm in its time were to apply, we would certainly have had major problems. And then you forget it. To Oslopak 3: No, as Mr Sortevik and others have said here earlier today, Oslopak 3 will be adopted in this Chamber, and the Progress Party will vote no, and we will find alternative funding for it. We're never going to jump on that. I think it's a parody when the left says they're too much to do. To the representative Halleraker: No, of course, I had no idea what the representative Halleraker has done privately in business. I take note of what Mr Halleraker has to say about the issues we are dealing with in this Chamber, and there is the Halleraker and the Right offensive and has voted in favour of all 24 projects. That's what I'm referring to when I say that Halleraker and Right are some of the most offensive, including the public, in the press and the media. The representative Rudihagen makes a little fool of – I don't know if it was conscious, or what it was – that the Progress Party has standard formulations. Yes, these are the same things, and I see that the position has exactly the same standard formulas, they also. They join all possible toll projects. They have done so in 24 projects, while the Progress Party has done the opposite. We want state funding, and then we're done, and we say no to the tolls. Then to the representative Klinge. I don't know if I can calm the representative, but we're not going to break our program. We have all these tools, and we have said that in 25 years we are going to implement an infrastructure policy that will give us a forward-looking, modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly infrastructure. In fact, other countries have. Nordic countries have 30 year plans. The Progress Party has a 25-year plan. We're going to do that, especially when we don't build a railway from Narvik to Tromsø, which the Center Party wants, and when we don't build a high-speed train, which Right wants. Then we get a lot of money available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2253	I understand that tolls are in for the Progress Party to be clear again. It's almost like you're wondering if there's Islamists that are behind this with the way that one argues. At least it is back to basics when it comes to strategy, I understand. But there are a few things: SV is for more tolls in the cities because we'll get some traffic off the roads. In fact, climate reconciliation is also that, so that business can make more money. The Progress Party in Oslo governs the city, and there are truck owners who lose DKK 100 000 per year because they are in line because of progress party policy – DKK 100 000 per year progress party policy imposes on private business. Then they owe us to skin the business. It's completely wrong. That's what the Blackvik road party does. In fact, SV has support from the NHO when it comes to alcohol duty. We have support from the loading car owners when it comes to the charge of the rush time. I think it's going to be the solution for Oslo and other big cities, not only to do something about the climate problem, but also to help business make more money. So Blackevik hasn't even made this clear to me: he calls toll robbery. So robbery is illegal. But then what Peter N. Myhre and party member Siv Jensen is doing in Oslo must be robbery. Then I have to ask, what is the penalty for robbery?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2263	To the previous speaker, the representative was right away when we treated Oslopackak 3 for a while back in Stortinget. The answer is probably the same. It is the Stortinge that adopts the funding. The Progress Party will have State funding, and the Progress Party in Oslo is not in the majority who want bombing in Oslo. There is another majority who want it, and that majority does not include the Advance Party. We notice that SV is honest and clear that they want more tolls. That's okay, and that's clarifying. Our response to what is being tried to justify, namely, climate considerations and a perceived concern for business, is that we should have a well-functioning road system, including the ring road system around the big cities. It will work both in terms of transport and the environment. A little visit to the representative Rudihagen, who in a well-known working party style uses as an explanation that it is important to have control of the exchange rate and interest rate. I believe that the other Nordic countries have the same desire and concern, and that in their national economies they will have control over their own exchange rate and interest rate developments. But they've wrongly made it clear at the same time that they've built up a completely different railway and road network. So it actually works out. And then it might be a little bit weird when the representative Rudihagen is worried about the boom, that it's a problem. We're struggling with the exact opposite, but let go. If we take that challenge, my answer is that then the representative Rudihagen digs himself into old-fashioned socio-economic theory. There are many economists in time – and we are not going back so far in time for this cover – who have shown and pointed out that there are differences in how to spend money. There's a difference between eating up the money, spending it on 12 months, and using it to invest in infrastructure that's 50 to 100 years old. Many economists have pointed out that even in high economic conditions in Norway, there has been room to spend a significant number of billions more a year building infrastructure in Norway without going beyond the dollar and interest rates. So it's possible if you want to. This is my message to the representative Rudihagen. But then you have to distinguish between spending and investment, as the Progress Party wants. You have to use state loans to expand the major stages and major corridors, as the Progress Party will. In addition, the budgets need to be increased, as the Progress Party will.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. [[Footage, see page 2204]] The meeting will be cancelled, and the meeting will be resumed at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2308	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2317	Rv. 80 is the gateway to the state capital of Bodø and is one of the most important entry points in the Nordic state. In the municipality of Bodø it lives today approx. 47 000 inhabitants, and there is an ever-growing municipality. Bodø City is a housing, employment and service region for the municipalities of Salten, a total of nine municipalities, which together have 76 000 inhabitants. There is a lot of traffic on the route, and that is among other things. 800 larger vehicles per 24 hours and approx. 10 000 in total -- that's not small. The line has two special points which have an increased risk of road breakage. It's Horsesunden Bru – or, as we say, Hope Bru – and Hopshamran. Brua is 60 meters long and 5.5 meters wide, and it was built in 1947. Brua was hardly intended for the traffic that is today. I guess there weren't many cars back then. On 1 November 2008, the state was so critical that the bridge was downgraded from roadgroups A to B. It was also decided to take short-term measures to implement an on-site emergency bridge. On 13 February 2009, not many days ago, the reserve bridge was opened for traffic, which runs parallel to today's bridge. Traffic is now on the temporary bridge and the Horse Sound, or Hope, bridge is closed. The reserve bridge has two fields and no axle load limitations. Reserve Brua will provide an offer to current road users in the short term. The stretch is narrow and exposed to stone and, among others, isra. The range is considered to be a race point, and it is approximately 40 meters long distance in the road. Which is most desirable and which it is working with in relation to Rv. 80 is adding rv. 80 except for Hopen via a new bridge connection, between Løding and Vikan, a new Hopenbru. This kind of conversion will also lead to avoiding the rascal distance on today's rv. Eighty-eight. I would also point out that a conversion of this distance will shorten the distance between Fauske and Bodø. The government’s priorities for the main road network from 2010 onwards will be promoted in NTP 2010 to 2019. I also point out that the government's priorities for Rv. 80 between Fauske and Bodø during the planning period will need to be seen in the context of local work on planning the scale and content of the forthcoming phases of the Road Package Salt. One thing I want to say: the reserve bridge must be a short-term solution. A reserve bridge is a reserve bridge, and it shall also be usable at any other location in such a critical situation. This must therefore be a short-term and temporary solution. Getting a good and safe transport solution is very important – not least for commuters and for the transport of food. We've had a lot of discussions about tolls today. The Salt Road Package is also a toll project. But I haven't heard the big protests against wanting to finance both Salt Package 1 and Salt Package 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2332	Unlike the previous case, I will manage with one post, and probably a short post. The rapporteur has set out in an excellent manner why the Progress Party is promoting the proposal on which this debate is based. There is a need for a better connection than a spare bridge. There is also a need for a fixed, new bridge connection quickly in place. The Progress Party believes that the safest way to achieve this is that, in the context of the 2009 revised national budget, the State already allocates the necessary funds. In line with that, we are promoting proposals in two points. I am sorry that we are alone on the solution. But we have a common description of an acute transport problem. I will deal with the proposal in two points.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2341	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2344	The case spokesperson has done his best for the government party in this matter. As he said, the reserve bridge was opened on 13 February. On the 13th of March, the NTP will be presented, and then one will come back to different things related to the Bodø area. The reason why I take the floor is that the red-green parties have recently received a letter from Bodø, which has also been sent to the Minister for Transport. There is a desire to participate in the reward scheme for public transport. What characterizes this area is the enormous carmism, the huge emissions from carmism and the very bad collective part, much worse than in e.g. Tromsø. Tromsø people take the bus four times as much as Bodø people. This means that there has to be a lot of effort, both to build up the railway in the area and to get more stations, for example. in the cross country, and to improve the bus supply, and perhaps also look at an urban railway solution. The reason I'm dealing with this is that the different group leaders from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party point out in their letter that we simply have to do something dramatic to bring down car traffic. We must not bet on further construction of a quadruple road. We don't have to set up any more car traffic. We have to have a policy in this area that makes people choose the means of collective transport. That is my point – a clear message to the Bodø region: Yes, SV would like to follow up the initiative they are asking for in the letter, but one has to do a job locally to get people to travel collectively and climate-friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2353	The collapse of Hope Bridge on Rv. 80 between Løding and Vikan is a good example of the great aftermath we have on the maintenance of the road network in our country. Rv. 80 is the entrance route to Bodø and one of the most traffic-laden routes in North Norway, and Saltenpakket 1 and 2 will contribute to a significant standard lifting of parts of the road between Fauske and Bodø, including a new Hopen bridge. It's just a shame that the bride broke together before the newborn could be in place. There is reason to commend both the Regional Road Manager and the Minister that we were able to get the temporary bridge in place on 13 February of this year in such a quick and straightforward way. So the planning of the new bridge is going on. The Christian People's Party added 20 million. In addition to the Government's budget for the maintenance of Hopen Bru, so that work on the new bridge could begin as soon as possible. Moreover, the Christian People's Party will come back strongly to, among other things. Salt package 2 and Hope bridge in connection with the national transport plan. Since I did not participate in the big debate on toll financing before we took a break, I will just take a short walk into that topic without resuming that debate. I am a little surprised at the proposal of the Progress Party this time. It was a matter of government parties and, among other things, government parties. The Christian People's Party has voted in favour of toll financing 24 times in this period. At the same time, the Progress Party has promoted similar proposals in 24 cases. The Minister’s letter of reply now states that the planning of the new Hopenbru package to be included in the Salten package and discussed in the national transport plan is under way, and that it must be expected that at least one and a half years will pass before you can at all be on the bridge. Then I am somewhat surprised that point II of the proposal from the Progress Party chooses to re-write: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for State full funding of the project under the Revised National Budget 2009.’» It's not possible, however much you would have wanted, to start this bridge in 2009. But I assume that the Advance Party has so much money that you can just take it in advance. If not, I would like an explanation of why.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2373	I would like to rent by saying quite frankly that the interim bridge in the Hopen in Bodø, which is a temporary substitute for today's Horse Sound Bridge, Hopenbrua, is now open for traffic. Brua was opened on February 13th this year. It has been a high priority to put a temporary bridge in place as quickly as possible. The interim bridge has two fields, it has no axle load limits and will provide a satisfactory supply to current road users in the short term. In the longer term, however, it is highly inconceivable to lay down rv. 80, except for Hopen, through a new bridge between Lødning and Vikan, a new cluster bridge. This will, in addition to replacing the old bridge, avoid the rassed distance of the day's rv. 80 through Hopshamran west of Hope. At the same time, a new bridge connection will mean a curtailment between Fauske and Bodø in relation to today's road. Work is in progress on the planning of the new Hope Bridge. Municipal sub-plan for a new bridge to connect to rv. 80 is signed. The work on the regulatory plan is in a start-up phase. The regulation plan is expected to be completed in 2009, with a record of political management in the municipality of Bodø. The Government’s priorities for the Tribal Road Network from 2010 onwards will be presented in the National Transport Plan Storing Message for 2010–2019. Development of Rv. 80 between Fauske and Bodø must be seen in conjunction with the local work on upcoming phases of the Salt Road Package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2387	That is precisely the conclusion of the Council of State's submissions. The Party of Advancement is concerned and disagrees. This is a special project. It is such that one of the most important infrastructure measures to such a large city as Bodø, which many depend on daily commuting to and from the city, simply collapses and needs to be replaced by a temporary bridge – which is correctly opened, and that is good. But it is deplorable to note that the infrastructure is so poor that a permanent old bridge has to be replaced by a temporary emergency solution. That is why we believe it must be right in cases like this, that the state clearly signals that this will finance the state – not in a future toll package, but this is what the state sees as its clear responsibility to finance. And I'm going to challenge the Council of State on: why shouldn't and shouldn't this be a clear government task to fund a hundred percent?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2392	Firstly, I would say that paragraph II of the proposal from the Progress Party is an impossibility. It is not possible to start the project in 2009 – I forgot to include it in my article. Then there is today a Road Package Salt that wants to be carried out locally, and it is quite natural that one in connection with the construction of this bridge sees it in context. Then we will come back to how the financial responsibility will be in this specific project. I have not taken the position as per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2400	It is fully possible, if you will, to give a clear commitment that full funding will be provided by state resources to an important part of the infrastructure in Bodø City, which has in fact collapsed and replaced with a temporary solution. Of course, it is quite possible for a government that has increased toll financing by 30 p.m. to give the answer that the Council of State has now given, namely that this must be part of a toll package. But what characterizes a lot of toll packages is that you lift an existing road network that's in use and that's useful. So here we have a special situation where the old one is not useful, and we're replacing it with an emergency solution. That's still our starting point. It is still the view of the Progress Party that it must be possible to give an undertaking that the State will completely replace a permanent plant which is useless because of its maturity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2405	I have seen after the debate earlier today that regardless of the background of a toll project, the Progress Party has decided to say no to it, whether it is due to triggering, upgrading or extension. And it is so that no matter what one builds a road today, he replaces a worn-out one, which has been too small and too narrow. That's why tolls are made. That's why we've increased the journey time by NOK 15 billion from the previous period to this period - we've spent more than 15 billion dollars. So I'm going to hear the progress part repeats that we've increased the tolls. Yes, we have, also to finance the toll project that was adopted in the previous period, because they dragged us into this period. So that's what we're going to do, and we're going to continue to do that. We're going to continue to present projects – many projects – that are going to get a lot of activity in Veg-Noreg, because it's people busy, and it wants people around in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2412	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 15th [[Footing, see page 2204]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2430	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2439	The Committee has examined proposals from the representatives of the depositors Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik and Bård Hoksrud for an investigation into the possible extension of the Flytrain to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge. The majority, at the government parties, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, refer to the Council's letter of reply in its comments in the setting, where it, among other things, it appears that, in the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, there is no need for a separate investigation work now related to dedicated air trains connections to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge. Instead, the possibility of a future train offer adapted to the needs of air passengers should be assessed on an ongoing basis in the regular manner of laying down the railway development strategy in the southern parts of the intercity area. This will include, among other things: be working towards NTP 2014-2023. In addition, the issue needs to be assessed in the light of market developments, i.e.: the passenger growth of the two aerodromes and possible future conversions/airfield extensions in that context. In particular, in view of this, the majority of the vote proposes that the proposal be rejected. The right, Christian People's Party and Left point out that plans are being made for a new air terminal at Sandefjord Airport, with an integrated station on the Westfold Railway, and further that it is possible to imagine a connection between Moss Airport Rygge and a future high-speed rail through Eastfold towards Sweden. The Parties support the intention of the proposers to facilitate a modern, safe and environmentally friendly transport network in the Eastern region, including through: increased railway investment but indicates that the Flytog AS is a pure traffic company operating on a commercial basis on the route Asker-Gardermoen. The parties point to the fact that the Council’s response letter states that there is a far-reaching market basis for a dedicated air train offer between, for example: Oslo and Torp, and that the Fly train itself has pointed out that today there is no market base for a dedicated flight offer either to Rygge or to Torp. The right, Christian People's Party and Left also point out that the Flytognet AS has expressed its ambition to expand its commercial activities by operating more of the intercity traffic in the East and that such an extension of its operations can be seen in the context of the establishment of a strengthened air train offer to the Eastern regional airports under the auspices of the Airtrain AS. The lots indicate that it requires upgrading the infrastructure of the intercity triangle. The parties also point out that the commitment to train operation on a commercial basis through the Airtrain AS has been a success. The airline AS can show good results through great satisfaction among its customers and employees. The flight was assigned to Norway’s best place of work in 2008 through the ‘Great Place to Work’ survey and to Norway’s strongest marker through the BI customer survey in 2008. The parties are in favour of the Airtrain AS seeing new opportunities for train operations in rail passenger transport, and believe that it should be facilitated to allow the Airtrain AS to expand its operations. The parties also point out that this can be done regardless of whether or not the work on rail competition is continued. However, for the Left, it is important that the transfer of train operation from the NSB must be based more on competition. And then I challenge the Advance Party a little bit when it comes to something that's in the setting on page 3. In one column it says that they want the Fly train to travel on existing networks, while in the next column it says that they want a separate trajectory with a long tunnel. I would like to challenge the Progress Party on what they really think, on whether the Fly train should be on existing track, or whether they want a new trajectory and a long tunnel for the Fly train. Finally, I believe that the proposers and the other parties will promote their views on the matter. I bring this up with the proposals where the Left is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2467	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2470	The case spokesperson had a very thorough review of the setting and what is then the plural setting. So for my sake, I'm going to be pretty short. Rail is a central part of the current national transport plan, and there is no reason to believe that it will be a less central part of the forthcoming transport plan, which will be presented in March. The size will then have ample opportunity to discuss the structure of the railway network and the accommodation services to airports until the club falls – probably on 11 June. Good collective provision for airports is important. What one sees, is that the offer means a lot to how people choose to travel. 62 pst. benefits from public transport to Gardermoen. This is a good example of how a good offer can have a very good effect. Lower traffic volumes make it difficult to create an equally attractive collective offer for Rygge and Torp, which is the theme of this proposal. However, there is good collective provision to and from Torp and Rygge, including by train. Torp, the largest of the two airports, now has its own hold on the Vestfold Railway. It provides passengers with an attractive train offer that many travellers have chosen to take advantage of. The government supported a proposal from the Vestfold County Council and proposed financing the new St.prp holding site. No 24 for 2007-2008. This year, it is estimated that more than 100,000 travellers will benefit from this holding space. With the relatively small traffic volumes of Torp and Rygge, it's probably not much time, as I see it, with the flight connection detached from the train traffic, or else. But we can continue this discussion when the national transport plan comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2485	In the Gardermoen-Sandefjord-Moss triangle, the East has now three airports. In Norwegian aviation, traffic has increased sharply until the end of 2008. Although traffic growth has now stopped for a period, it appears that growth will continue in the future. In addition, passenger transport by aircraft is important, both in the case of transport within the country and in the case of transport to and from Norway. Sandefjord Airport Torp was per year. 31 December 2007 the seventh largest airport in the country, measured in total number of passengers. Of the seven largest airports, Sandefjord Airport had Torp the highest growth. Exclusive transfer and transit passengers are Sandefjord Airport Torp country's fifth largest. The distance from Oslo is approx. 100 km. The NSB’s Vestfold Railway runs the Oslo–Sandefjord–Skien tour–return route. In 2008, the station opened Torp, which is located on the Westfold Railway between Stokke and Sandefjord. From Torp station there is a shuttle bus to and from the airport to all trains. Moss Airport Rygge is centrally located in Eastfold and is newly opened. With new terminal construction, new infrastructure, parking and runway, the airport is specially organised for a wide range of national and international scheduled and charter services. The distance from Oslo is approx. 60 km. The NSB regional train also has frequent departures to Rygge. From Oslo S and Halden trains go every hour on weekdays. Rygge Station is 4 km away. We also believe that having the two smaller airports Rygge and Torp in addition to the main airport at Gardermoen is a proper strategy for aviation in the East, and it can help to postpone the need for a third runway on the Gardermoen. At the same time, it is a challenge to ensure that all three airports become good transport nodes. We therefore believe that direct links between airport and modern rail transport are important. The position of today’s flights among travellers is very good and contrasts with the production and reputation of the current NSB. Some claim that this is solely due to the re-operation of the Fly train network. We believe that this is not necessarily essential for the good reputation of the Flytog, but that the organisation, product content and attitudes of the Flytog have also been essential for the Flytog's strong position today. We also believe that by allowing the Fly train to be given the responsibility to serve the other two airports, Torp and Rygge, today's traffic will revolutionize at speeds of up to 200 km/h. With few, but still some stops on the road, other travellers along the routes could benefit greatly from such a passenger service. We therefore believe that the extension of the Fly train to Torp and Rygge respectively can be an important part of a comprehensive transport strategy in the region of Grenland, Halden and Hamar and contribute to a modern, safe and environmentally friendly transport network in the Eastern region. We note that the Council of State in its response to the Committee indicates that there is no need now for a separate investigation work related to dedicated air trains connections to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge. Instead, it will work towards NTP for the period 2014-2024. Unfortunately, we think this is very defensive. We had hoped that a government that, on both the inside and the outside, claimed that it was for the railway, and claims that it was betting on the railway, had been more positive to see the possibilities and had as soon as possible been made an investigation into the extension of the Flytrain to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge, as part of a modern, secure and environmentally friendly transport network in the Eastern region. In fact, I think it is also important to bear in mind that on page 29 of the Railway Agency’s core network investigation ‘More on rails towards 2040’, it is quite clear: ‘The ability to operate Torp and Værnes railway aerodromes and an air train offer should be further assessed. Similarly, for Rygge Airport, if it receives a comprehensive flight offer with a large regional impact field.’» We therefore believe that it is entirely in place to get an investigation now, and it must be done quickly, so that one shows that one is offensive, that one wants something – moving passengers and having a good transport network also on the railway between the airports in the Eastland area. I am therefore addressing the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2512	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2515	The rapporteur presented the matter in an excellent manner, as well as the comments that we share with the Left in this matter. So here I have little to add. But just so it should be said, we fully support the development of a train offer that can serve these two airports. I have a small consideration and maybe even a question. Because that's how the Fly train, which is an AS, is a commercial actor. And they say in this case, as we understand it, that it won't be profitable in the foreseeable future with a flight offer as they offer it, and as we know it from Gardermoen to Oslo and further west today. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is promoting this proposal. Then I wonder if we know the outlines of a new policy here, because in other rail debates we have heard in the past that in the case of high-speed rail in Norway, the Progress Party is a member of it, but only if this is profitable. In this case, it will be very interesting to receive an answer, because it can provide better opportunities for negotiation in order to establish a high-speed offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2522	For my part, I could imagine taking the Fly train to Stavanger. It was just going a little faster, so we didn't stop at Torp and other places. That is what will happen in the future: to bring down national air traffic. Then it's the problem that a Progress Party page chooses not to set itself specifically active to: how much should a Lost Gardermoen for resources? How much effort is there to try to torpedo the policy that you have had at airports and in air traffic in the last few decades? The Gardermo is the airport that, together with four other bidegregs, keeps us up the routes all around the country. But I'd like to think that the Progress Party would like to put down a lot of airports around Norway and the districts. Then it's a good policy to destroy Gardermoen. I guess that's what we see the contours of here. I thought it was very interesting what the case spokesperson was doing in a good way, that the flight train, which is a 100 pst. state-owned company, was in line with the best workplace. No one has felt the need to privatize it, obviously, but here it is the state that owns the best supply in the country. And I now understand that everyone, including the Left, is pleased that the state and no one else is driving the Flytrain. So that's very good. So I remind you that on the Nordic trip to the Committee, we received a lot of requests and requests for closer cooperation on the railways, not least from the Gothenburg district, to speed up the train and get cooperation in the Nordic region, so that Norway can connect to both the high-speed network that comes in Sweden, and to the Danish, German and European elsewhere. I think we have to think more about getting a train to Rygge – much further than the Progress Party to do – that is, lightning solutions that bring us into Europe, and lightning solutions that reduce air traffic in Norway, so that we make an effort to improve the climate in the nation. That's the case!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2533	The Christian People’s Party supports the intention of this proposal by the Progress Party, namely to intensify work on the development of railway infrastructure in the intercity triangle in the East to also provide the basis for a reinforced train offer to and from Torp and Rygge airports. The Christian People's Party is therefore co-sponsored to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The Christian People's Party is for further competition of the train offer in Norway, and we would like to see Flytog AS sign up in such a tender to run several train sections on a commercial basis. On the other hand, we cannot see that it is the task of the State to give priority to the Fly train rather than to others on these routes. The NSB or other train operators will also be able to operate these airports in an excellent way, and the Christian People's Party will be meeting a strengthening of the train offer in the intercity triangle in the eastern region, whether it is on the Fly train, with the NSB, on a tender basis or in a purely public context. The flight train AS would like to expand its operations on a commercial basis, but the Christian People's Party would strongly warn against the flight train operating in its current form as a non-aero-airport stop and picking up non-aero-airport passengers. It will, in the view of the Christian People's Party, undermine the legitimacy of the Flytrain and weaken a concept of success in Norwegian public transport. The Christian People's Party therefore does not vote in favour of minority motion No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2544	I refer to Document No. 8:19 for 2008-2009 and Innst. S. No 147 for 2008-2009, with proposals from the Committee’s representatives from the Progress Party to ask the Government to issue an agreement on the extension of the Fly train to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Back as part of a modern, safe and environmentally friendly transport network in the Austland area. In this context, I refer you to my written reply in a letter of 19 December 2008 in connection with the committee's handling of the cases. In my opinion, it is not now necessary to initiate a separate project dedicated to its own air services to Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge. Instead, the potential for a future train provision to accommodate flight passengers’ needs should be assessed in the regular effort to lay down the development strategy for the railway in the southern parts of the intercity area. This will be the case, among other things. progress towards the roll-out of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. In addition, the issue needs to be assessed in the light of market developments, i.e.: the passenger growth of the two aerodromes and future conversions or extensions of these aerodromes. Development of train provision and rail infrastructure directed towards Sandefjord and Moss Airports must build on long-term assessments of these Airports their roles in relation to the ignition of the Austland, including the interaction with Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Gardermoen is the country's main airport, and Rygge and Torp are regional airports that are to bet a regional market. Today, the NSB offers daily departures on both the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway, by shuttle bus from the respective Rygge and Torp stations to the Airports. Torp holding space was created one year ago following the initiative of the Vestfold County Municipality. The development of intercity sections in Austria is an important part of current Norwegian railway policy. The condition of the Airports of Torp and Rygge is assessed in the running assessment of the train supply made in the planning of the route and tied up against infrastructure and material investment plans. All of this is done in cooperation between the Railway Agency, the NSB AS and the county councils. The Ministry of Transport purchases passenger transport services by train on all sections of the economy. This also applies to intercity traffic on Vestfoldbana and Østfoldbana. The results of the negotiations will be presented to the Stortinget in connection with the annual government budgets. About every four years, a new framework agreement will be negotiated with possible changes in train provision. After 2011/2012, when the extension to four tracks in the west corridor between Asker and Lysaker has been completed, the train offer across the whole Austland area will be improved monthly. At the same time, the new double-track Barkåker – Tønsberg host will also open for traffic. In a short time, the government will present the National Transport Plan Report 2010–2019, with plans for the development of intercity sections on Eastfold Railways and Westfold Railways over the next ten years. In the context of the management of the national transport plan, the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to assess the railway effort on these routes, including: against efforts on the road and in relation to efforts elsewhere in the country. In this way, an assessment of the overall transport policy for the whole country will be carried out within a holistic economic framework for the country. Many of the proposals for so-called alternative organisation and funding that come from different sources, in my opinion, help to disguise this real priority. Alternative organisation or funding is not a magic medium as long as the source of funding is the same all the time — that is, the state. There is no reason to expect that private sources will or may contribute to the development of the railways in Norway. The representatives of the Progress Party refer to the Flytrain’s success with its own trajectory to Gardermoen as an important part of the basis for Document No. The 8th proposal. I agree – and am pleased – that the Flytoget now stands out as a success company, which strongly supports the high collective part of the Gardermoen. But I find reason to remember that the route as the Fly train is running – Gardermobana – today has much better standards than the rest of the Norwegian railway network. In addition, the expansion of Gardermobana has linked a not insignificant cost side to the basic investments that the State has taken care of, more or less. $8 billion, which is therefore not charged to Flytoget AS. These basic investments were known as the seventh and last paid by the government through a debt cancellation after the path was completed. I am therefore pleased that the majority reject the proposal for a separate clearance of a possible extension of the flight connection to Torp and Rygge now. At the same time, I look forward to a fruitful dialogue with the Stortinget on train provision and the development plans of the intercity sections of the same relations over the next ten years in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2567	It is not often that we have rail debates in the Storting except for the annual government budget or the revised budget – but there were some projects in the action package. I want to challenge the Council of State at the Swedish Railway Agency's core network investigation, which says: "More on the rails towards 2040 – where you're very concerned that this is one of the great opportunities you have here in the eastern part of the country." But it may be that the Council of State has an aversion to competition, because the first Council of State did when she took over as the Council of State in the Ministry of Transport, was to stop all kinds of competition in the Railway Agency. Is it aversion to competition and that the Flytrain is a company that operates according to market principles as a private company, which means that the Council of State is opposed to having this investigation carried out so quickly? Is that why the Council of State does not want to raise the matter, but says that we must wait until the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2014-2024?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2574	One important reason why I do not go further is that the Flytrain is a private company. The flight train itself says that there is no indication that there is a potential for this offer, and to develop it now. And then future developments will change, and they'll get one in which case they'll come back. I am surprised that the Progress Party, as I know the party, will now instruct a private company to operate sections that the company itself sees as not relevant and not profitable. This is not about competition, it is about what is the sensible use of state resources in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2581	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2586	It's a new situation that the Progress Party is the hottest defender of the railway, and that you're challenged by both one and the other who's trying to find good ways to get away from this. Economy is being drawn out as one example of why you're now a little bit skeptical about this, and the fact that the Flytrain itself has said they don't want it. But this is about an investigation, and then you see what the results are. With regard to what the representative Halleraker said, I think it is important to bear in mind that the railway works actually say that they fully agree with us. They just want this investigation done, and it makes sense to look at it. Our Nordic neighbouring countries also have plans and investigations that actually go far beyond ten years – they talk in 20-30 years’ time in their plans. So we actually think it would be good to have this investigation done now instead of waiting and seeing. Both the government and representatives of other parties in this room have been very busy building high-speed trains that run up to 300 km/h, and perhaps more than 300 km/h – although I now find that the high-speed train may have been a speed train or a train that runs 200 km/h, because that is what you are talking about. I also find it very exciting to record that the representative Langeland has become a large and warm defender of the air traffic on the Gardermo. Anyone who knows SV's policy and knows what SV's policy is about will realize that the representative Langeland and SV have become a party that is for more air traffic, not least from the main aerodrome, is dragging it far beyond the SV usually forefects in this room. Because there is something SV would like to do, it is to remove the plane and replace it with completely different means of entry, along with other parties that would like to put down part of the air traffic and then move on to train transport to several hundred billion kroner. But here we come up with a proposal that I think is of completely different dimensions, and that gives completely different possibilities than part of the big visions of high-speed trains and other studies that some people present. So I think it's a little sad that those who often try to present themselves as offensive in terms of railway policy, now, in fact, appear to be very little offensive by choosing not to support our proposals, which are just about to be made and assessed. We believe that it is actually a basis for the flight if you do the grips that we have shown in our representative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2595	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2205]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2611	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2620	This is an important matter that very many along the coast are concerned about. It takes business, and it takes people most. If I have been a bit critical of the Progress Party before today, I give credit for them raising this matter in Stortinget. I have been involved in addressing this issue in the county community in its time, and we managed to establish a system for the county roads in my home country. I also helped – I think – that we got the system established in the previous period. Now we see from today's leaks in the papers that we get an extension of this period, so I think that's positive. The Progress Party wants an extension of 50 years. Maybe that's a lot. I compared this last time we discussed this matter in the hall, with similar long-term investments taking place in the power industry, where one often uses 30-40 years' perspective on its current value calculations. The matter has in many ways lost some of its fun, since we have seen several leaks from central party representatives in many counties, from the morning of and beyond the day. But I'll leave that in this context. I just want to say that I think it's a little frustrating to get the NTP in small portions. We're not used to that in Stortinget. There is one presentation and one presentation that has been common. In that context, I would like to ask the Council of State of the Grand Duchy if she can now tell us – in respect of the work of the Grand Duchy and the other functions of the representatives – when the NTP goes to the Council of State, and we get the case. I think we deserve an answer to that question. We have a lot of other things to take care of as well. So to the arrangement: One of those who have been given the opportunity to lick the case today is former Secretary of State Steinulf Tongesvik, who in the Official Journal of Bergen is cheering over a significant contribution to the ferry-free coastal logway, E39, between Bergen and Stord. I agree with Mr Tongesvik on that! It's very nice, and I fully agree with him that this is a project that needs to be prioritised. But there is one catch by his reasoning that I would like to ask the Council of State to take note of and do something about before she formally presents the matter in the NTP. The fact is, the project mentioned by Tongesvik does not benefit from the scheme, even though the four ferry services actually provided have a total grant requirement of 50 million. kr per year. The reason is that future maintenance costs of the fixed link appear to be higher than the operating and capital costs. This does not mean that the Tonguesvik cheers. There's actually nothing for this project. So future road users have to cover this instead. I find it unreasonable that future maintenance costs should be borne by road users. There are no roads other than on the holiday relief project. I would like to propose to the Council of State in this matter and put my trust in the fact that, as a westerner and well used to both ferries and ferry relief projects, she does not burden road users on the coast, who have also earned a modern, decent name, with the costs of ferry-free districts. With an adjustment to this point before the case is presented in the NTP, the Council of State shall be commended for having addressed an important but also reasonable case. I feel convinced that it has not been just a simple time in this matter. In this respect, it may have been possible that the matter was leaked, so that the Council of State will have an opportunity to correct the skepticism I mentioned, if it has not already been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2638	Futten has gone a bit out of this case, says the representative Halleraker. But without regard to the information and the media that have been available on this matter today, it is a fact that, for several rounds, the Council of State has provided the Stortinge with an answer and a briefing that this is a matter for evaluation in the ministry, and that one would return to the Stortinge with a matter of fact. So I experience in many ways this representative proposal from the Progress Party a bit like opening doors. Already on 3 October last year, the Minister for Transport said that the system of ferries subsidiars for the financing of bridge and tunnel connections was to be assessed in the department. On 17 December, the Minister for Transport confirmed this in Question Time, and as early as 9 January, the Council of State was forced to reword the same motion of censure as the response to this draft representative, which is the basis for consideration now. I have to say, I think it is strange that the state council's repeated warning that this matter will come, has not reached the Progress Party before. These are, of course, very good arguments for introducing a longer system than today's 15-year system. After all, government savings will last much longer than these 15 years, and therefore there are no large economic projections for the country, compared to maintaining the ferries. The second is that this will, of course, strengthen the economy of these holiday-resolution projects and contribute to the implementation of much more holiday-resolution projects. We have experienced on committee trips around the West and in North Norway that there is a strong desire for more mainland connections. However, most of these holiday connections are to be transferred to county municipalities from 2010 onwards, and then, to a large extent – regardless of this legislation – it will be the task of the county councils to assess the individual holiday relief projects. It may be a bit risky for an indigenous crab to ask me if all of these holiday relief projects are equally important and correct, but I hope that the county councils in the future may still consider whether a better holiday offer can be an alternative in many cases, even if I register a strong desire to make the country more or less vacation-free. I would like to point out that many of these projects with the long underwater tunnels need to be carefully evaluated, because these tunnels are required. It's very demanding to keep them on, and I see that a very large proportion of the maintenance budget will go to operate the underwater tunnels. But I have full confidence that the county councils will do so in the future when it applies to each project. Similarly, when it comes to what is left of the state, one would have to make such concrete assessments, even if it would be possible to extend the holiday solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2651	I am pleased that the representative Rudihagen confirms that there is a lot of fun left in ferries. Otherwise, I would recommend the representative to take several trips along the coast to better understand the conditions that both individuals and, in particular, businesses experience on a daily basis. I am pleased to note that the central party in the government is trying to pursue forward-looking party policy in some areas of transport. That policy is best in its original form. The Minister of Transport demonstrated this clearly yesterday, when she informed that the Government will change the grant period for State grants – from today’s 15 to 30 years. The progress party will have up to 50 years, as we propose in this case. It is good that the Government extends the period – that the Government gets credit from the Advance Party. It's not good that you don't want to go up to 50 years. There is no randomly chosen number. A good rule says that a good road lasts for 50 years – unfortunately we have experience for more than 50 years. A period of up to 50 years will be a reasonably effective guarantee so that most future holiday relief projects can be carried out without the use of tolls. The government has to explain whether what is coming applies to all today’s national roads or only to the few that the state will continue to maintain after the administrative reform in 2010, where two thirds of the national road network – with ferries – is moved to the county municipalities. The Progress Party wants this system, as we are proposing here today, to apply to all today's national roads, regardless of who is responsible after 2010. That's an important clarification. The Government must also explain whether it will cover the financing costs of such projects or whether these substantial costs will continue to be borne by road users through tolls. Here too, the Progress Party is as clear as the Government is currently unclear – nothing is clear about this. The freshest example to point out here in Stortinget on 20 November last year. It was about the Rya connection in the municipality of Tromsø in Troms. There we have a typical ferry relief project with a new subsea tunnel between Balsnes and Larseng in the municipality of Tromsø. The majority have decided that this project will be partly financed by tolls. The point is that of the toll of 144 million. kr will only go – if it is possible to use that expression – 54 million. DKK to cover the investment costs themselves, while a total of 90 million. kr agrees to cover the financing costs of the project. Therefore, an important part is linked to the State financing of holiday relief projects to the extent that the State covers the construction loan costs of project finance costs or not. In the case that I referred to with the Rya connection in Tromsø, it is such that it should keep up with an extension of seven to eight years. So it's within the framework of the increase actually proposed by the Government, but the entire investment cost of 54 million. kr will remain if the State does not take that bill. That is why there is a need for clear clarification in extending the system, and that is why the Progress Party is in favour of the proposal under consideration today, which unfortunately only receives the votes of the Progress Party. We want funding for a period of up to 50 years. We want this to apply to all national roads, even after some national roads are transferred to the county, and we want the state to cover the financing costs of all such projects. Then most people who get replaced a ferry with a fixed connection will not pay tolls when they do not use the ferry. In addition, I would like to point out a matter that the representative Halleraker correctly addressed – which is also an important part of this issue – namely that according to today's regulations and regulations it seems that drivers in some parts of the country pay tolls for road maintenance. We can't have it that way. It must be part of the clarification from the Government. There is a need for both clarification and clarification in relation to the proposal that the Minister for Transport leaked yesterday. The start is good – I hope the clarification is just as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2677	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2680	This is a matter that most of the parties on the Stortinget have been concerned about – including the Christian People's Party. That's why I think it's okay to experience that we're knocking open doors today. As others have pointed out, the news gave us the good news that the guidelines for ferry relief projects have extended the timeframe from 15 to 30 years. It is truly joyful, and entirely in line with the wishes of the Christian People's Party. At the same time, we share the concern that Halleraker has about having a national transport plan delivered to Stortinget via the media, piece by piece and divided, but processed. I would ask that not everything be delivered to the media in advance, and that there be only a question of looking up the less sellable parts of the opposition when the national transport plan comes to Stortinget. Of course, the timeframe can be discussed. The Progress Party will have 50 years. From the Christian People's Party we would say that we believe the minister has landed at a reasonable level. «Quality of life in everyday life» is the motto of the Christian People's Party for our political work in the future, and there is a lot of quality of life in ferry relief. A bridge or tunnel opens up contact between individuals, teams, associations and business in a completely different way from what a ferry can do. The most important thing is that you avoid shutting down at night. There is a significant time savings in ferry relief, and the uncertainty with the cooling of ferries is avoided. This will make many ferry relief projects feasible that are not today. This is a good thing, and we hope that an overall increase will be behind when the national transport plan is to be addressed in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2693	It's most touching when the Progress Party each time they think it's the same as another party in one case, the other party owes it to pursue progress party politics. Fortunately, it's not that simple and so bad. For the purposes of this Document, the following definitions shall apply: The 8-proposal, however, is the intention behind it which I would like to stress, and not the fact that the Council of State has repeatedly warned that there is a case for the Storting on this, and that it is presenting Document No. The 8-proposal was therefore unnecessary. What I'm happy about today is that the government has announced that they're going to extend the period of time for the payment of a ferry fee, from 15 to 30 years. It means a lot to all communities around Norway that are now connected from the rest of society much of the day and hence of the year. What I'm looking forward to now is that we can realize a good deal of holiday solution project that otherwise could not have been realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2702	For almost four years, the government has been focusing on a reverse operation for traffic in Norway. We have increased the permissions and contributed to a policy of binding the country together. This will continue – and a clear course will be pointed out in the National Transport Plan presented to the Stortinget next month, closer to 13 March. The proposal for a representative calls for the State to cover the financing costs of such projects and the savings of State ferry costs after the current system of calculation, but for a period of up to 50 years. It is also suggested that such a scheme should apply to the current national road haulage operator regardless of whether parts of the road network are transferred from the State to the county municipalities. I have said many times in this room that the length of the payment of the holiday compensation allowance is a matter I have had during work. My starting point was that the Stortninget should be presented with a proposal for changes to the framework of the scheme as soon as the Government has assessed different aspects of this. In line with this, a more detailed description of the scheme will also be given in the forthcoming national transport plan notification. In the Storing Message, the various aspects of the release mechanism will be discussed, and the Government's view on how to proceed with this scheme will be clarified more closely. I have a great sense of the idea behind a holiday solution scheme, and we know that the scheme as it stands today has been able to trigger several projects. I think a lot of people experience it as a sensible policy that a commitment is made to contributing ferry charges. A holiday settlement will both provide a better supply for residents and businesses, and it will save the country for long-term expenditure. The government will propose, in the forthcoming national transport plan notification, that changes be made to the framework of the scheme by extending the period for the country’s payment of ferries to 30 years, i.e. a doubling in relation to today. This could facilitate the decommissioning of several ferries in favour of continental connections. Extending the period and tying up the country's funds for a longer period than this, the Government will not be able to recommend. According to the Government’s assessment, it would not be advisable to open the State ferry service to cover the repayment of interest and the financing costs associated with local advance payments. In other words, one continues today's practice. When it comes to the link between the administrative reform and the alternative use of ferry services, the government assumes that the county authorities will be responsible for paying the ferry fees for the projects already undertaken by the Stortinget on today's national road network by 2010. It will also be up to the individual county to decide whether they will extend the framework of these projects to a longer period than 15 years. For new projects on today’s national road network, it will be up to the individual county municipality to assess whether it is advisable to use the frameworks of the state scheme with alternative use of ferry charges. But through this announcement of change, we have expanded the framework of the system, and I feel that one in the coastal region has a significant sense of the way in which the system of ferry termination is based. Implementing the administrative reform will not make it harder to use this form of funding. The county councils will have greater freedom of action to choose the solutions they want locally. I hope this can be an important contribution to triggering more new projects in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2723	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2727	Then it's the way the Progress Party for good reason feared, that this excitement will be less happy when we get a little bit more insight into what it doesn't contain. The Council of State has now said that it is not about taking over the financing costs, and in the fresh example I used in my post, the case of the Rya connection, which was dealt with in November, the point was that the main cost for the drivers, which means that tolls have to be used to get this in place, is linked to paying the financing costs. Then the Council of State has confirmed that, after implementing the administrative reform and transferring two thirds of the road network to the county councils, poor, without proper security, other than through the municipal proposition each year, it will also happen to the ferries. So here the start is very good, but the content is sad. What is the reason why there will be no improvement in the cost of financing, which is so heavy on such projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2734	The financing costs of the holiday relief project will be treated in the same way as for other projects. Some of them are state-owned, and some of them are interstate, municipal and state-based, and through tolls. It's also similar with other connections, so it doesn't distinguish much from that of other national road networks, or county road networks. When it comes to the details of how the financing of ferry projects will be in the new system, we are still working on it, and we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2741	I got an answer to one of my questions in the State Council's articles, so I only have a small question about the relationship I took up, about the capital and operating costs, which is a problem especially for ferry-relief projects, where there will be long bypass roads. Where there is relatively short ferry connection and short bridge connection that replaces this, the problem is not the same. But where there's a long way, maybe miles around, you get a maintenance aspect related to the new road that turns out very unfortunate, and that's what happens to the project that tonguesvik has taken up. So I would encourage the Council of State to take a closer look at that relationship, at least so that there are only maintenance and capital costs associated with the actual fjord crossing that might have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2746	I mean the representative here has a proper input. I will take it with me and evaluate it carefully before we conclude completely on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2751	To follow up on the first question, the answer given is still the sad fact that you treat holiday relief projects as you do in other toll cases, i.e. that you put most of the funding costs on the car lists when you are going to use the new road system. What's special here is that those who don't travel by ferry, who look forward to it and enjoy it, will be met with new bills when the connection finally gets fixed. So I repeat that it's a legitimate wish, as I see it, for many people who have a holiday relief project, to drop new bills when they drop the ferry. What will the Council of State say to those who have recently adopted such projects? The councils and I have been together at the bridge opening in Austevoll, Austevollbrua – that was probably the second last – and then we have the Rya connection in Tromsø, where this has recently been adopted. Do you want to look at schemes to extend the grant period also for the latest holiday relief projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2758	It will be possible for those who have been admitted to their projects to re-open the case and forward it, but then one has to go through a new process. That possibility has been opened for. Otherwise, I would say that I myself have been a user of a holiday termination project for many years, the Fjærlandstunnel, which was not within this scheme, but was a holiday termination project. We paid tolls, which have justly been quite high, probably among the highest in the country. But until the next year, it's over. Then we have a good path, which has also been likely in the years that it has been tolling, but which is now free – perhaps the most important way to connect housing and labour market regions in a state. If one hadn't gone for that toll solution, it might be doubtful if the road had been built today. That's just the point. So the cost of a holiday has a "for ever", both on the state's hand and for the individual who travels. A toll can be a load for a period of time. But it's a period, and then a system that's going to be a lot better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2765	No one else has asked for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2770	What we are experiencing today is a historic day for the people of the coast. Not least, you have the opportunity to tie this country together in an even better way. Compared to the challenges you have along the coast and the value creation that happens, you might get built roads and bridges continuously, so that you don't stand in a ferry queue, don't stand and wait and don't get over to the next day. As far as the population of the coast is concerned, tolls have been paid every year. You pay for a ferry. I don't think it's going to be the big frame scare if it's going to be an extension. The people of the coast have been used to it. What's kind of nice to hear in this debate, in fact, is that it almost sounds like a little envy because this government takes one grip after another. Then my question is, why didn't you do anything when you had the opportunity, either with the holiday relief problem, or with giving more money to roads, railways, etc.? Why didn't they take these grips? You had the opportunity. You had the opportunity for several periods. You didn't do it, but now you come looking for it and you think it's too small. It's too little money, it's too few years – and that's how I could still do it. I rather think you should give the government – and the government – even more praise because she has now taken some action. Then there will be some leaks. It may be positive that some leaks have occurred. There is no doubt that when the national transport plan comes, we will all deal with this together. I'm happy and looking forward to it. Then maybe there'll be even more air billions from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2783	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen took this again over the Presidential seat. [[Footage, see page 2205]] After there was a ring to the votering, said
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2794	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 1-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2802	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2826	President! I was supposed to vote in favour, but my voting system didn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2831	Then the result shall be 75 voices against and 21 voices for the proposal. Thus, the proposal from the Progress Party is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e2850	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to regularly inform the Storting of its activities and the management status of the funds.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3019	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reduce a professionally based sample assessing the short and long-term dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. The committee shall look at both national and international experience.’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3057	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1–6, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 7, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3081	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1–6, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3143	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 February 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for the revision of the applicable law so that Sunday-open shops are made possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3162	There is a vote on the proposal by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted from the meeting of Odelstinget on 24 February 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government by regulation to prevent the circumvention of the opening time provisions in the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3181	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left, submitted by Odelstinget meeting on 24 February 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to make changes to the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act, which takes care of holidays as a holiday but which regulates trade in public holidays in a more appropriate way.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3199	During the debate, Beate Heieren Hundhammer has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3213	Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Christian People's Party and the Left are stuttering the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3235	A vote will be taken on the proposals made by Mr Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 3 February 2009: ‘The Government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of transport charges and charges with proposals for a future strategy for the use of charges and charges in order to achieve national transport policy objectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3254	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 3 February 2009: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a Coastal Safety and Preparedness Council. The Council shall be a liaison and liaison body for those departments of central government responsible for the administrative tasks related to coastal security and preparedness.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3274	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 3 February 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the transfer of the Coastal Agency from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to the Ministry of Transport to ensure better coordination of transport policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3293	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 3 February 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on security and preparedness status in the transport sector and related costs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3311	During the debate Arne Sortevik presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority agrees that the construction of E6 Nidelv bru–Grillstad and E6 Værnes–Kvithammar as described in St.prp. No 31 [[2008-2009]] Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3343	During the debate Arne Sortevik presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The biggest request is for the Government to initiate planning, design and construction of a new bridge on Rv 80 between Løding and Vikan as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3375	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3401	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the expansion of its operations and also to operate stops that are not associated with an aerodrome.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3415	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up its efforts to develop the railway infrastructure in the InterCity Triangle in the East, in order also to provide the basis for a reinforced train offer to and from Torp and Rygge airports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3437	During the debate Arne Sortevik presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the guidelines for holiday relief projects on the national road network. The State will then cover the total financing costs of such projects and the savings of State ferry costs after the current calculation system, but for a period of up to 50 years. The size assumes that such a scheme applies to today's national road ferries irrespective of whether parts of the road network are transferred from the State to the county municipalities.» This proposal will be replaced by the vote. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:22 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26.ana.ud4e3520	Thus, today's map has been processed. Is there any person who wishes to speak under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
