ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e49	The representative Heikki Holmås, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Karin S. Woldseth on 27 May and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Georg Indrevik, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e72	Georg Indrevik is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e93	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Lars Peder Breck will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Representatives who, in addition to those who have been notified in advance, would like to ask questions of substance. We'll start with the first main questions from Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e102	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. Last weekend, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly held its spring session here in Oslo. Afghanistan was, of course, a central issue. The meeting was also attended by the Secretary-General of NATO. He again pointed out the lack of soldiers and the lack of equipment and materials to Afghanistan. For a long time we have observed that Norwegian soldiers in foreign operations have had insufficient and poor equipment at their disposal. The lack of personal protective equipment is essential for the current threat picture, as well as compartmental equipment. The Progress Party is very concerned that our soldiers should have access to the best equipment, so that risks and threats are minimised. We have repeatedly pointed out the challenges facing our soldiers in the security situation in Afghanistan today. Over time, we have seen more situations that have had tragic outcomes, as a result of, among other things. for poor material. A few weeks ago, unfortunately, we experienced a tragedy again, as a result of explosives directed at unanswered vehicles. Our question is therefore: why does Norway not provide more armoured and proper equipment in connection with our foreign missions? Is this because the budget appropriations for the defence are too low or because of the lack of political will to have this implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e111	Firstly, I would like to say that Norway has a heavy, strong and solid commitment to Afghanistan. We have approx. 600 soldiers present. I would like to stress that these soldiers are very well equipped, they are very well trained, and they are very well prepared for the task they stand on every single day. As far as access to material is concerned, we are committed to providing the soldiers with the best material. Armoured vehicles are an essential part of it. But it would be totally wrong to believe that armored vehicles alone can minimize the risk in Afghanistan. They can't. It is important to have armoured vehicles. As of today, we have 120 armoured vehicles in the places we are in Afghanistan. In addition, we have many more armoured vehicles under order. So we're assuming that we can almost double it in a couple of years. Another thing is that there is a long delivery time on this material. We are in the same line as any other NATO country that wants material for its soldiers out in the field. I refuse to believe that there is bad material among the Norwegian soldiers. It's an area where we don't save, and where we're always very aware that we're going to get the very best material to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e120	No, armoured vehicles alone are not enough – and that is not what I am saying either. There must be much more equipment and much better equipment. And I have to say that I almost get a little shocked when I hear that there are two years delivery time on these armoured vehicles. Then I have to ask myself, what will happen in the course of the two years, when we have seen what has happened so far? In order to comply with the Secretary-General's request for more soldiers to Afghanistan, although we have a quota there, the Progress Party has proposed the creation of a new battalion, corresponding to the Telemark battalion. Can the Council of State envisage taking an initiative to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e127	As I said, we have per. today 120 armoured vehicles. There have been many armoured vehicles for Afghanistan in recent years. I would also like to stress that a tragic event like that in Afghanistan cannot, unfortunately, be fought against. Those who are most familiar with this are our soldiers out in the field. In fact, it is also important that politicians, the Stortinget, and the Norwegian people also recognise that you are in a risk situation no matter how much armored material and how good material you have. As far as the long-term plan is concerned, it clearly tells us to increase the number of soldiers in the Army in the next few years. It's not within the long-term plan to create a new battalion, but we're going to increase the number of soldiers in the Army considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e134	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e137	The question asked by the representative Width has appeared many times. There is concern that there is insufficient funding for equipment, training and exercises. To be honest, we don't know enough about this. I have to say that I have felt a concern over the four years I have been the head of the Defence Committee, about how much adequate information we actually get. After these four years, there's basically one strong wish I have for the Defense, and it's now getting a proper transparency reform that tells me what the situation really is. For there are asked too many such questions as it Width asked. There are too many anecdotes that things are not enough, and there are too few sure answers. My question to the Council of State is, Will she be able to go to the top now to get a proper transparency reform on what the situation really is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e144	We have to be open about everything we can be open about. But it actually also requires reading what's going on in the media. I just want to refer to this last sad event. Then the former general inspector of the Army went out in a big headline in Dagbladet and explained this with armor and non-armour and safety equipment, and he also described the situation for the Norwegian soldiers. We're actually a little dependent on taking what comes from the Defense itself, because there's actually a lot of information and explanation about what's going on out there. So it's always the way to want more material. We have, as I said, a long delivery time for something. We're trying to keep pressure on delivery as much as we can, because it's clear that we're busy securing our soldiers as best we can all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e152	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e155	I just want to underline what the previous speakers have mentioned, that we must keep pressure on both equipment and on enough soldiers. Since this is in practice about our efforts in Afghanistan, I would like to come into NATO's parliamentary meeting, which was held here in Oslo, and which I followed both in the political committee and in plenary. A different situation in Afghanistan was brought forward with an incredibly strong force, the strong failure in how to achieve it with the help of the civilian population. Strong words were used, such as a total lack of coordination or strong lack of coordination. It used direct words. Kai Eide is a direct-talking man, although he has a diplomatic form. He said directly that too much of the money never gets to where they're going. It was underlined time and time again that if you don't get this in place in a proper way, you remove some of the things that we're going to fight for. Does the Council of State see any initiatives that can be taken to improve this important aspect of the operation in Afghanistan, as Kai Eide is now asking for help?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e164	I fully agree that lack of coordination is a major problem in Afghanistan. But it is not, in fact, a military problem. It's all the other agencies that have to follow up when the military enters and tries to stabilize the situation in the different parts of the country. When I have spoken to the Afghan authorities, they have asked that we influence our allies to do as Norway does. Lots of aid money – 80 pst. - goes through the Afghan government. In fact, we need to give the Afghan Government confidence so that they can stand too much of the coordination, in close cooperation with the United Nations, which is to be the great, unifying player in Afghanistan. Norway does. We give the most through the authorities and follow up their priorities. I am quite clear that everything we do in Afghanistan must be in support of the country and of the Afghans themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e171	Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e174	My question is also on the vehicle. I've been to Afghanistan sometimes, and I have some idea of cars. When I am involved, among other things: Sees that you drive around in unanswered Mercedes 240 Groundcar, 72 hp diesel engine, I get a little scared. These are cars that are almost worse than a medium-sized farm car in Hedmarken. Since I heard at the same time that it takes so long to get these cars, I took a phone last year to a Canadian company. They would spend seven days delivering 25 armored Toyota cars to Kabul airport. So it would take seven days! They could do the same thing now. I therefore do not understand that this is the time. In the week that was, I had a meeting with a French company – Renault. They're also great at delivering military vehicles. They could deliver military vehicles in what sizes and classes we wanted in five months. I read the paper, and I hear the council say now, it takes time – 15 months, maybe two years – before there's enough vehicle down there. This applies to both armoured and unanswered vehicles... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e183	Let me just make it quite clear: we have 120 armoured vehicles in Afghanistan today. But there's a lot of wear on the vehicles in Afghanistan. That's why we always have to re-order. As I said, we get someone delivered in 2010, but for some it is longer delivery time. We'll get about. 47 – I think it is – delivered in 2010. So it is that no matter how many armored vehicles we have – and that's the IVECO vehicle this is about, it's not armored Land Cruiser – the military commander in some mission will recommend using other types of vehicles. There may be different reasons for this – it may have to do with prosperity, it may have to do with the nature of the mission. When we're in Afghanistan and we're going to talk to the locals, it's not that easy to get into an armored vehicle, because at least you're showing the distance. It's actually the military themselves that chooses from the situation and from the mission they're going to perform. So we have to give that trust, but clearly we need enough armored vehicles to enable them to choose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e190	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e193	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: Agricultural and rural policies are characterised by strong property regulation: housing reduces value and impedes the movement of the farm, the ban on sharing prevents restructuring for greater and more viable uses, the price regulation deprives the seller of part of the value, even when the seller and the purchaser agree on the price, and the law on nobility means that farming is inherited and prevents new ones from joining the industry. Common to all these regulations is that it weakens the ownership of the farmer, and that there are strict leads to what the landowner can dispose of his own property. I believe that we should do that kind of regulation, we need good reasons for such regulation to actually work – the evidence that they have to work. The picture in Norway today is that there are 35 000 farms empty and to maturity around the country, 180 000 agricultural holdings exist, but there are only 47 000 active farms. That means that the peasants change, while the property structure is stuck to a bomb. At the same time, Norwegian farmers become more and more tenants; 40 pst. of the agricultural area in Norway is land under rent. Property regulation does not work as intended. Recently, the nations documented that 20 p.m. non-compliance by residents with the obligation to live up to it. The government has now delivered to Stortinget an odelstningsproposition that tightens up parts of this legislation. Based on this picture, doesn't the Council of State think it's time to give farmers and people in the districts a little of the same ownership as other people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e204	As the representative of Solberg stressed, this is a matter to be dealt with in Stortinget in a short time. The right, and also the Progress Party, argues that the liberalisation of the rules on housing, price control and the prohibition of sharing will strengthen the farmer's rights to own property. I do not agree with the two parties that this leads to the right results for society. The amendment of the law made in this odelstningsproposition involves significant simplification and clarification of important parts of agricultural legislation. The rules will be more targeted, easier to understand and easier to enforce, and may be better suited to achieving the goal of housing, nutrition and food production in a world where the availability of enough food is threatened worldwide. If the legislation on agricultural properties is weakened, I believe there is reason to believe that many properties will be assessed in line with cabins or leisure properties, and not as commercial properties. Many people buy cabins and leisure properties, that's okay, but the government and I want to make sure that the agricultural properties are used for business, and not least for housing. That is what is the basis for the legislative proposals currently under consideration in the Grand Duchy, and that is what is the basis of the government's policy. The proposals also aim at targeting the rules on residential property with reduced concessional limits, which we have in many southern municipalities. So it opens up municipal freedom to change the rules on exemptions for relatives as well. I just want to stress that there is an ideological difference in policy in this area. What the Government and the Central Party are doing is we're going to use the properties for business and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e215	The ideological difference may be one thing, but the question is: is the policy of the Central Party and the Government functioning? Does it give the results for District Norway that you assume it will give? The answer now provided by the documentation is that it does not. There are 35,000 buildings at maturity in District Norway because of this policy. For example, it involves: that when a break in the housing obligation results in the sale of farm and land that may have been in a family for generations, people living elsewhere in the country do not have the opportunity to take over houses and farms only because they cannot move there and take over the place of residence. So the answer to this is: More houses to maturity, more runners in District Norway, less living settlements and less activity than it could otherwise have been. Does the Central Party and the Minister of Agriculture think that there is a way to create living settlements – to see more houses fall due?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e224	Construction research has just produced a report showing the results of people's perception of the place of residence. The main findings of this survey are that the main gravity of those taking over agricultural property wants to live on the property. Almost 90 pst. states it as a very important or quite important reason. It says that Norwegian farms are inhabited by people who want to live there. In addition, it is important to note that industrial activities are carried out on a large proportion of the property in which the owner lives. It is found that housing has a significant impact on activity and industrial development in the countryside. Despite the fact that people live with pleasure, housing rules are important in order to avoid the use of agricultural property for leisure purposes. So that's the basis of the property law we have today, and part of the proposals that have been put forward. It is important to note that the effect of the housing obligation is more about who takes over the agricultural property than that it forces people to live there. It's also important to get involved. That is, the properties are channelled to the one in the family who wants to live there. This has also been taken into account in the legislative proposal now under consideration in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e232	There will be four follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e235	Since this is the last questioning session in which the Council of State meets, and we are now approaching elections, it is only to note that the Norwegian farmer does not tolerate any more of the Central Party. During this period, we have had two Central Party agricultural ministers who have been dedicated to filling up old ideology and not contributing to future hope and development. One of the factors contributing to narrowing down is: the property laws, where we have a case that is being treated in Stortinget now. The Council of State states that liberalisation, such as: the undersigned stands for, will not help. But it is explicitly proven that the policies of the Council of State do not work. So he doesn't want cabin properties, but he wants dump properties. When will the Council of State take steps to reorient itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e242	What Mr. Asmyhr is describing is wrong. The image is opposite. The picture is that Norwegian agricultural properties are inhabited and used for industrial purposes. The image that both the Progress Party and the Right are trying to obtain is wrong. What's a bit of a point here is that when the Progress Party says they want to release the peasant, they really want to release the peasant. They do not want agriculture to the extent that we have in Norway today. They do not want agriculture throughout the country. They don't want us to produce food to the extent that we do in Norway today, and it's quite serious. My starting point is that Norwegian agriculture should continue as far as possible to the extent that we have today. There will still be structural changes, but structural changes have been reduced during this government. Departure from the industry has been halved in four years. Despite the financial crisis, despite the rise in time, the government's policy has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e251	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e254	The Christian People's Party has a completely different starting point than the Advance Party and the Right in terms of housing obligations. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the relocation from farming here in the country. Without a dwelling obligation, it can open up a market for agricultural properties to become large leisure properties for capital investors and to be used only for short periods of time, holidays, etc. It is not this Christian People's Party that perceives as living villagers or a forward-looking agricultural policy. At the same time, it is unfortunate that practices vary greatly from municipality to municipality. If the housing obligation system is to have a future, and that is what it should be, it must be practiced fairly equally, and it must be practiced in a sense. How will the Minister of Agriculture ensure a fair level and good law practice, so that housing can contribute to the achievement of what was intended, namely to sustain the settlement and create life and well-being throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e265	I am very pleased that the representative Tørersdal from the Christian People's Party underlines the same intention that the Government has – and that the Center Party also has – that housing should contribute to farm management, that they are inhabited by people who want to live in the countryside, and that we do not convert the properties into leisure properties. That is very important. What we have proof over the last few years is that this policy is working. Farmers today want to live there because they want to do business. It's crucial. As far as housing management legislation is concerned, we have established guidelines for consistent practice. These guidelines are followed by the municipalities. However, it is still the case that there must be a possibility of different treatment in different municipalities and that there are different conditions that need to be taken care of. I think that still has to be the basis. Municipalities must have a certain degree of self-management of this. It is done by way of accommodation and concession rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e272	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e275	The left is of the opinion that the best decisions are taken as close as possible to those to which they relate. The center party has doubts about old medicine, even if it doesn't work. To a large extent, this also applies to national housing law and to the tightening of that housing obligation. The right hand side and the progress side will end the dwelling, but also in this area there is a difference between shaving and cutting off the entire chin. The left will liquidate the State housing law for agricultural properties and allow municipalities to introduce housing in all or part of the municipality. This will result in a housing law that is adapted to local circumstances, and it also shows that you have confidence in local elected representatives. Does it not seem to the Council of States – perhaps I should be so rude as to say as an old rapporteur – that this is a good proposal on which the Central Party should also support?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e288	I see it as the representative of Kongshaug and Left agree with the principle of housing, i.e. that we are to safeguard the future prospects of agriculture by making demands on those who acquire properties. I fully agree with that, and it is also at the root of the policy pursued by the Government, which has been the subject of the Central Party, and it is at the bottom of the proposals now under consideration in the Grand Duchy. Through those proposals, we have tried to clarify and clarify the legislation, and not least simplify the legislation. In this context, there is also greater opportunities for municipalities to influence the situation. I'm a fan of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e293	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e296	It's a term that says you're more Catholic than the pope. When the Council of State can stand here and say that he thinks it is very good in a lot of District Norway, and he does not see many Norwegian agricultural properties being moved away and used empty, I wonder when he drove around in District Norway last. What we're talking about here is huge interference in ownership, without any visible impact on the development of agriculture. And if the Minister of Agriculture is satisfied that the ideological difference between the Right and the Center Party is that we want to give ownership back to the farmer, while the Center Party wants to give it to the bureaucracy, there is a quite ideological difference between me. But we've had an agricultural industry that's politically driven, and the farmer has not been allowed to adapt himself. I dare say that the farmer actually knows best how he wants to develop his basis of life and his values. When will the Centre also grant agriculture the same freedom as any other food business operator in Norway to develop their values and nutritional basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e304	The President will point out that there are government councils meeting to respond, not representatives of individual parties represented in the Government. But of course, Councillor Lars Peder Breck is given the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e307	I am very happy to speak on behalf of the entire Government in this matter. It is quite clear that this government is united in the policy represented by the Council of State. It is important that we have framework conditions in Norwegian agriculture that ensure the ability to carry out sensible food production throughout the country, even in the future. What this government is concerned about, to a greater extent than other parties in this process, including the party of the representative Gundersen, is that we should take care of those who want to enter agriculture rather than take care of those who are going to leave agriculture. The representative of Gundersen is prefecting the opposite. He will take care of those who want to sell themselves out of agriculture. He wants to liberalise the possibility of selling properties. We do not want that. We want to take care of those who are going in, and then we have to have both housing law and price regulation. And as far as price regulation is concerned, it is quite logical that for an industry which is subject to significant support schemes, such as Norwegian agriculture, and which has a protection,... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e314	The number is over. The President again notes that when the red lamp goes out, you close your mouth. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e319	I also have a question for Minister of Agriculture Breck. Now the red-green government has had power for almost four years. It's time for summary. It's time to look at what the government has been able to do for a whole magnification period. Four years means four agricultural settlements – four opportunities to meet the many, and good, promises of offensive agricultural investment. The central party has thus been in government for four years – a government based on a majority in the Grand Duchy, which thus has the opportunity to implement the policy you want. The Christian People's Party has recorded that government parties have used this power and the ability to carry out the heart matters of the various government parties. An example of this is the SV Children’s Hazellift – it has been implemented with a cost-effective strategy. I guess what's heart-to-heart number one for the Center Party must be agriculture. However, despite the fact that the Central Party has been in power and has had the Minister of Agriculture — or Agriculture — throughout the period, we note that there is still unrest and lack of optimism in agriculture regarding the recruitment of young people to the industry, and in terms of profitability and earnings. It is still difficult to finance initial investment in agriculture. There is a widespread decline in use, especially in areas of widespread settlement, and we are troubled by the re-growth of the cultural landscape. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is the Council of State Breck and the Centre satisfied with the development of Norwegian agriculture in the last four years? Has someone come to the finish line? Does the Council of State mean that one has fulfilled all the promises of offensive agriculture made by Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e332	The President will once again point out that it is the Councils that have to answer here, not representatives of individual government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e335	I very much agree with what was said in the introduction to the representative Tørresdal’s question, that development in Norwegian agriculture, among other things. depends on the fact that we are doing well to achieve a good income development, that we are caring for the cultural landscape, that we are caring for recruitment, and that we are caring for the opportunities for initial investment. I believe that this government has delivered quite well in most of these areas. In the case of agricultural operations carried out over the last four years, they facilitate an increase in the industry's income on average of NOK 73 000. It's far beyond what was the case in the last government period. We have also stressed that we should have opportunities for better investment. There has been a great deal of discussion in the annual agricultural agreements. This year, it has been revised for 200 million. NOK for increased investments, and I feel that I have received a positive reception in the industry. On the question of whether the Government is satisfied with the development, I would like to say that if Norwegian agriculture is to have development opportunities in the future, this government must continue the work in the next period. For it is only this government that can ensure that agricultural incomes continue to increase, so that agriculture is more competitive in terms of labour, and not least in order to ensure labour and development opportunities. So we're satisfied, but we want more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e344	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that the will is there, but the question is whether you have been given a reverse operation in agriculture. Now the state council replied as expected that one has increased the appropriations through the agricultural negotiations. And it was just supposed to be missing! No government has had more money to distribute than this. The question is not whether more money has been used or whether there has been a better settlement. The question is: has there been a change, has there been a reverse operation with this government – with the Minister of Agriculture of the Central Party – a majority government that has had a lot of power and great opportunities? Is there a clear reversal of investment intentions? Does one clearly increase the profitability of agriculture? Can a person register a larger will among young people to take over farming? Or, in another way, does the Council of State feel that there has now been optimism in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e353	Yes, in fact, I believe that there is greater optimism in agriculture now than it was in the last period. I can prove that by halving the exit from agriculture in the last period. Approximately 2 500 use was discontinued annually at the end of the previous government period. Now the annual decline is approx. half. That's proof that you've been able to reduce your take-off, and that's also proof that people want to be in the industry. The second point that I want to comment on is that we see a significant increase in investment. There is a significant need to invest more in operational buildings, invest more in land and invest more in agricultural resources. The framework conditions we have today do not satisfy this enough, even though we have improved significantly from the previous period. This is still not done well enough, but the investment desire is there, so I want to conclude that we have achieved a lot, but we will get even further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e360	There will be four follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e363	There is no reason for the Council of State to stand here and strike the chest and be proud of the agricultural policy that this government, and two central government councils, have led in this period. Finally, it has been proven that the central party in government does not contribute to higher incomes for the farmer than the other parties could have contributed to. So the agricultural settlement has become a trick with numbers. Last year the farmer was expected to receive over NOK 30 000 in increased income, while figures from the budget topic show that the result was minus approx. NOK 2,500. It shows that we need to have a significant system change if the Norwegian farmer is to receive increased income. The Council of State is now willing to look at other instruments proposed by the opposition, such as: tax relief, regulatory changes, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e372	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr is not correct. There has been a convergence of incomes between agriculture and other groups in the most recent period. We can prove that. Point 2: With regard to 2008, it is true that developments were worse than envisaged. It has been ensured through this year’s agreement – a compensation for 2008 through the year’s agreement. Point 3: With regard to the future, it would be very serious for Norwegian agriculture if the Progress Party were to implement its policy. On the last farm settlement, they have proposed cuttings of SEK 7.3 billion, or 75 pst. of agricultural income over one year. At the last farm settlement, they proposed a cut of about NOK 6 billion. It's quite obvious that 70 pst. reduction in agricultural incomes – which the Progress Party wants if it comes to power – will be a disaster for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e382	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e385	Farmers make up the largest group of traders in the country — and the right wants a profitable agriculture. An increasing number of rural agriculture is disappearing because the Government does not facilitate well enough agricultural co-operation. Smaller farms wishing to improve the efficiency of their operations in order to improve profitability and resource use are penalised by the fact that they are deprived of a large proportion of State subsidies if they merge. Co-workers Vegard Birkeland says to the Nations on 1 April that the legislation encourages hobbies. He goes on to say: ‘If we were to keep the grants, we would have to have built two, three separate poultry, but it’s hard to do it just to meet the criteria of the grant rules, a law that doesn’t follow the time.’ Can the Council of State justify why the Central Party and the Government are more concerned with punishing those farmers who want to operate effectively, rather than reward and encourage those who want to cooperate on more profitable operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e399	Co-operation is important in Norwegian agriculture. It is important because it meets the needs of many for regulated working time and for regulated leisure time. But when the Right claims that we distribute the co-operation – because that is what the representative Røbekk Nørve says here – I think it is completely wrong. The system of grants must not be such as to determine how a self-employed person organises its operations. It's like today that we're trying to make the same rules for co-operatives that produce a certain volume, as for a single farmer that produces the same volume. It must not be such that, by entering into joint operations, a single-bond has a higher grant than that of the single-bond producing the same volume. Today, there are still advantages to being co-operatives, among others. because the replacement schemes give better priority to joint ventures. We have tried to balance the legislation so that there will be equal conditions for cooperatives as for other applications of the same size, and that is a follow-up to the policy pursued by the representative Røbeck Nørve in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e404	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e407	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on a new negotiated agricultural agreement. It's a good tradition that's carried on, and that also the previous government succeeded. Then I don't want to join the black paint of Norwegian agriculture that seems to come out here in the hall. There's a lot of positive going on around Norwegian towns. It's investment will, it's effort, and it's happening very much positively. I would like to stress that in the last period – since the Council of State was in it – the investment will was at least as large as in this period. Now I'm not going to go into the details of this year's agricultural agreement – we'll have an opportunity to discuss it later – but it's based on an increase in target prices, and it's historic that the actual outcome of the agreement was higher than both demand and offer from the state. That's interesting in itself. But the Council of State believes that the possibilities are present to collect the prices it is charged, in relation to the pressure we have on imports... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e416	I am very pleased that the representative of Kongshaug supports me that there is no basis for blackmailing the situation in the industry, as some would like to do. This industry has prospects, provided that we continue to pursue a policy that sets a framework for imports, and that, not least, ensures the possibility of positive income developments in the future. With regard to this year’s agreement – which we will discuss later – I would just like to stress that the proposal to increase the target price by 290 million. I consider that I can achieve it as fully as possible. It is also the case that industry organisations assess it in the same way, so I think there will be a good balance in this year's agricultural agreement between target prices and budget money. I just want to stress at the end that there is a historical level of budget money in this year's agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e423	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e426	I think it's been an exciting exchange of words. The centre party has a slogan that says: ‘Take the whole country into action’. I believe the centre party in this – that they want to put the whole country into action – despite the fact that they have not been able to deliver fully on this in government, because we know that less use with limited production is more dependent on budget support. But that's the future we can do something about. Governments are also forward-looking in their line of argument. The Christian People's Party wants agriculture throughout the country with varied usage structures. We want to facilitate recruitment, so that the next generation wants to take over. Does the Council of State see that little money over the budget threatens the objective of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Government, of living settlements and a varied structure of use? Does the Council of State see that we have a challenge here in relation to the policy that has been pursued? And what future policy on the part of the Government will be in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e433	I am very pleased that the representative Holten Hemdal underlines the objective of the Christian People's Party, which is in line with the Government's objective, that we want agriculture throughout the country, that we want a varied structure of use and that we want – as I understand it – to maintain the channelling policy that ensures this objective. With regard to the issue of small amounts of money over the budget, I would like to stress that when we have agreed in this year's agricultural agreement to set aside 560 million. kr, it is historically high. It is higher than in all the other years of this period, and its net impact is higher than in the last ten years – a period during which representatives of the Holten Hemdal Party have also taken care of agriculture in government. I simply do not understand that there is too little money in this year's budget. The agricultural agreement this year will provide a good basis for income development. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e440	The number is over. The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e445	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I believe that the vast majority of people in this Chamber will agree that there is a serious concern about the situation in Pakistan, and that it must also be seen in the context of the situation that Norway has chosen to participate with great strength and activity – with full support from this magnificence, including from the Left – in Afghanistan. This was made clear at NATO's parliamentary meeting in a series of strong speeches. The Foreign Minister himself was present, but there were other representatives who were in charge of the situation. So we know that Pakistan now has a democratically elected government. We know that the government chose to give the Taliban control over parts of a region of the country, and we now see that after they took control, the Pakistani government has had to go to a military offensive, which they now seem to have great support for in the population. It is evident that this is happening because the Taliban regime in the Swart Valley has revealed how the Taliban behaves when they have power and that the civilian population opposes. So we don't see any demonstrations against the government military offensive, but we see that the government is being attacked by bombs, most recently in Lahore today. Most would agree that the situation in a state so close to Afghanistan and with which Norway has close contacts — many citizens have come from there and here — but which is also an Islamic state with nuclear weapons is a serious and demanding situation. So I'm essentially inviting the Foreign Minister to reason on this situation, because we've learned in recent years in Norway that what's far away, often comes close, and we've chosen to make sure that what's seriously far away, we're going to do something about it. That is why, under a UN mandate, we have chosen to participate in Afghanistan, we have chosen to do everything we do in that country. But now it is the situation in the neighbouring country that should call for great seriousness, and my open question to the Foreign Minister is whether we can get his assessment of that situation right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e457	I thank you for the question. There is no doubt that Pakistan is the country in the world that bears the greatest burden of terror, and what happened in Lahore in the morning hours today is probably an example of that. It is also true that, in recent months, Pakistan has moved to the top of a list of concerns about countries plagued by political unrest, terror and acts of war, and in that region, Pakistan may now be more worried than it has been for certain other neighbouring countries. I think it is right, as the representative of Dørum says, that there is now a civil democratically elected regime that takes on strong protests and goes to counter-attacks against the Taliban-led border areas. These are areas that have been managed by the Taliban under an agreement, to which the representative referred, but in reality this has not ever been a limit in the normal sense. So there are areas of Pakistan that the former military regime also had very little control over. Norway has indicated that we understand that the Pakistani authorities need to take strong countermeasures and use strong instruments to re-establish control. Whether this is going to be a sustainable strategy remains to be seen. There are hundreds of thousands – probably over a million – of people on the run. Whether they have something to return to and the consequences for the stability of Pakistan of their flight remains to be seen. Norway has stepped up humanitarian aid to Pakistan to meet precisely this need. Then it's important to get regional solutions. It is important, we believe – and this is what we communicated to the representatives who have been in Oslo this week – that Pakistan is now finding a natural reconciliation with India, where not the worst workshop is, but insists on helping to combat the rebel forces that plague both Pakistan and Afghanistan. The root of this is in many ways common. So we're dealing with a region that requires the political authorities to take responsibility together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e468	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive response, which the Left and I agree with. I will go straight to what the Foreign Minister was about, where I think Norway can make a difference by wise and good steps, and it is the humanitarian disaster that is now developing in Pakistan. It is clear that when two million people are fleeing from the Swat areas, the confidence in Pakistan in the current government's ability to deal with this will be quite crucial for the government's further legitimacy. Whether most people – who are an expression here in the country – still support the government in Pakistan will, in my view and in my view, be closely associated with how the government will be able to deal with and manage such a large flow of refugees. I am aware that Norway has made an effort here, so my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether we can step up our efforts, and whether we can take initiatives to ensure that the government in Pakistan is best able to offer these people solutions right now that make them feel that they have the authorities in their backs even when fighting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e475	Norway is an important contributor to the UN Emergency Aid Fund. That fund is now actively used against this group of people, where we have increased direct humanitarian aid to up to 80 million. kr exceptional to be on the ball. We're also diplomatic from Pakistan and in the different international contexts, so here Pakistan deserves a follow-up. The Americans are now contributing with increased humanitarian aid and other assistance. It is important that this happens in a way that also binds the government of Pakistan to reform and to an open – let's say – use that money so that they don't fall into the wrong hands. But this is a situation that – I agree with the representative of Dørum in – can play over to instability in the rest of the country. I don't think we're going to exaggerate that father either, because these are areas that, as I said, have been something outside the central Pakistani political pulse. I believe what happens from attacks in Lahore and in other parts of Pakistan's political and financial heart is a great threat to stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e480	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øyvind Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e483	The Taliban has now built up in several districts of North-West Pakistan, and many claim that terrorist organisations have taken control of more than 10 pst. of the country. The Pakistani Government tacitly accepted the development, inter alia: with the introduction of sharialover, is now replaced by military action against the Taliban, which has resulted in fighting acts and the loss of human lives on both sides. These areas have also been havens for militant terrorists fighting the NATO forces in Afghanistan, including Norway. A few days ago the Presidents of Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan gathered in Tehran, reportedly to discuss the fight against Islamic extremists and drugs. The latter two countries are now fighting closely against the Taliban and against their country becoming fundamentalist Islamic states. Iran's motives must be said to be more vague. What significance does the Foreign Minister think it will have for Iran now to participate in such a process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e490	We have long called for a stronger regional commitment from neighbouring countries to Afghanistan, now also Pakistan, to find solutions to these very complex problems. I choose to see positively that the meeting took place. I believe that Iran, which has a long border with these areas, needs to be involved and shoulder co-responsibility. I discussed this in Oslo yesterday with Kai Eide, who assesses this from a Kabul-UN perspective. It was also his opinion that when the two presidents found it useful to travel to Tehran, it was because they also saw a pragmatic interest in it. I believe that this is the recognition of the Obama administration, that Iran must be involved and shoulder co-responsibility in terms of both smuggling, drugs and border security, but also because the countries in the region must feel co-responsibility and not use the conflicts in Afghanistan and Pakistan as a pain point they can push to upset the United States and the West. So in sum, in this complex picture, I think that meeting is a positive signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e499	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e502	The situation in Pakistan is both local and regional and is linked to a much larger international image related to the emergence of fundamentalist Islamic movements, also linked to unstable states around the world. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs really concerns a more common possible reorientation in how we deal with that picture overall on a more western basis, for example. as a discussion theme through NATO and in other areas. We meet it in Somalia, we meet it in Pakistan, we meet it of course in Afghanistan, but we also meet it in many other conflicts around the Middle East, where the combination of fundamentalist Islam and terrorist organisation is also linked to some local conflicts. Are these issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes should be placed on the agenda of Western alliances?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e509	I believe it must be higher on the agenda in all forums, all alliances. It also happens in the alliances we belong to. I want to warn you that we are making this a theme West against the rest, because this terror primarily affects moderate Muslims who want to live their lives, work and move on in the usual way, as in Pakistan. There is no popular uprising about the Taliban and this type of extremism in Pakistan. What we see in Pakistan now is a middle class, broader classes in the country that rise up against the Taliban. I think part of the contribution we can make is to enter into alliances and confidentiality with these environments too, with these countries that are opposed to these cancers. That's why we have to talk about it in our alliances. But, as I said, there's no Western answer to this. It is not primarily the West that is challenged, but it is the millions of millions of people who live honest lives in the countries where extremism prevails.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e518	Today’s bomb explosion in Lahore is probably an expression of the explosive situation in Pakistan — the northwestern territory has been strongly focused in recent days. Two million people are on the run according to the Pakistani Senate President, whom I met on Monday, and as I know the Foreign Minister also met. In addition, there are 1.7 million refugees from Afghanistan. The sum of this and the conflicts that otherwise take place along the border with Afghanistan and in relation to Kashmir require that Norway, together with the international community, demonstrate support for the government that is now standing up for democracy and human rights on behalf of its population, but also in a wider context. We may have our questions to this government, but I think it is very important that we now support this regime through humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e523	I agree with the analysis provided by the representative. Therefore, Norway was very early in stepping up humanitarian aid, both because the money comes along well, and because we know that the aid actors who are able to operate in this very demanding area can quickly translate it. But it was also a political signal that went in the direction that I perceived the representative of the Højbrätten, that there is a lot we can be critical of in Pakistan, and we have to say that. This civil regime has not been in a long position, and it is also in a rather vulnerable situation. The reaction that they now have is at least a reaction that we need to understand and support. That support must be primarily political and humanitarian. What you might be worried about is the answer to this in a Afghanistan context. We have a mandate within Afghanistan. We do not have a mandate to operate inside Pakistan. But the United States, our main ally, also operates on that side and has an engagement there. There will also be a demanding balance between the alliance and Norway to participate in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e534	Many talk about the need for improved coordination of international civil efforts in Afghanistan. The United Nations coordinator, Kai Eide, stresses that this has not happened in close enough in this area. In Pakistan, there now appears to be a significant focus on the humanitarian situation, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned, shortly after it has arisen. But the challenge of coordinating this effort to prevent fragmentation and inefficiency, as we see in Afghanistan, remains to be solved. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether this is going through, whether Norway is focusing on this, and whether Norway can contribute anything in this area of coordination?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e541	First I want to say that there are two fairly different questions. In Afghanistan, support for the construction and construction of institutions and social areas that are not currently established is involved. There's Kai Eide right, and that's what Norway has always pointed out: it needs better coordination. The Minister of Defence explained this well with that 80 pst. of the means we give, through channels that can build Afghan capacity, and 20 pst. goes to the areas we're in. In Pakistan it's quite different, because it's now about emergency aid, emergency humanitarian aid. And the Norwegian line there will be that we will bet on those who have shown that they master these challenges, and there are not many. It will be the International Red Cross Committee, it will be part of the UN and part of the local auxiliaries. So our line is going to be to support those who have proven that they're mastering relationships. We believe it is important that the UN has a central role and that we follow the UN emergency appeals and the emergency appeals of the International Red Cross Committee. So we're going to participate with funds, and we're going to participate in discussions so that the funds are coordinated and used in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e550	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e553	My question goes to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre. I refer to the last few days of TV 2, where it appeared that an immigrant organisation, Pakistan Velferd’s Organisation, has been involved in cheating and tricking – if this is correct – and has been taxed on an unlawful basis, among others. they have received grants through the Municipality of Oslo on the basis of false membership lists. But besides that, it has also been revealed that this organisation has received 265,000 Norwegian kroner from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to finance a seminar on Islam and democracy. In this context, it has been revealed that false signatures have been produced, including: by a State Council in Pakistan, and also by a Supreme Court judge. This has also been admitted by the manager. There are also very special invoices on the ground, including: a travel bill of NOK 120000 on a handwritten paper note. Food was eaten at this seminar for 60 000 kroner. Does the State Council believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ payment of public support to immigrant organisations such as Pakistan The Velvverds Organisation testifies to reassuring control procedures in the Ministry, or has naivety become very prominent in such matters as these?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e562	I welcome the commitment of the representative Amundsen to single applications, and I assume that we will also get the kind of interest in other matters that we have for control, and where we have found shortcomings. Because there are many. There is no case of immigrants in my vocabulary. There are issues that do not follow control and routines and are followed up with a very strong focus from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is such a case. It concerns an organisation that has been granted an amount of NOK 265000 for a seminar activity. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs considered that there was a well-founded application that should be supported, but we have strict control procedures, and what we have recovered with regard to the reporting, receipts and documentation of the implemented programme does not meet our objectives. That's why we're going through it thoroughly. We're in the middle of that process and we can't draw a conclusion about how it's going to follow up. But the thing that's clear is that from our side, we have zero tolerance for mess with money that's being granted to the public. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a broad support portfolio for organisations and associations that organise activities — from peace, disarmament and European issues to issues related to, among others. religions and cultural dialogue. We're going to continue, but it's clear that the credibility of organisations' ability to get that support depends on their spending money in a regulatory way. And when that is not the case, we must react very harshly. We'll do that here as in other cases. There have been some of them, which have also included organisations that the representative Amundsen will call Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e569	I just have to point out that I'm not the one who invents the word'migrant organisations'. It is a concept used in the Ministry of Labour’s budgets – it is actually a separate line in their budgets. But it's a problem when you get these kinds of things. There is no doubt that there is any harm to the reputation of immigrant organisations, immigrants, when this type of case gets as much focus as this. I think it should be in everyone's interest that, for the sake of integration, we avoid these kinds of things, and then you get back to the routines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When 120,000 Norwegian kroner can be paid on the basis of a handwritten invoice, could it not have been possible to establish particularly good control procedures in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e576	All suspicions and abuses of public funds are serious. It is serious for the reputation of those who commit it. There are examples of Norwegian, well-trained humanitarian organisations that have not been able to document the use of their money abroad, which have been reduced, and of course there is a great burden on the reputation of these organisations. So on that question I can only answer that I really agree with the representative Amundsen that we have to take it very seriously. But I do not agree that this is going to be a matter which will virtually stigmatise the organisations working on issues related to cultural dialogue, religious dialogue and contacts between the large group of Northmen who have ties to countries far away. I think it is important that we use public funds to support the kind of activities, seminars and contact activities, but there should of course be very strict demands on how the money is used both here and in all other areas where taxpayers' money is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e581	There will be three follow-up questions – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e584	Much good work is done by voluntary organisations, and the Right is happy to support this work in various ways. But it is clear that in terms of money contributions to these, we depend on having a cleanness and that the control mechanisms work. Other departments have also found that there has been a lack of security in relation to aid to non-governmental organisations. There is nothing new that has happened here, and I think it is positive that the Council of State says they have a focus on this and are looking for improvements. The question is whether there should have been an assessment of whether there should be a minimum level of support for organisations, linked to the professionalism of the administration, so that they can cleanly handle the money they receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e593	This is a question of discretion. Two or three weeks ago, we received a request, among others. from the Right here in Stortinget to support the Oslo Freedom Forum, which had an event for human rights in Oslo a few days ago. That application came very late and had to be dealt with very quickly. We thought it was important to support this type of activity in the field of human rights and be able to provide support quickly, even though we might have needed some more time to process it. Sometimes you have to use discretion, and you also have to be able to take a certain risk of saying that there is an activity that we think it might be important to support. And then we're going to have to be very careful with the controls in retrospect. A very precise code here, I don't think it's that easy to establish. I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now has a very wide experience in assessing such applications. A great deal of Norwegian assistance goes through Norwegian voluntary humanitarian organisations, which have a very detailed reporting network. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I feel that this whole administrative procedure is well developed. That is why we are also able to address the problem when we receive feedback that does not meet the requirements we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e598	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e602	The Christian People's Party is hard on cheating and rotting with money that the public has granted. There is a breach of trust in the community, regardless of whether it is a political party, whether it is a humanitarian organisation or an immigrant organisation that has done so. But it is clear that it weakens the legitimacy of the organisation. It's sad for volunteer Norway. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we need the voluntary organisations precisely in the integration work. We need both the immigrants' own organisations and the other voluntary apparatus to achieve a good integration policy. That is why the Christian People's Party expects the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government to see to it that the routines are tightened up, so that the confidence of these voluntary organizations can be restored, just to build a diverse community where these important actors have confidence in the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e609	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government cannot build that trust. Organisations themselves must be responsible for the trust they need, both to their own members and to the authorities with which they apply for money. We have to make sure that we support activities that allow them to follow up their own commitment. Substantial proportions are often common in order to obtain support. But I want to say this: we're not just going to have strict control procedures, but we're going to see the benefits of supporting activities from just this type of organisation, and also acknowledge that they're operating in a field that's demanding. They shall have contact with countries far away where project applications are not specifically included in A4 categories. We should not simply say that because they are different from the usual professional applications we receive from Norwegian organisations, we reject them. That's why it's important to have a combination of being careful and open when dealing with applications and very thorough in how the feedback is, so that we can learn from it. It's a practice that we also apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e614	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e617	TV 2’s disclosures of what has happened to immigrant organisations clearly show that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ procedures when allocating such funds are far from satisfactory. In the past, the Ministry has received criticism from the Riksrevision because of the lack of follow-up and control of aid resources. Now it seems that the same is true of funds to organizations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently manages significant funds. It should therefore be expected to follow up with verification and control, but instead we see faulty routines and lack of follow-up. I don't know if there's naive, smartist attitudes in the department or a lack of legislation that makes it possible to get out money this way from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to ask whether we can now expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to address the problem, review legislation and procedures and ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e624	It's no surprise that I don't share this description of reality, which I think is highly trendy. I strongly oppose saying that we have a problem with the immigrant organisations, not to mention the entire very large portfolio of grant management that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has. It's a big challenge and a big task for us. The Riksrevision had a nuanced report, where they included: many positive aspects of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The circumstances in which the Riksrevision pointed out that there was a need for remedial action were already in progress when the report arrived, and that report came about a year ago. We've also come a long way since then. I can only confirm that we have a strong focus on the fact that our grant management is by the rules, that it shows good judgment, that it has good control, and that it is also able to support important projects, not only known projects, but also new projects that dare to go new ways. If we become so safety-oriented that we don't dare do so, we don't live up to our mandate. But the controls in retrospect must be tough. Those who break the rules must feel that they have broken them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e629	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e632	My question is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for our relationship with the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. About a recent verdict there, the State Council Trond Giske recently said the following: ‘That is a good question for me, in principle, of seven Strasbourg judges, from Azerbaijan and six other countries, knowing better how freedom of expression in Norway is safeguarded than the majority of the population does.’ I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessment of whether he thinks this is the right starting point for a debate. I have seen that the Foreign Minister believes that Trond Giske has freedom of speech. I also consider that, and I agree with him in that. But my question goes on. There is a technical debate on the transnationality of conventions among Norwegian lawyers. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that this statement by his fellow Member of State is a good starting point for such a debate? And is it a good starting point for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to shape other countries to support the Human Rights Court, all its work and respect for the decisions taken. It is a fact that many of the members of the Council of Europe are countries with a new and emerging democracy, where respect for court decisions is not always as great as it should be. Norway has always played the role of being a head of respect for such decisions. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the kind of statement I have just quoted strengthens Norway's credibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e647	Speaking of admonition, I follow the President's call that I respond on behalf of the Government. I would say on behalf of the Government that we respect, of course, the European Court of Human Rights, that human rights are even a priority in Norwegian law, and we also fully respect the legal system. Norway has been at the forefront and will continue to be at the forefront. It's the government's policy. Then I think those who have pointed out recently that the debate on transnationalism in relation to international conventions and rules is an important debate are right in that. It's important that we get the consequences of this, the decisions we're making as a magnification and government when we give power to both panels, groups and courts out there. And that debate should not be concluded for us, because if we stay outside the EU, which is a supranational system. So that debate I think it's important to take. In connection with the incorporation of the Women's Convention and its primacy, this was also an important question and a weighing-up of what it means for our own political system. There's also a discussion that I think government councils should participate in, that we can also problematize questions. I am not afraid that it weakens Norway's ability to work for these institutions, for the functioning of these institutions, because Norway is far ahead of all other countries when it comes to giving such conventions both a central place in our legislation and even priority. But let me be quite clear that there is no doubt that the Government is behind this important institution in the European human rights system. There is an institution and a system that ensures the legal certainty of individuals in the field of human rights, to which Norway has joined, is at the forefront and will remain at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e654	I note that my question as to whether he thinks the statements of the Council of State Giske were an appropriate starting point or will strengthen the Secretary of State's efforts to mold other countries in the right way, and which I also fully support, was not answered. I agree that there is an interesting debate, especially in connection with new conventions we are going into. But the government has not been very open in its internal debate about implementing the Women's Convention into Norwegian law. It was stated in the Soria Moria statement, since it has been silent until the proposition now came. So something very burning about debate cannot have the government, since it has not participated in this debate outwards, but only referred to internal processing. Then I also have to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to answer the question whether he thinks that discussing one of the conventions we have concluded at the earliest is a suitable starting point for doubting the authority of the Court of Human Rights by using opinions such as ‘seven judges from Strasbourg, from Azerbaijan and six other countries’, i.e. countries far away from us. That's the part of the statement that I'm responding to, and I think the foreign minister would also react deeply to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e663	Now I'm not going to stand here and preach my innermost thoughts, but the representative Foss has gone into that analysis, and I respect that. The question he asked was whether the kind of statements weaken the work I am doing. I have given the answer that I believe that this does not weaken the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e669	There will be two follow-up questions – first Øyvind Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e672	Representatives of the Government travel around the world and present themselves as the warmest defenders of human rights, and Norway has even become the seat of the UN Human Rights Council. It has also been very active both at government level and at parliamentary level to ensure that the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg is given the necessary renewal and modernisation, which I, as a member of the Human Rights Committee in the Council of Europe, have followed closely for several years. It is therefore difficult to see that the Norwegian Government, represented by Minister of Culture Giske, ignores elegantly and almost ridicules the decision of the European Court of Human Rights on political advertising. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs comfortable with the conduct of the Minister of Culture in this matter, and what does he think this will mean for Norway's influence on human rights issues in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e679	I believe it is reasonable for me to restrict my answer to the question of substance and not give the characteristics of other government councils to which it must be up to the representative to ask questions. But I believe, as I said, that Norway has a recognizable profile of defending these institutions, including other countries, not least the decision of Protocol 14, the additional protocol to which the Council of Europe was given in Madrid two weeks ago, i.e. a substitution system before the definitive system can come into force, testifies. So I don't have any trouble standing up for that. So it's part of our democracy that we have a debate on these issues. I believe that the Council of Europe is an organisation on which we have too little debate in terms of its importance. Perhaps the choice of new Secretary-General can change that. But that's my answer, Norway is recognizable in these areas, and I think those who want to ask outside Norway's borders will also be able to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e686	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e689	I really have a very simple question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that the derision of the Minister of Culture by the European Court of Human Rights contributes to more respect for the European Convention on Human Rights and its institutions or that it helps to strengthen their position in the Norwegian political debate that has now taken place in order to renegotiate the entire Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e696	If that was a simple question, I don't know. At least she's going to get a composite answer. I repeat what I say, that Norway's uprising about, and support for, the Human Rights Court, the Human Rights Convention and the apparatus are indisputable. The fact that we have a debate about how courts practice their supranationality, that we also bring our legislation in line with our international obligations when a court points out that it is not consistent, as we have shown in this last judgment, it follows in Norwegian practice. So I don't think, to give the simple answer, that the statement, which was probably a reference to a statement that someone else had made, and which the Minister of Culture so often repeated and in which he asked the same question in an open change of words in Norway, weakens the clear line that Norway has in human rights issues in this area too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e703	Then the oral question time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e717	The majority of the Presidency, all except the Vice-President of Stortinget, Carl I. Hagen, proposes to add to the guidelines for grants from Stortinget to the party groups a provision that the group grant cannot be used for the purchase of political advertising in the media for parties or large-scale groups. As can be seen from the positioning, the reason for this is that the Progress Party’s large-scale group has brought in newspapers with political content. After discussion with the group leaders, the majority of the Presidency has concluded that a ban on such use of the group support should be included in the legislation. Paragraph 4 of the current guidelines establishes as the main rule that there should be a clear distinction between the public support granted to the party organisations and the support granted over the budget of the Storting to the large-scale groups. The majority of the Presidency has placed a decisive emphasis on the impossibility of using a consistent distinction between the budget of large-scale groups and the budget of party organisations if large-scale groups are able to use the Grant of the Storting to purchase political advertising. An opening to use the group support for the purchase of advertising will in practice mean that the group support will go to the parties' election campaign, which would be contrary to the principle we have. It will also be in the disfavor of the small parties. The majority have put great emphasis on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e724	As I see this, it's a principle relationship, first and foremost. I fully support the fact that the Stortinge grants money to the large-scale groups to enable them to make a proper and good effort. I would like to remind you that at the last budgetary procedure, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has promoted proposals to reduce this support, because it has become quite extensive. And to put it this way, the goal, after the Brørby committee, which looked at this a few years ago, is that there should be one employee per. The rule was that when I was in Stortinget for the first time, there should be one employee for every ten staging representatives in a group. So there's been a time-lapse of support for the big groups in my time, and now you should start setting some limits soon. But then the question is, the fundamental question is, what are the big groups going to spend the money for? That's where I separate teams with the majority of the presidency. I have the principle view – and I have also stated this in the past – that it must be decided by the individual population itself. Some groups choose to use a lot of the money to hire consultants and office staff, others may buy services from outside. Some people may also sometimes be able to inform the population or organisations or individual groups about how the Storting has dealt with matters when they are dissatisfied with media information coverage of what is actually going on in Stortinget. The Group of the Progressive Alliance has raised questions about this. It was taken up and discussed in the Presidency, which took a decision that it was the occasion for information activities, and the Group of the Progressive Alliance has complied with the decisions of the Presidency. Then it has been complained from other big groups that the big group of the Progress Party has moved in an information advertisement. The only thing the presidency really had to object to was the location of the logo of the Stortinget. It should not be misunderstood to you that it was a big commercial. And: ‘The names of the party groups should, however, be placed under the logo in such context’. When another advertisement was pulled in, there was a new complaint, and that is what is behind this. The Storting’s office — the administration — went through this whole situation of principle, and the review turned into a proposal for a decision of the Presidency. The draft Constitutional Office of the Grand Duchy is as follows: ‘The Presidency does not consider that it would object to the use of the group support by the mainstreaming groups to cover the costs of legal policy advertising. However, the Presidency will not recommend that this type of expenditure be taken into account in determining the size of the group support.’;» I have chosen to subscribe to this position from our administration, while the majority of the Presidency – the other members – finds instead to propose a new third paragraph of Section 1 of the regulation, which states that it is not possible to buy ‘political advertising for parties or large-scale groups in the media’. So you don't have to be able to communicate what's going on in Stortinget to the select mass. We disagree with that, in the sense that we are going through a wide range of issues in the notes in the present position, which I do not find any reason to refer to. The most fundamental thing here is that we believe – and I believe – that it must be the individual group that manages the sum of money that Stortinget has allocated to the big business group. I think it's strange, and it kind of reminds me of political censorship that other political parties and groups will put obstacles in the way of how one group wants to use its resources. Once the allocation has been made by the Storting to the Storing Group, the larger the group is over it, and the more details you put in, the less freedom each group will have to do what it thinks. So this kind of control on the part of our competitors is, in fact, completely indisputable. That's why I've allowed myself to take the administration's proposal for a decision in the Presidency and convert it – the right of word – into a proposal for a decision in the Stortinget, the word "Presidencies" has then been replaced by "The Grand Duchy". I am therefore addressing the proposal, which is included on page 3 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e745	Mr. Bigton's Vice President Carl I. Hagen, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e748	I just want to, since the Central Party is not a member of the British Presidency, announce that we support the presidency's position and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e753	I consider it necessary to clarify a little bit what are the prerequisites for the majority proposal from the Presidency, since the representative Hagen used the word ‘sensorship’. I don't think that can be well intended to use in this context. The point is that it has never been such that the support to the party groups in Stortinget has been a sum of money for free supply, as the representative Hagen put it, or that it is up to each group, at its own discretion, to use these funds in the manner that seems appropriate at all times. There has always been a general guideline at the bottom, which states that group aid should go to ‘burden-related work’, and the discussion is concerned with: what is the concrete part of the delimitation of ‘burden-related work’? The majority have stressed the importance of continuing what has been the tradition so far, namely to stress that the support to the political parties and to the party organisations is one aid scheme, which has its specific justification because the parties are a vital part of democracy, and the support to the large-scale groups, which have a different justification and are different from the support to the party organisations. The reason why I cannot follow the proposal made by Carl I. Hagen is that it actually involves merging the two, and that it will have no purpose in the future to maintain two different support schemes. Then they had to be merged into one aid scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e760	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3162]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e776	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 63 for 2007-2008, by Erna Solberg and Jan Tore Sanner, proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure to ensure that minority rights are better respected in Stortinget. The Presidency gave its assent and the Storting decided to attach the proposal to the minutes. However, the Presidency noted in its statement that, irrespective of the parliamentary situation, it was prepared to assess whether minority rights in the Storting should be further developed. In this respect, it was pointed out that on 23 January 2008, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly adopted Resolution No. 1601 with recommended guidelines for the rights and responsibilities of the opposition in a democratic parliament. I will present the proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure on which the Presidency agrees or on which the majority is promoting. In the case of decisions taken in the committees on the date of the appointment, including the time limit for its release, the majority of the Presidency – Workers’ Party, SV and the Christian People’s Party – proposes that a minority of one third of the members of the Committee be entitled to refer the decision of the Committee to the Presidency for a decision. The minority must decide this in the same committee meeting as the majority decision. When a decision is referred to the Presidency under this rule, the decision of the Presidency shall be binding on the Committee. For committee hearings, the majority of the Presidency, the same parties, proposes a similar rule, whereby a minority of one third of committee members may refer the majority of the committee to a request for a hearing before the Presidency for a decision. In such cases, the decision of the Presidency shall be binding on the Committee as to whether a hearing is to be held and shall not be adjourned until the decision of the Presidency on the matter has been taken and, where appropriate, the hearing shall be held. The majority of the Presidency, the Workers' Party and the SV, also propose that the case-rapporteur be given the right to ask written questions on behalf of the Committee to the Council of State on a matter which is under consideration in the Committee, even if there is no majority in the Committee. It is proposed that such questions should be asked no later than one week before the date of such admissibility, in order to give the Council of State a reasonable time to reply and give the Committee a reasonable time to assess the answer. Where there is less than one week before the deadline for the surrender, majority decisions will be required in the Committee in order to be able to ask questions to the Council of State. Finally, a unanimous presidency promotes proposals to amend the rules on lines. Now it's known that if the thing doesn't decide anything else, it's access to line change. A replacement cord may cover up to five lines, but the thing may decide to limit it to three lines. In the context of the debate on a committee position, it is common practice for the Committee to propose a discussion procedure which also includes replying. Greater flexibility in the number of lines has been sought and the Presidency believes that this wish should be met. The rule that a replacement line is limited to five lines and that it may be decided to limit it to three lines is proposed in the Rules of Procedure. Instead, it is left to the President to arrange for the replacement of lines, including determining the number of lines, unless the Storting decides otherwise. Also, the rule that a speaker in a line change cannot get the word more than twice, except for the one that causes lines, is suggested deleted. Of course, the size may continue to decide that there should be no replication in a debate or that replication should only be allowed after certain speakers. Then, in principle, I would like to say this with minority rights: it is important that the minority – that is, the opposition – have as good a chance as possible to work to promote their views in dealing with a case, but one cannot institutionalise a practice that implies that the minority has the right to influence the final result itself, or that a majority is obliged to negotiate with the minority with a view to changing the majority’s view. The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy will then be advocating what the people in elections have decided. I would say that it is usually wise for the majority to listen to the minority, but it is something other than that the Rules of Procedure state that it has a duty to take account of the minority. It is only the people in elections who can and should judge whether a majority here has acted wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e797	The Storting incorporated its Rules of Procedure some years ago minority rights for a minority of one third of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge. This was the first time, and there is also some experience of this. I am very pleased that it was done, and that fortunately there has been a broad consensus, a consensus, in the Storting that it must be in particular in the control work with the executive, the government, so that the minority may have rights. Because if we have a majority government and a majority of the government parties in the control and constitution committee, all control activities could be stopped by the government parties. So there is unanimous agreement among all parties that it is a good and sensible system that we should be able to exercise control over a government even if it is a majority government. In some other areas, the issue has emerged, in particular at the initiative of the High Level Group, if this should be extended, for example. to a number of other matters. The Group of the Progressive Party and I have come to the conclusion that this will make sense in some other areas, of course, without any decision being taken, other than that it is in case preparation and the processes of the minority should have special rights. Of course, the decision in the main hall is the majority to understand, and no one has talked about any minority rights in the Stortinge when it comes to resolving matters. There I fully agree with Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland. But in the process and business in Stortinget, I think there should be several places where we can happily give a minority some rights. The experience of this four-year period, in which we have had a majority government, also warrants it, because there have been situations in which the majority of different committees have used their power to prevent public hearings in the context of matters of which there has been a great deal of interest, and then the process itself has been hindered. Part of our democracy is based on a great deal of publicity and openness, so that the voters, who are the sovereigns – as President Thorbjørn Jagland also mentioned – should know what is going on, and know the positions of the various parties. That is really the prerequisite for getting a good democracy and an election result based on insight. When you can prevent, for example, from majority parties. Committee hearings that many outside this house want, and that all parties that are not in government, that is, a large minority, want, can be a means of preventing public attention about a matter. That is one of the reasons why we are in favour of requiring committee hearings in all committees in the case preparation for a roll-out of one third of the members. We also think that a third of the Storting should be able to require an extraordinary meeting if necessary. We've also taken up some suggestions, both alone and with other parties. I want to refer to the setting instead of going into each case area. I then allow myself on behalf of Inge Wohnning, Ola T. Lånke and myself to take up the proposals No. 1-4, further proposal No 5, from Inge Wohnung and myself, proposal No. 6, from Ola T. Loan and myself, and on behalf of myself the proposals No. 7-10, except for proposal No. 9, which is not included, because it is identical to proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e810	Then Stortinget's vice president, Carl I. Hagen, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e813	After all, the issue of minority rights in the implementation of the Stortingen working system has been widely addressed by the different size groups. The setting available gives a clear picture of the views of the various parties on how minority rights should be exercised in Stortinget. For my own party, the Christian People's Party, I can only say that we would have liked to have seen that some further steps had been taken in granting the minority rights in the proceedings. The Christian People's Party has, in its conclusions, given the importance of finding positions we should be able to approach, whether we are in opposition or position, whether the party is part of a majority constellation or a minority constellation, and as we know it can be a demanding exercise. We see it, however, that the quality of the implementation of democratic governance is largely reflected in the way that a majority relates to a minority. It is our conclusion, however, that the principle that the majority always make the final decisions in a democracy is not, as President Jagland emphasised, threatened or in any way undermined by the changes adopted today by the Storting. We are also of the opinion that on some points some steps could have been taken without there being any danger of such an undermining. Here we can refer to the overview drawn up on these issues in a number of other countries that show that others have gone beyond Norway to grant rights to the minority. I'm not going to spend time going into detail about this. However, the Christian People's Party is involved in some minority proposals that we believe could have been adopted in favour of. In particular, this applies to the proposal that one third of the members of a committee may require an independent expert opinion on whether a proposal complies with the Constitution. The relationship between the Constitution and other laws is updated once, but not very often. In these few cases, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it would be a strength for the decision-making process if such a procurement had been carried out. I think we would occasionally have insisted on taking the time it takes to carry out such a more thorough review of the relationship between the Constitution and other laws. The second point I would like to mention is the proposal that a minority within a committee should be able to request that a proposal for a representative be submitted to the relevant State Council for its opinion in the course of the committee's proceedings. This proposal is well in line with a system which has already been practised in Stortinget, where representatives' proposals have generally been sent to the department or the Council of State concerned for an opinion. I can't see that this is rocking by the majority's right to decide, so I should like to see that it too would have fallen. Otherwise, I refer to the comments in the vote, and to the other suggestions that I am on behalf of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e828	First, for the sake of order, I would like to address the proposals No. 11 and 12, from the Presidency. The other proposals that I am behind were taken up by the Vice President of Storting. A brief comment on the point in which a unanimous presidency has made a recommendation to soften the Rules of Procedure in the case of line changes. I am very pleased that there was a consensus in the Presidency, because if we are to revitalise the debates here in the Chamber and create a greater interest in the media in what is going on in the Chamber, we should have a less rigid form of meeting than what we practice per person. today. I have full confidence that whoever sits in the President's office at any time is able to organize it in a discretionary and sensible way. It's a good step forward. So a little comment on what also Ola T. Lånke had to say, namely, the question of expert assessment of the constitutionality of legislative proposals that are being dealt with in the Stortinget. The Presidency finds that any minority right to request the opinion of the Supreme Court requires a constitutional amendment. We must then put forward proposals on what can be dealt with in the next period. The proposal that lies here, from Carl I. Hagen, Ola T. Lånke and myself, is awaiting such a possible constitutional change to ensure that a minority has the right to ask for expert legal assessment in cases where there is clearly a tension between a bill proposed by the Stortinget for consideration and the provisions of the Constitution in this area. I'll give you an example that, at my discretion, illustrates the timing of such a scheme. When we dealt with the Santa Claus directive in relation to the Constitution § 106 of this period, the majority in this hall used its marginal majority to vote down a wish on the part of the opposition to ask the Supreme Court to consider this. There is a situation which is very undesirable: using numerically overweight to reject such an option when there are clearly strong reasons why such an assessment should be made. This case will now instead be decided by the judiciary, and the Supreme Court will then probably get the case in its capacity as a court. I think the Stortinget had stood by in time to get an expert opinion, because what is now at risk is that the Supreme Court declares that the Stortinget as legislator is not able to do its job properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e839	The representative of Inge Wohnung has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3163]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e855	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Dagrun Eriksen, spokesman for the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e864	President, there's a government council missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e869	Yes, the President has discovered that there is a government council missing. Then we might have to wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e872	He was last observed at a press conference in the committee building. After a few minutes, said,
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e879	Now the Minister of Foreign Affairs is coming. It's not the right state council that's here, but then we're ready to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e882	Although it is not the right Council of State, he also enjoys listening to what we are now going to get to in Stortinget. I would like to thank the proposers who are following a theme that the Committee has also shown in the past that there is a great deal of willingness to find good solutions. Then I also want to thank the committee for being able to work together and do a good job. Through the examination of this good proposal, the Committee now concentrates on a good solution – I am very pleased about that. Those concerned by this proposal will benefit from a better everyday life through this Decision. The language and communication needs of children differ. This implies the need to adapt the training provision to the needs of the individual. The aim must be to ensure equal training opportunities for all children, irrespective of any disability. It is such that children with hearing impairment or deaf are entitled to receive training in and in sign language if they have sign language as the first language and an expert opinion justifying this. Unfortunately, however, children who, on the other hand, need alternative and/or supplementary communication, the ASK, do not have similar rights in the law. This group includes both those who are born with the need for ASK and those who are affected by illness or accidents later in life — and who need to learn this form of communication. It is important to stress that for those in need of sign language, and for those in need of ASK, this is a fundamental communication in order to communicate with others. It is therefore important that, through the provisions of the legislation, we provide for the training that is needed. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee proposes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess change in the Training Act so that students in need of language development, sign language development, alternative communication, supplementary communication, or a combination thereof, are guaranteed equivalent rights in the Law.’ The Committee also points out that there is a great need for basic knowledge on the ASK to be part of educational, special-pedagogical and health education. There are already good ASK knowledge environments in Norway, and the Committee considers it natural that one or more centres of expertise should be assessed, based on the already existing environment. To this end, the Committee has agreed on the following proposals for decisions: ‘The Government is asked to review the Statespeed system with a view to strengthening and further developing the competence of alternative and/or complementary communications [[ASK]] That's the content of the case. I believe that for those who are affected by this – whether it be the children, the parents of the children or the adults themselves – this is an attempt by the Stortinges to see the challenging situation and the struggle they are in for the help of basic communication. If we can manage to give better rights to this, it will help those who work in health care to communicate with them – but not least it will give these children a whole new opportunity to get help to get a basic form of communication. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for being constructive. I would like to thank the government parties for meeting one, and I would like to thank the proposers, who have followed up this theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e912	Then the president would like to welcome the councils – a little late.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e915	There is consensus in the Committee on this matter, but I need to say a few words to stress the importance – also for the Workers' Party – of a good solution for those children and adults who use alternative and complementary communication. We have been made aware, through the work on several issues in the Committee, of the difficulties encountered by children with different disabilities in their everyday lives in terms of language and communication. It's about the people we're talking about today, and it's about the deaf kids who have operated on a cochlea implant. In the case of the last, work is in progress to clarify the law. Now there is alternative and complementary communication. Both of these cases show how difficult it is if a law or regulation does not specifically mention a problem. It allows for judgement and interpretations that do not always respond to the challenges. Therefore, it is important that we now have a review of the law, so that it becomes clearer also in terms of alternative and complementary communication. It is not difficult to understand how important it is to be able to communicate with the environment — not least with their closest friends in everyday life. It's also a prerequisite for learning at school and for living a good life. That is why I am concerned that the law should be so clear and clear that children and parents do not fight for the necessary training and follow-up in their everyday lives. It has to be a matter of course. When it's not obvious, it's probably due not only to an unclear law, but also to a lack of competence in the different municipalities. It is therefore important that we build up environments with acute competence in alternative and/or supplementary communication that can guide professionals in the municipalities, which was the subject of the rapporteur. Such an environment must also be a natural part of the habilitation service provided by the specialist health and rehabilitation services in the municipalities. In this context, it has surprised me that language and communication are not always a natural part of the habilitation of children born with a disability, but that it is more random if it is. I trust that, in parallel with legal work, there will be a cross-sectoral environment of competence so that knowledge of alternative and complementary communication becomes a topic both for educational staff and for health workers. It will probably make life easier for those who rely on just alternative and complementary communication to make their lives work in a good way. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers, who have once again brought the topic into the committee – and thank the case-rapporteur for the job she has done. It feels good to agree on a matter that is important to so many people and their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e928	It happens so rarely that I want to say it very loudly and clearly this time: I agree with all the previous speakers said. What we're really talking about here is alternative and supplementary communication. There's a lot of people who don't know what it is, but there's a lot of kids that are able to communicate on a very basic level. These children have not had safe rights in Norwegian school. The Committee has worked on this over a long period of time, and the rapporteur has done a good job in this regard by ensuring that there is a unanimous committee to better safeguard the rights of these children. I really want to send a greeting to the evening post, because it happens that the evening post is running and counting how many proposals the Progress Party has received for the last year. The Progress Party, together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, thus promoted a similar proposal when dealing with the language message. It was not adopted. That it is adopted today, we are very pleased. The evening post can put one line in the margin: the proposals of the Advance Party – and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – are today adopted by a unanimous magnification, although it was Right that, commendably, this time addressed the issue in the Committee and in the Stortinget. Of course, the most important thing is that the children involved can lift the flag. They have fought a hard fight through their superiors and their organizations to make the decision we are making today at Stortinget. So this is a form of migration to all of us in their place. The setting is unanimous, so I'm not saying any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e939	It is very nice to be able to stand here today and discuss a proposal that has been endorsed by the whole Stortinget. It is a very important proposal, as the previous speakers have pointed out. When it's a majority government, and parties that don't belong to the government promote proposals, it's not often the proposals go through. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the government parties and to the case rapporteur for having a decision here today with which all parties are pleased. A few years ago, I received a visit to my office by Hanne. Hanne is not here today, but Hanne's mother is here today – she's sitting in the gallery. So Hanne brought her mother. They came into my office and wanted to tell me a little about Hanne's way of communicating. That was impressive things! Of course, it had never been like this because Hanna's mother was also very engaged and contributed to Hanne having a language to communicate with. Because that's what this is all about. It's about language. Many people believe that alternative and complementary communication is primarily about special education. But that's not what this is about, it's about language. And all of us who talk – and talk a lot, many claim – are aware of how important our language is to our ability to communicate, to our ability to be social and participate in society and to create identity. Then it's only right and fair that everyone should have the same opportunity to communicate, to have a language, to be able to participate in society and create an identity. We think it's a matter of course that everyone has the same rights. However, it is estimated in studies that 6,500 children and young people between 1 and 18 years of age today need different forms of communication that differ from other languages, which are also different from, for example, other languages. sign language. This is a very complex group. Many people have good physical and, not least, mental abilities, while others can only communicate with their eyes. It's the only part of their body they have the ability to communicate with the outside world. There's a lack of teaching material. There is little coordinated and quality assurance offer, and often it is based on coincidences as to what kind of offers these children get. The right-wing group organised a seminar at the beginning of January, and we invited professionals, parents and others with an interest in the issue. It became a very good seminar. One of the things we pulled out of that seminar, which was the background for us choosing to promote this proposal, was that almost everyone who was there could tell them that every time they met new people in the auxiliaries, in the health care system and at school, they had to start anew. Every time they had to tell the story one more time, they had to explain one more time. They used enormous resources to get what should be a matter of course for their children, the ability to communicate, the ability to develop a language. We therefore draw up a proposal for a representative in close cooperation with the professionals, the parents involved, those interested in the seminar. Based on the communication we have had in retrospect, this suggests that they are also pleased that the Storting is now making this decision. They feel that it means that the rights are respected in a completely different way than before. Then there's one important thing that I'll mention to the very end. When we talk about the ability to communicate, the ability to develop a language for children who, for various reasons, need alternatives and additional communication, we also need to remember related people – their parents and those around them. They must also learn the language. They also have to learn to communicate in a different way. Today, the vast majority of parents do so, because it is the seas that provide language training and communication with their children. However, it was only to be lacking that parents were not also offered alternative and complementary communication and training in it. As both the case rapporteur and Gerd Janne Kristoffersen had in mind in connection with auxiliaries, schools, teachers, and those who are going to meet children in school everyday life, it is important that everyone has competence in this field, so that all children and young people in Norway have the same right and the same opportunity to develop a language, to communicate, to develop identity and to participate in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e959	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a thorough and good work, which has led the Committee to stand together on two proposals that will be very important for those children and adults who need alternatives and/or supplementary communication. Expressing your feelings, communicating your needs, saying and showing your opinions, and interacting with others are essential both to create identity, to develop and to move towards the next goal. Communicating is a fundamental and important need for absolute all people. I am very pleased that today we are promoting two proposals that are unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. The proposals are going to be important to many parents who, through time and every day, have fought for their children to have the rights they actually have in the law today. Too many parents have cost a lot. I am very pleased that we now unanimously from Stortinget's side say that the ministry will come back with a legislative amendment, so that those who need alternative and/or supplementary communication will have equivalent rights within the law, in line with those who are deaf or hard of hearing. Parents, relatives and professionals around persons in need of the ASK are entitled to training through this Decision, in the same way as parents and relatives of deaf and hearing impaired persons. ASK is a relatively new concept in Norway. We haven't had enough and good enough professional skills anywhere in the country. Everyone has also not received the same type of training and assistance. It's been very random, depending on the municipality you've lived in. The proposal that the Stortinge will adopt today leads to much better. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Hanne's mother and all the other parents who have stood by and show us how important it is that we establish a bill that means that in the future we don't need to spend much time, energy and resources to give children the rights they need. According to the law today, every child has the right to receive the training it needs, but strengthening the law is extremely important. The Vestfold College is the only higher education institution providing training in the ASK. I want to praise them for the knowledge they have given us, and the commitment that the students and the employees there have shown to be committed to strengthening the competence of the ASK. I hope that the Government will work quickly to get the law change that we need in place, so that students who need language development, sign language, alternative and supplementary communication or a combination of these are guaranteed equivalent rights in the law. Strengthening the skills that I previously had is incredibly important. The fact that the Stortinget today decides to ask the Government to consider setting up one or more centres of excellence for the ASK is also incredibly important. I am very pleased that the Storting today is gathered about the decisions we are making. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the proposers for the proposal they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e980	Sometimes you feel that an extra important decision is being made on the Stortinget. This case – about ASK – is a good example of that. It is good that the proposal was put to the vote, and it is very good that it is unanimously adopted. It should, of course, be that everyone gets the help they need to express themselves. However, the Training Act is not clear enough as regards the rights of persons in need of alternative and/or complementary communication. Many parents and children do not get the help they need, and the variations are large from municipality to municipality. Persons using ASK are also not a homogeneous group. We will find, for example: Jonas, 30 years old, highly educated, with a stormy career, which ended its life in a dramatic car accident. And we find Per, 9 years old, mentally retarded, formerly unobtrusive because he didn't have the ability to communicate. But really I'm going to tell the story about Hanne as an illustration of the situation for this group. Hanne is mentioned earlier today, and I have been allowed to tell this story of her mother. We're all part of it. Hanne had a serious birth injury. It gave her the diagnosis of a type of CP. She was diagnosed when she was eight months old. She cried almost 24 hours a day for the first year of her life. That's enough because she didn't master her own body. Still, the family saw that she accompanied from an early age. She chattered, as other children do, waiting for a walk and gave the family smiles and laughter in the right places. But the words never came. That Hanne hears and sees well, knew the family, but her body doesn't get to do what she wants. Hanne can't hold a pencil. She can't sit, she can't stand and she can't go. The mouth is nice to smile with, but she is unable to shape the words she wants to express. For children like Hanne, there's a young boy of things going to happen around them. There is follow-up with physiotherapist, doctor, aids, etc. But the focus, as it has previously been mentioned here today, was never on communication. The children's rehabilitation in the hospital never mentioned it as a separate theme. They were mainly concerned with objectives and weight and all the physical challenges that accompany her damage. But her head to Hanne, her intellect and psyche were not the theme, nor her lack of language development. And the years went by. Mother began to become impatient and managed to massage herself to a reference to the Rikshospitalet when Hanne was three and a half years old. After some time she was referred to the communication team at the Rikshospitalet. There, Hanne was tested when she was probably four years old. But not even there had the relevant competence in this area as they did not have knowledge of technical aids that the family would need further. But the cognitive tests showed that Hanne scored age-adequately or over it. It is strong, considering that she had missed so much earlier in her life. After this, child rehabilitation could not ignore the family that had been trying to show, that Hanne understands everything that is said, but that she gets no expression. Gradually the family got in touch with NAV SICHTE. It was the big breakthrough – after many telephone calls to the University of Trondheim to check if there were computers that can be controlled with your eyes etc. NIGHT came to Hanne's nursery when she was a little over five years old. This was serious and real competence at the high level, and finally someone took Hanne and her problems seriously. Hanne started school when she was six years old. That summer the family got a lot of equipment home, but time for training was minimal. Help with creating what was supposed to be in the computer could not be found. But just before Christmas in the first class, Hanne got his own voice. Then she could sail in front of the computer and select symbols and set sound to. That, of course, was a fantastic situation for everyone. She got a computer at home on the kitchen table. The first day, Mom said she said, "Come here, Mom, happy for you." This, of course, was a revolution. She's creative and wise, but Hanne had to be six years old before she got her own voice. This story illustrates how random it is that someone is getting help, and how resource-intensive it is for the family to find out in an unbridled jungle. It is therefore very important that we get this decision today, which makes everyone, regardless of whether they need alternative and/or supplementary communication, get equivalent rights in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1001	At the end of my fourth and last growing period, I have to say that there are some little golden moments in parliamentary life, how the weight of human life out there is so strong that everyone agrees. The previous speakers have described this in an excellent way. Both the last speakers and all the others, including The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has described what alternative and complementary communication is all about. I just take the word to say that it's nice to be in such a golden moment, it doesn't always happen. When it happens, you have to take the pleasure in it. The joy of that is first of all all what has been said here about some children out there, hopefully, when this is implemented, getting a better world, a better everyday life, and being seen and heard by us who are going to make the laws. Conflicts and disagreements between opposition and position are put aside – it's almost like being in a biblical situation, where the lion and the lamb graze next to each other. I'm a little inspired by these moments sometimes. But let's say it this way: we're actually in such a golden moment. It is very nice to give praise to absolutely everyone: to a government council that extends, to government parties that also do so, to a case rapporteur who does the job, and to everyone else who has been on the run. It's sometimes a little jubilee day in Stortinget's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1010	Yes, it is not to be despised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1013	Yes, here it's just to praise everyone and say that it's very happy that there's a broad consensus that children, young people and adults who need special training to develop their language and communicate are entitled to an equivalent training offer. In order to achieve this, it is a requirement that the educational support apparatus operates and that municipalities and county councils provide the dishes provided by individuals with specific language and communication needs. Currently, children under the age of compulsory training with special educational assistance needs under Section 5-7 of the Training Act are entitled to such assistance. According to Section 5-1 of the Training Act, everyone in elementary and secondary schools who cannot benefit satisfactorily from the regular training provision has the right to special education. In accordance with Section 4A-2 of the Act, the adults who have a particular need for training in order to develop or maintain the same basic skills are entitled to such training. It may vary, it must be adapted to the individual supply to be provided, and there will be wide variations in what one may need when it relates to the contents of the special educational assistance and special education. People who need training in basic skills in areas such as: language and communication shall, in accordance with the special education rules, be trained to understand and understand others. Representatives Eriksen Soreide, Höie, Gundersen, Sjøli, Thommessen and Dahl have made a private proposal to propose changes to the training law. The Committee has amended the proposal so that the Government is now asked to consider any change to the training law. And I want to show you that the Government has downgraded a selection to assess whether we have a system that provides early help to all children with special needs, all of whom are of course notable. The selection shall assess measures that can ensure early response and an equivalent training provision for children. It is rented by Jorid Midtlyng, and they will deliver the option by 1 July of this year. The selection recommendations will be an important starting point to see if there is a need for changes in the training law. The follow-up to the Midlyng selection will begin immediately after the report from the selection. Assessments of changes in training law will be an important and central part of this work, together with what is now agreed in Stortinget. Representatives who have put forward the proposal have also proposed the establishment of a national centre of excellence to develop, further develop and disseminate expertise on alternative and complementary communication. At this point, the Committee has changed its attitude, and we are asked to review the Statped system with a view to enhancing competence and to assessing the establishment of the National Centre of Competence for the ASK. It is very important to have good and up-to-date skills in alternative and complementary communication for those with major communication difficulties as a result of a complete or partial lack of speech. People who need alternative and complementary communication often have complex needs as a result of difficulties in several areas. The State special educational support system, Statped, shall have competence in a subject area that one cannot expect the individual municipality to have. It is therefore important for Statped to be able to provide services that local authorities are asking for and that municipalities need help to develop. A central theme in the Mid-Line selection is a review of the tasks and competences of Statped. It will be followed up at that point, of course even when it is necessary to consider additional needs. I just want to end by saying that I'm also very happy that you've reached agreement on this point. I think that's a point where we're absolutely forced to do a common job. I want to give priority to the fact that what is now agreed in the Stortinget together with the settings of the Midlyng selection, is followed up in a serious and proper way – that we are actually going into matters and doing what is necessary, both on the competence page and on the law page, to ensure the rights and competences of all in that area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1036	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3165]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1052	At the request of the Church, the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1061	The representative proposal is divided into three separate proposals. The proponents of the Progress Party are only concerned with two of the proposals, while the opposition parties are grouped together on the first. Overall, the proposals concern adapted school training, adaptation for students more practical than theoretical, adaptation for high-level students, and seamless transition between primary and secondary schools. Let me first relate a few words to the term ‘adapted training’. From 1 August last year, the following was included in the Training Act as § 1-3: ‘The training shall be adapted to the abilities and abilities of the individual student, apprentice and apprentice.’ This clarification in the law had broad support when it was signaled in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007. We learn all the time. Some learn quickly, while others need more time. All students are equivalent, even though they are different. Everybody can't learn as much. Not everyone can achieve the same goal. But everyone can learn, and everyone can achieve their goals. Individual adaptation is not in contrast to community learning. Although students have different ways of learning — different learning styles — learning different learning strategies is part of the training. We must not lose sight of the learning community in our quest for ways to achieve adapted education. The better the general education, the less special arrangements will be needed. Teachers who master and use several teaching methods usually have students who achieve better results. Variation is good. Fortunately, this is the case in school today, which is a relatively broad repertoire of teaching and learning activities. The entire committee emphasises the importance of meeting high expectations at school for all students, and of course this also applies to those who perform the most professionally. The entire Committee points out that provision has been made for students in secondary education to be able to take upper secondary education if the school owner is in favour of doing so. However, as you know, there are two levels of administration with different owners, and it is important that these levels are able to accommodate the situation so that students get the challenges they need. An overall committee is very clear on the importance of adapted training as a continuous principle throughout initial training. All students shall meet realistic challenges and requirements in their work on the subject and which they can master on their own or with others. The Committee stresses the importance of students being able to meet a variety of training courses in terms of their tasks, educational material, working methods, learning materials – variety of organisation and intensity of training. The government has announced a major communication on future skills needs that will address some of the challenges posed by proposers. Furthermore, the so-called Midlyng Committee will come up with its position this summer and discuss access to make deviations from ordinary courses in school. It might be a good idea to wait for these documents before concluding a bastant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1085	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job, even though I had hoped that today we could have had two things with a unanimous big deal. This is an important question for a lot of students, and which I want to come back to, the Council of State has itself announced that he really agrees with what is the intention of the proposals. To meet the challenges in Norwegian school, adapted training is a crucial tool. Adapted training must in fact be a real one right after the Knowledge Lift, but it turns out that the framework for this within the Knowledge Lift can be too narrow. In many of the things we've been presented in the media lately, it turns out that flexibility is inadequate. It is therefore necessary to implement concrete measures to improve the situation. Students who are more practical than theoretical are often struggling at primary school because the training is essentially natural enough to be theory. For this reason, the Progress Party encourages proposals to ensure that, if amended, the possibility of opening up different practical arrangements is also available in primary school. We are pleased that an overall opposition is united on this proposal. In the media, we have seen a number of examples of students who are not given appropriate training — not only those students who are a bit attached to their classmates, but also those students who are said to be too good. It's going to be about 5 pst. by students who need special training because they are better than the other students. The promise of knowledge was to change Norwegian school from being an average-based school where everyone would learn exactly the same regardless of their professional level, to a school where you would raise everyone's professional level regardless of the starting point. But now we see that, for example. high school students who are incredibly skilled in mathematics, and who probably would have turned me down in the boots, are not allowed to take subjects outside primary school. A student who is very good at mathematics, goes to sixth or seventh grade, in today's system can't take mathematics at secondary level without simultaneously losing the right to continue mathematics education in primary school. This is a lack of flexibility that weakens the student's position in the education system and should be changed. The current treatment setting was issued on 14 May. Four days later, the minister of knowledge beams from the front page of the Evening Post and promises to offer a school offer to the elite – in fact, in line with the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter. Then it is strange that the council did not ask their coffers to support those proposals, four days before the evening post. I therefore take it more or less as a matter of course that the government parties will today vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party in the Chamber. If not, the Stortinget will have already voted down proposals that the Council of State has promised to support. The evening post on May 18th also says of a girl who is in first class. She was bored at school because she had finished her math book when she was six years old. So now she's seven. The girl says, "I liked it so much, but it's boring that I finished so fast." So a six-year-old who wants to absorb more knowledge feels that the school is unable to meet her expectations. Then there is little help with a new big message – after four years with an SV guard in the Ministry of Knowledge. Of course, I can take the slightly overbearing tone, so please welcome the Council of State and say it is nice that SV, even, acknowledges that it is necessary to facilitate the good students in a better way. But it's too serious to leave it. There is an important difference between the Progress Party and the Council of State. We act while Solhjell talks. State councils say, for example: in the evening post of 18 May: ‘This is a very big problem in Norwegian school. When I bring this up in lectures, I feel that many people think it's good that someone finally talks openly about the theme." It's time to stop talking; we have to take out the hammer and start acting. It has the state council the opportunity to do today. If the proposals for the Progress Party are adopted today, the Council of State can start the work he says in the evening post that he is burning for as early as tomorrow. If we are to wait for the Government's announcement in June, the Council of State will not be able to start this work until the end of November. And with respect to reporting, I hope we have a new government council in the Ministry of Knowledge. So students have to meet a new school year — without Solhell being able to fulfill their promises. Students must continue to wear for their right to adapted training. It doesn't matter! It's not a force for action, it's a paralysis of action. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1115	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1118	Adapted training is a continuous principle throughout basic training, as the case-law rapporteur said. All students are different, have different interests, ambitions and assumptions and need to be trained to do this. The promise of knowledge introduced by the previous government has included a number of possibilities to make training genuinely adapted to the needs of the country. I therefore thought that this representative proposal was to a large extent to open the doors, and that the problem has been too poor to follow up during today's government. But then came the evening post on 19 May – as also mentioned earlier – with a play from the Minister of Knowledge, the title of which was «The Law to Be Good». The right had a national meeting, and the council had suddenly a very need to mark some ambitions on behalf of the school. These are new tones from the Council of State, but this too is probably inconclusive rhetoric. Adapted training requires that the school has both expectations for the individual student and demands that the individual have to stretch a little to reach them. The government's focus was on the fact that the nicest people were neglected, and that it was taboo talking about the school having neglected the best. Well, that tells us a lot about the internal discussions in the red-green government. The taboos must have been found there, and one may have strong suspicions that the Council of State has not known the content of the school reform he has now been responsible for implementing for four years, namely the knowledge promise. Local freedom and increased flexibility in professional and hourly distribution, increased hours of childhood, programme courses for youth choices and options for young students to choose upper secondary education and new structures of secondary education have been introduced with the Knowledge Lift. It is therefore shocking that the Council of State can present the possibilities it offers, as news after managing the reform for four years. It has thus cost Norwegian school four years with taboo work in SV, and in the Red-Greens, before the Council of State came so far that he was ready to read what the Knowledge promise has as its goal and instruments. Then he would quickly have found out that there is no need for a new big message to also focus on the good students. The overall grips were taken in the Knowledge Promise, we only need a State Council that follows it up. Norwegian school will perfectly manage to keep two thoughts in its head at the same time. All students shall be given opportunities. Norwegian Schools must be able to lift the weak while also providing development opportunities for students with special interests, professional strength or talent. Perhaps the biggest challenge is to provide students with a practical, professionally oriented interest with good offers. This is illustrated by the drop-out rates on many professional lines. There have been some issues in the media lately – which were also discussed in the previous speech – that show that the Council of State also has a bureaucracy that struggles to perceive that the school is there to develop the individual, not to create a unit of all of us. The necessary processes of change do not take less time because, apparently, the Council of State is one of the last to get along with the changes in the promise of knowledge in this area. The right is the co-proposal for proposal No. 1 and will support the proposals No. 2 and 3 during the vote. We see it as such that this has already been adopted by the Stortinge in connection with the Knowledge Promise. The most important thing for the Right is to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Knowledge Lift. Then we need a government and a government council that knows the reform, and that has pressure and focus on real-time tailored training. There are enough examples that have shown that we don't have that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1131	There were a lot of big and strong words here from Stortinget's chair. To start with the conclusion: I believe that the proposals that have been made here are not appropriate, and that they are already, in all respects, already taken care of in the law we have, and in the work we are trying to do. But as several representatives have been involved, and as it has been expressed in the past, it is a long way to go before one can really manage to put this into practice in important areas. Let me make a brief comment: the overarching question is that one in school should try to provide an equivalent training with high ambitions and high expectations for each individual student. It shall take place within a Community framework, at the same time as seeing the differences, the talents, the different capacities and the interests of the students. It is a major and demanding challenge for the individual school and for the individual teacher to put this into practice. These proposals are concerned with three points. The one is a very important point, that one should value both theory and practice in school, and that the elephants with different interests should use their talents. Let me, however, make a brief comment on the use of the terms ‘practical’ and ‘theoretical’ used in the proposal and by the representative Anundsen. I think most people can be a few that we have different facilities as a human being, and not least that we gradually develop different interests. But to say that some of us are ‘theoretical’ or ‘practical’ think I’m an expression that I would be a little careful with. Most of us probably use "practice" and "theory" slightly messy, if any. When I say it – not least in school days – it is also because a person often talks about practical and theoretical facilities, or practical and theoretical subjects. But they called theoretical subjects, like mathematics or Norwegian, contain some of the most basic practical properties that one needs to bring with him here in life. Reading is a fundamental practical property. If you're going to become a capable electrician or a plumber, there's a lot of complex professional theory that you have to have a good overview of. So I think it can be too easy to talk about it, I think that the main track must be a practical correction of education and training and the provision of many different subjects, and that all students need that there is both a practical and a theoretical aspect of the training that is well expressed. So we already have an opening so that you can take a class from the level into some of the ongoing subjects. As I have warned, we're already working on expanding it to all the subjects, and we're working systematically on what might be the main problem today, namely that those systems aren't in use to a very large extent around Norway. Some of the larger cities do, but in a lot of secondary schools and youth schools in Norway, it's not well known that we have such schemes, and we haven't been able to work well enough. I also think that's what the representative Anundsen is aiming for here, when he says that one has to resign from the right to training in order to follow higher-level education. That's not true. But it's possible he's aiming that if you're going to take a final exam at elementary school, you have to do it. This is because the exam is a final test; a test cannot be repeated. It is important to bear in mind that a person can claim this right, but that one can demand him back and continue training later on at the same level. This does not mean that training cannot be adapted to another school or to another level – it is a requirement – but it is about the conduct of examinations. I suppose that's what the representative is looking for in proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox To sum up, these are important problem settings, which, in my opinion, have been largely preserved in the law. We work with improvements and adjustments when this is the case, but the big challenge is to put this into practice. There will be several actions in the competence messages. Many have been completed at these points only during the last year. In the Knowledge Board itself, a focus is also on this issue, both for strong elephants to have bigger challenges and for those who need more help to get them, so that everyone can take advantage of their talents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1151	If the main challenge has been to put things into practice, it is strange that the Council of State has waited four years with a communication on how to ensure and put adapted training into practice. I think it is with respect to report is a little relaxed. That's why there are probably other things that also contribute to the barriers. Even in the evening post, the Council of State has said that there is a need for regulatory changes to ensure an even better organized arrangement for the most good students. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the Council of State is now saying that these are not appropriate proposals. One of the main problems is that we do not have a seamless transition between the administrative level, the municipality and the county. One proposal should be supported by the parties of the Council of State in the Grand Duchy, because it is absolutely crucial and is an extremely useful proposal in relation to what the Council of State has said. Why won't the Council of State now start these processes by getting the Biggest's acceptance and pressure on these issues today, so that the Council of State can start working tomorrow? Why does the Council insist on waiting until November?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1160	Seriously speaking, we have been presenting messages, legislative proposals and permissions to ensure appropriate training through the Knowledge Lift for years now. So the representative, Anundsen, has found out that it's actually just a big message that comes in a few weeks, this is about. The big news is about how we are going to ensure that society's skills needs are brought together at different levels of education. The message has a theme that also applies here, namely that we should extend the right to take a level from above, and several other points, such as: where there is a case of non-compliance in the secondary school. But the main perspective here is in the Knowledge Lift. We've been working on that for three and a half years, and it's been making progress. Many of these things are being done today. So to the question of "sleepless transition". Unless the representative wants him to move to the levels so that basic and continuing schools are at the same level of management, I again see it as a matter of getting a systematic and good cooperation – and thus something that is already being worked with in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1167	For years it has been that SV has had no tradition of taking into account those students who need adapted training, whether there have been those students who need additional challenges or those who need extra help. On the contrary, it was that VG actually had a look up with the then knowledge minister Øystein Djupedal, who admits that SV has been too little concerned with knowledge in the school, admits that the party has chosen incorrectly, and gives itself sail sprints because SV has not given enough attention to knowledge in the school. It is difficult to disagree with the former Minister of Knowledge, but it is therefore the case today that there is, for example, a promise of knowledge. 270 students in the Oslo school who take a higher education because there was something the Stortinge decided four years ago. Then my question is really two-fold: what separates what the Council of State is now talking about is going to happen in the coming big message from what has already been adopted? And why hasn't the Council of State done anything in the four years he's been with government to make it a reality for more of what we decided in connection with the promise of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1177	That's what we've done! Because we have introduced this today in Tromsø, Trondheim, Oslo and other cities. But then we open up so that it can happen in every subject, in a simple way, from youth school to further education. It is not opened for before, and it is not accepted in Size. It will be important for many of the other subjects, not just for the ongoing subjects. For many years, SV’s slogans have been ‘different people — equal opportunities’, and the core of our education policy has been that we should see each individual person. More help should be provided to those who need more help. Those who need extra challenges will get more of that. But what has been the difference between Right and SV is that Right sees to it that one should place those who are good into one's own groups, and those who are weak, into other groups, that there should be proper schools for those who have individual talents, and that a greater degree should open up to privatisation for some groups rather than that all should be in the public sphere. So there's a completely different view of how important the community is at the bottom. We see the individual within the framework of the common sphere – not schooling for different student groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1184	I want to raise my eyes a little, because after all that's what's going on out there in the municipalities it depends on. No matter how many paragraphs we have to adopt, what we are discussing here of good suggestions, and which parties join, that's what's going on in the municipalities, that's important. Today it's like custom training very often beaches on bad economics. Assistants are used, in school everyday life the good students often help the other students in the class, and they themselves do not get challenges. What we're actually struggling with is getting this in place, getting this out to the municipalities, so that you can really get what we now have to adopt, no matter what the individual party's position is. So my question is, how will the Council of State ensure that this is implemented? Is it that he wants a thing, a little chat with the Ministry of Finance? Will he be clear in relation to local democracy in terms of prioritising money use, or will he perhaps consider some form of earmarking in order to receive adapted training?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1191	The most important thing is to ensure the same good growth in the local economy as in the last few years. This has been a major issue for the individual municipality, which has allowed them to give priority to care for the elderly, municipal health services, schools and kindergartens, and so on. has led to a growth in teachers, with 4000 new teachers in the Norwegian school. It has been important, but we still need to have even greater ambitions to grow resources for the school in the years to come. This must happen within the financial framework of the municipalities and counties, but it is also important to look at other measures to get it done, get an even closer follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1196	The rapporteur was so much involved, and we have a major challenge in school, because we have different levels of administration responsible for high school and basic school. The Progress Party and the Right have made a small remark that this is where you should open up so that more municipalities can be allowed to run high school. We've also suggested it repeatedly. Will the Council of State address the challenge of creating good transitions between the two levels — I have seen for myself that there is no contact between secondary and secondary level — to facilitate the transition in order to gain the opportunity to take upper secondary education? Will the Council of State open up so that more municipalities can be allowed to pursue secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1203	I don't think it's a structural issue, the level of management that's at it, which is the key solution, not to provide better training, nor to fight against non-response in a better way. No matter what I think, there's a need for different cultures at the different school levels to work together better, different physical locations, and one will, in any case, need closer cooperation at the level of leadership and school. So I have more faith in making clear demands on the transmission of information, doing what we're introducing for the first time in the fall, the simple screening test in the first year of further education, ensuring that absence is carried out on the testimonial, as we do at the youth stage, and that the advice is good both at youth and at further education. I think it's the central measures when it comes to non-response, as well as the ability to choose a subject from above, which will then apply to all subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1208	It was the Council of State's response to the representative, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, who led me to speak, because suddenly the Knowledgelift was equal to the Right – in this context similar to the Left and Christian People's Party as well – who, unlike SV, was against the public common school, etc. This became a bit of a special rhetoric for me, because the entire Knowledge promise is based on our having a public common school where you want all students to be seen – they're to be seen by good teachers, they're to be given a customized training. And it's rather the way that the difference here is in the will to bet on this, and then I don't think we should have that kind of descriptions. It is also true that at the end of this ageing period, the Council of State Solhjell has buried about every piece of SV school programme in 2005, because it is actually quite different. And since I sometimes quote the biblical, it's always more joy over the one who turns around in time and takes the cycle of knowledge completely than the one who never does. And the state council is now taking it completely out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1213	If we're going to use the notion of'special rhetoric' about something, I might think 'have dug' the whole program might qualify for that category. Similarly, the representative Eriksen Soreide's claim here that SV has never been concerned with either the weak or the strong students. That claim led me to go a little bit through what I think is the image, that in the Knowledge Lift there is a broad consensus about the ambitions that lie there. On the other hand, where there is a clear disembarkation between the right and the left – where the left is in an intermediate position, but after a while quite close to the right, to put it like that – is the question of how to ensure appropriate training. I strongly believe — and when it comes to learning outcomes, research also shows that it is right — that there is a strong need to do so within a common framework, not at e.g. to place elephants in different classes/groups based on level, or to place them in different schools. I also believe that a comprehensive privatisation of the school may be part of that image.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1218	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1223	I initially had no desire to extend this debate, but I think it is actually necessary to expect a minimum degree of honesty and perseverance when the Council of State stands on the platform. I have sometimes wondered where he takes it from when he comes with an outcome to the Right and other parties that are behind the Knowledge Lift, for example. It's like the desire to strengthen the public school there 97-98 pst. by all Norwegian children go, is what is the whole basic idea, the whole core of the fact that the previous government developed, presented and adopted the Knowledge promise in Stortinget. It was a desire to strengthen training both for those students who need extra follow-up, and for those students who are far ahead of the others. That was the whole core of the Knowledge Lift. That's why the promise of knowledge opened up to, as the Storting decided, that you can get to take a profession at a higher level than you go, because we knew it was going to stimulate that many of those who have skills and talents in special subjects could be allowed to pursue those skills and talents. Then it becomes very strange when the Council of State stands here and claims that, first of all, this is not a policy that the parties put in the previous government are leading, and second, trying to claim that we are pursuing a different policy than we are actually doing. It becomes very strange to hear a councillor who, because he understands he has a bad case, is trying to attack the Right for a policy we don't have, for example. that we should be concerned with dividing students into ‘different classes/groups based on level’ and that we generally only want special schools. This is pointless! What the right has adopted at its national meeting is that we want the right to adapted training, which all students have under the training law, to be real from the beginning of the school cycle. That means you have to be flexible. Some schools are already acting in such a way that they, for example: have a few hours in a week or a month during which they divide the class into two, with two teachers, in a few hours. The class is a community, and the class is a relative. That's exactly the whole point, that you have to try to be flexible and give teachers the opportunity to provide adapted training. It's not as easy to stand as one teacher in front of 28 students and would provide 28 different customized training courses. Sometimes you have to be flexible. It's something quite different than the state council's trying to stick to us, namely that we want our own classes, special schools and A, B and C-grouping according to the level of the students. That is not the reality. The state council knows that very well. Then I think he'll stop arguing against a scare image he sails stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1232	There's nothing so inspiring and fun as to meet little children, because little children are inspired. They are teachable and teachable. They want to join, they want to be participants. The principle of adapted school training is statutory. All children want to learn, and all children should meet high expectations according to their level of school. One of the important steps taken by this government to get it done is to get more teachers into school – 4,000 more teachers. We're not satisfied with what we want to do. Early efforts will take place in a few days to be legalised in Stortinget, where all young people in 1–4. class shall receive more training in both reading and writing and numerical understanding. That means even more teachers. It is important to bet on and increase the teacher's density in school. Just to remind the opposition of it: in the last period, the number of teachers went down and not up. The arrow has turned around with this government, and we're going to continue with the job. It is also important that we have strengthened the counselling service in school. That you can get good advice on what you want to do, and what you have a great talent for, is incredibly important. So for educational choices. It is inspiring to meet young people who will choose, to try out tastes of work, to try out practical ways. This government has spent the entire period from day one on quality and school content. We've shown that through increased appropriations. We have shown it through amendments. We've shown it by focusing on quality in the training. The biggest challenge we have is the drop-out in high school. One-third of our students are dropping out. Some of the students lose the entourage they had when they started elementary school. We're doing a lot of this. This is the most serious job we do every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1247	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3165]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1255	The size then goes to voting in case No. 2-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1262	During the debate, Mr. Carl I. Hagen, Member of the Presidency, presented a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the aid does not consider that it would raise objections to the use of group support by large groups to cover the costs of legal policy advertising. However, the size will not take account of this type of expenditure when the size of the group aid is addressed and decided.» This proposal and the Presidency's recommendation will be replaced by a vote. The Presidency had recommended:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1295	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1300	Then we'll take a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1315	Eleven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – Proposal No. 1-4, by Mr Carl I. Hagen on behalf of Mr Inge Wohnning, Mr T. Lånke and himself – proposal No. 5, from President Carl I. Hagen on behalf of Inge Wohnung and herself – proposal No. 6, from President Carl I. Hagen on behalf of Ola T. Lånke and himself – propose 7, 8 and 10 from President Carl I. Hagen – proposal No. 11 and 12, by Mr Inge Wohnung, Member of the Presidency The President takes note of the fact that proposal No. 9, by President Carl I. Hagen, is not taken up because this is covered by proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox There will be a vote on the proposal No. 7, 8 and 10, from President Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1375	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 11 and 12, from the member of the Presidency, Inge Wohnung.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1408	There will be a vote on proposal No. 6, from the members of the Presidency Carl I. Hagen and Ola T. Lånke. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1427	There will be a vote on proposal No. 5, from the members of the Presidency Carl I. Hagen and Inge Wage. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1447	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-4, from the members of the Presidency Carl I. Hagen, Inge Wohnning and Ola T. Lånke.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1577	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2, sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes to ensure that high-level students can take upper secondary education courses, including upper secondary education, without losing their right to further secondary education or otherwise weakening their position in the education system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1610	You'll find an alternative between the option and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes in order to ensure the real right to adapted training for students who are more practical than theoretical, by providing room for different practical arrangements in primary schools as well.’ The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:75 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-27.ana.ud2395e1647	This means that today's maps are ready. Is there any person who wishes to speak under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
