ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Debate, Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! As I have said several times before, all interest rate measures should have been stopped a long time ago. They have done nothing but evil. Or does anyone still have the nerve to say that someone would be fine for them now?
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u5	Mr Turtiainen, I would like to point out to you the firm and dignified behaviour of the Member of Parliament and the fact that there is no insult to another person here. Your speech contained elements which were questionable to the authority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u6	Madam President! It is excellent that, although Parliament had to suspend its winter break, this matter is now here in the Chamber and we are allowed to be here and to work hard and finish this great thing, namely that the private sector, health care, is now able to make rapid payments to give these vaccinations of the right size. 11.3.21 In this room during Question Time, I publicly wondered about this slow rate of vaccination. You will remember then that, in response, we received that we should do as quickly as we can. At that time there were nearly 400,000 vaccines in storage. On average, vaccines were given at this rate of 12,000 a day, and I asked why health care was not included. So it's been almost a year. Now we are here, and now Minister Kiuru, when he brought this proposal, was excited that we would finally get occupational health care involved in this. Well, occupational health care has been ready all along, as it were, one button away, if anyone asks.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u13	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u14	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen made a very one-sided and recalling speech. However, it must now be said to Mr Laukkanen that although there was some disagreement on the left with your dates, it was a year ago when occupational health care had the opportunity to go on vaccination — a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u21	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u22	Madam President! We are now considering a government proposal for a law on the modification of Section 8 of Chapter 3 of the Health Insurance Act. The proposal proposes to amend the Health Insurance Act to increase the reimbursement rate for vaccination against covid disease from the current EUR 10 to EUR 16. In practice, this applies to occupational health care, and it is perhaps in the way that the EUR 6 withdrawal is made. I expected Secretary Kiuru to be here. However, on the basis of public feedback, I would like to raise the following point: The vaccination of children between the ages of 5 and 11 has now begun, and I believe that media coverage of vaccination of children has been unclear that it was only in these late news that it was entirely voluntary. There must be regional differences here as to how the provincial newspapers have reported these. I do not think that this voluntary approach has been sufficiently highlighted in the news. On the THL website there are instructions — I picked out three points here: Corrosion vaccinations are also offered to all children between the ages of 5 and 11. Children between 5 and 11 years of age are offered a Biontech-Pfizer Comernaty 10 mg per dose vaccine with a conditional marketing authorisation for vaccination of children between 5 and 11 years of age. This marketing authorisation has been issued by the European Commission on 25.11. And then the thing I want to raise here — not about this increase, but with such a wish — is that who decides on the vaccination of the child. The website of the THL explains: ‘In Finland, a minor can decide on vaccination if a vaccine-giving healthcare professional assesses that a decision on vaccination is likely to be made on the In the case of most children aged between 5 and 11 years, the consent of the guardians is required.’ Mr President! Some of their parents are concerned that no one will inoculate their child without their consent. I did not find such clear guidance from THL myself, but it would be good if the whole of Finland were to do the same. I think there are some ambiguities and they should be clarified. I'm quoting two Yle news reports. ‘It can lead to external pressure, as this age group’s elders must also decide whether they ‘The independent decision on For the youngest children, the consent of the The second report is as follows:‘The number of Some municipalities require written consent from the guardians, some do not.’ Since primary school also requires permission from parents for school photos, I believe that it is necessary for the government or the THL to clarify the situation and require consent from all guardians of children under the age of 12, i.e. consent from them, and at the same time to inform them of the benefits and potential adverse effects that have occurred in Finland, including those of 12 to 17 years of age. This now is such a wish, and it would have been great that the minister would have been there to hear,
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u25	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u26	Mr President! We are now deciding to increase the compensation from EUR 10 to EUR 16 for vaccinations for occupational health care. It must be noted here that, according to experts, this does not necessarily compensate for all the costs and losses that this entails for occupational health care. It would be closer if the compensation were equal to EUR 25 per vaccination procedure. One of the arguments put forward here on the left is that it would have been possible from March last year to carry out these vaccinations on the health care side, and that is the case. The law has already been in force at that time, but if it has not been possible to obtain compensation at all, it has obviously not made any sense, or even any sense, for these people in occupational health care to do so, because the companies still operate on the principle that they must receive compensation for the cost. Otherwise they will not be able to function, at least in a profitable way. It must also be borne in mind that the public sector has always been fully compensated for these measures. The second point is also compulsoryity. At no time have municipalities been obliged to deal with matters in such a way as to involve the occupational health sector. Last year's side 16.12. the government adopted a regulation which slightly increased this obligation — it must always be clarified whether it would be necessary to include occupational health care — but it still does not provide sufficient responsibility for municipalities to be obliged to include occupational health care. In other words, there is still a kind of gap in this legislation in this respect. Now we need to remember that so far occupational health care, last year's side, has vaccinated some 60,000 Finns, and according to some estimates this new law will vaccinate some 237,000 Finns. When you remember that there are 1.9 million people in occupational health care, the figure is still too low. Of course, some of them have been vaccinated on the public health side, but we still have to consider whether we should go back to this law and possibly increase this compensation and make it more binding so that the municipalities really do. Mr President! Overall, I am very disappointed at the way in which the government has coordinated these vaccinations and interest rates in general. On Monday, schools start in several municipalities, and we continue to see only the views of separate ministers on the subject, but the government's position on what these corona restrictions are — whether children can return to schools, whether gyms are
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u27	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u28	Mr President! This increase in the reimbursement of vaccination in private occupational health care from EUR 10 to EUR 16 is justified and necessary. That is what the coalition has already proposed, and it is good that it is finally done. We must take all measures to increase the vaccination coverage in Finland, and this is one of the essential elements in that. It is now important that municipalities also take up this issue and occupational health care is actively involved. We need an increase in vaccination coverage, but we also need a reduction in the pressure on public health care in other respects, because there is a great deal of care debt there and people are unable to get treatment without haste, and emergency services are also congested in urgent care. We must make maximum use of the private health care, the skills and the staff available there. It is important that we now also consider these quarantines, because we are currently in a labour shortage in different sectors of society. Fortunately, when the vaccination coverage has increased acclaimably and the picture of the disease is mild, it is also necessary to assess what is the sufficient quarantine period and, if it can be shortened, of course it must be done. That's the good thing about vaccines that they reduce infectivity. I would like to emphasise that they reduce infectivity: clearly fewer people vaccinated are infecting than non-vaccinated people, which means that vaccination plays an important role in preventing the spread of the epidemic. Vaccines protect against serious disease, which is also visible in our hospitals so that those vaccinated have fewer of these serious forms of disease. Of course, why patients are in hospitals is due to the fact that there is so much disease in the population that, of course, there are also vaccinees. But the picture of the disease is clearly less pronounced. I would also like to highlight the situation of children: the situation is unclear with regard to vaccinations in children under 12 years of age when there is no recommendation for vaccination. It's just that it's possible. I agree with Mr Mäenpää on this point that clarification is needed in this situation because the situation is unclear. In the case of children under 12 years of age, vaccination coverage may not be as high as would be desirable, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u29	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u30	Madam President! Today, there is an amendment to the Health Insurance Act on compensation for interest relief. Vaccinations are now offered as the only option and answer to everything. For those who, however, fall ill, were vaccines or not, the advice is to stay at home and seek treatment only if the spirit does not pass. There are usually no guidelines for relieving symptoms. For my part, I went more widely to look for information on the treatment of corona disease shortly after I myself became ill with this disease. There is a lot of conflicting and wrong information about treatment options. Even after the pandemic began two years ago, the list of approved corona treatments is short, although several vaccines were introduced per year. Research and statistics are available for every departure. In the case of ivermectin, for example, the authorities do not recommend it, as there is insufficient evidence of its benefits. Either studies on the use of the medicinal product are ongoing or the sample is too small or not comparable. On the other hand, there is the experience of a large number of people, such as the United States and Peru, who are trying to show that the disease curve has fallen at the same time as the demand for its recipe exploded or the use of it was legalised. There are no comprehensive data on all the factors behind the loss of disease waves. Apparently, however, ivermectin is used very much in some places. In August, nearly 90,000 recipes were issued in the United States. Of course, I had also heard of how the FDA had warned against using this medicine. It was compared to a horse’s medicine. The warnings were based on the fact that people in the United States had started to acquire animal - oriented versions that were harmful to humans. Ivermectin is much more than a maligned horse worm medicine. In humans, it has been used for 25 years as a parasitic medicine and has experience of its use at a dose of 3.7 billion. A patented corona medicine developed in Finland has also taken this ivermectin as one of its active substances. According to information from Fimea, although covid-19 is not yet the official indication of ivermectin, it is possible to use it in Finland with a doctor’s prescription with a so-called off label. It may be prescribed for the treatment of corona if the treating physician considers it appropriate in agreement with the patient and assumes responsibility for the treatment. For my part, the doctor gave me a prescription for the medicine and I was very surprised to learn that the most severe corona symptoms disappeared very quickly. However, according to a number of experts, the benefits of ivermectin are generally not sufficiently proven. Therefore, I am not the right person to say to whom it is beneficial and to whom it is not available. However, I am grateful that there are doctors who are prepared to try out a wide range of proven ways of treating the symptoms of the disease itself. Mr President! Now that we are dealing with the amendment to the Health Insurance Act, I would like to point out that coronapandemics do not seem to stop by coercive vaccination with leaky vaccines. Identification and recognition of treatments would be vital.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u33	Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! This corona epidemic has proved to be so persistent and unpredictable that it is worth trying to avoid very firm positions on this issue. As we see today in relation to distance school, the views of experts on the necessary measures are also very contradictory. It must be admitted that vaccination has not worked as expected. We could not fully open up society at the time, after 80 per cent of Finns had received two vaccinations. This omicron transformation has, for its part, made the situation even more difficult. At the moment, we are waiting for a third peak for groups at risk, and no one knows how to proceed with this vaccination in order to achieve the desired result as far as possible. But that is what I said earlier about the fact that this vaccination has not worked perfectly or even in the desired way does not eliminate the undeniable benefits of vaccination. Vaccination means that we have fewer deaths from this disease, we have less serious illness, we have fewer patients in hospital with coronas and we have fewer patients in intensive care. In addition, as Mr Laiho said last time, we also have less infectivity in society thanks to those who have been vaccinated. Would it be better if we had not taken this vaccination? Although I warned against taking too certain positions, I am sure that the situation would not be better without this vaccination.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u40	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u41	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! When there is cause for commendation, praise will be given, and now it is part of the fact that occupational health care will be more closely and more widely involved and that they will also be compensated for the vaccination work carried out in occupational health care. Like a representative. Unfortunately, the public side has received full compensation, and it seems strange that this is only now that it is also intended to be addressed to occupational health care. So for quite a long time, although vaccination has been possible, it has not been encouraged. This is now the situation that needs to be corrected, and thank you for correcting it. All measures should be taken to facilitate vaccination. Here we have heard talk about vaccination of children and young people, vaccination of the elderly and many more. And, above all, I call for it to be easy when vaccination is voluntary. When these go hand in hand, we will eventually raise this vaccine coverage. I personally hope that the private side will also be involved in these vaccinations, because it is very likely that we will have a fourth vaccination, a fifth vaccination — or will this be the same type as the flu vaccination that is currently being carried out with some kind of confirmation? Then it is very natural for it to come here extensively. I was a little surprised by the left-wing parliamentarians, who, of course, were already leaving here when it seemed that occupational health care in their speeches almost deserved no compensation for the work they had done. I had to ask these left-wing representatives whether it would be right for occupational health care to pay a little bit to vaccinate the people. What was confusing was this left-wing attitude to what is being done well in that field once again. Mr President! I am also concerned that much is being done in our country at the moment, from the point of view of justice, illegal interest rate measures, illegal interest rate restrictions. Administrative rights have had to intervene in these illegal decisions, and now it seems to me little that the confusing and recent behaviour of Prime Minister Sanna Marin's government, the various guidelines and public debates are taking this in the direction of decisions being taken in the regions under small pressure, almost under pressure, and then, apparently, at an accelerating pace, illegal decisions are being taken. Administrative rights have had to reverse restrictions on, for example, physical exercise and gymnasiums. And now, of course, we have to ask ourselves what responsibility is when the law is broken and these things have to be addressed. There is now a need for leadership, clear rules, guidance on how to deal with these situations. Mr President! Unfortunately, making illegal decisions undermines confidence in decision-making. Timeliness and proportionality are beginning to suffer, and administrative rights have been interfered with. Administrative rights have therefore had to intervene in illegal decisions on gyms, and similar corrections have been made to sports, sports and restaurant and tourism, and now, of course, the last debate is that the government also has a desire to move our schoolchildren to distance education. I am pleased that this decision seems to be taken at municipal level, and at least the biggest cities have already clearly signalled that the disadvantages of distance learning outweigh the benefits that can be gained from it. And I would also like to thank the city centre for your strong defence of local education, because it is an important thing, however, that children and young people can go to school and get their daily bread there, but also help and support for different situations. The damage caused by that period of distance teaching is still being repaired and for a very long time to come. Mr President! When it is time to thank — today it comes from this that occupational health care receives the reward it deserves for the work it does.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u43	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u44	Madam President! Sometimes it is so simple to deal with these things that when you ask, things get moving. When Minister Kiuru has spoken here about this necessity of vaccination and has asked for a more voluntary approach, it was not long before retired nurses and doctors showed up to help and help — although bureaucracy has brought its own problems to it. But this only tells of this people that there is a spirit of free spirit, that is, the spirit of the Winter War, in which we stand together on the front and take care of things. It is true that occasional occupational health services have already given these vaccinations last March, but when there was no obligation, no compensation, no guidance, it was very limited. And now, if Minister Kiuru introduced this law and said in his presentation that it is a good thing that we now have occupational health care to do this, then something has been done differently on this journey, as the Minister says here in his presentation. If things were the way Mr Saramo suggested that occupational health care has been involved since March, then why should the Minister make it a matter of pleasure that occupational health care is finally fully involved? Mr President! However, it is a common pleasure that the rate of vaccination is now significantly improved and that this nation’s protection against the corona will then be improved and its infectivity reduced. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u45	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u46	Madam President! A lot of good speeches have been made here in connection with the government's proposal to increase the level of compensation for occupational health care from EUR 10 to EUR 16 in this vaccination programme. I would particularly like to draw attention now to the speeches made by the members of the Assembly, even the contradictions in their speeches, but more to the tone of them. First of all, when Mrs Heinonen said that thanks should be given when there is a place of thanks, I would also say in the same way that thanks should be given when there is a place of thanks, and in particular I would like to thank Mrs Zyskowicz. It was heavy, it was thought out, and its basic content and wisdom were that the only thing we can be sure of is uncertainty about the corona. In fact, as he also said, in many situations there are conflicting views among experts, and we politicians are quite humbly forced to listen to this debate and then to draw conclusions partly also through experience. It is clear that throughout the world there has been a stumbling block with the corona. There have been difficulties in managing this situation. However, Finland has been successful and is one of the best success stories in the fight against corona, not only economically, but above all in health. This must now be registered here, despite the fact that these difficulties exist. Much has now been said about vaccinations, the need for vaccinations. Even in this respect, there are a number of doubts about their functioning, even about their health risks, but I suppose it is a global fact that, without these vaccinations, the corona would have caused absolutely terrible damage to all mankind, including Finland. Yes, the fact that we have vaccination as widely as it has been treated has been preventing a downward spiral caused by the disease, which would have been both healthy and social and economic. In this respect, this must be taken very seriously. Now for this performance itself. The idea here is that occupational health care should be more closely involved in vaccinations, and I would also like to draw a few attention to it, which was used by the members of the Assembly at that earlier stage by Mr Laiho and Mr Kauma. They are right in that, as the Minister has said here in his own presentation, that it is a question of achieving vaccination coverage. It should be extended and it is important that it be extended. Secondly, it is worth noting now that all over Finland, even before this increase in fees and subsidies, there have been enlightened employers who have participated in these and have taken advantage of occupational health care, which has made it possible to widen the rate reduction. It's important to consider. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to: Laiho that Kauma pointed it out — that the municipalities should now seize this offer, which has come, and specifically seek to exploit and act through occupational health care. I would like to put it this way that the municipalities do not have to do so. This is the main responsibility of the public sector, and so be it. So be it, because the public sector covers the whole of society, and that is where everyone's health is just as valuable. We have to ensure this universality in Finnish society — even though, of course, we leave risk groups to transport first — and this can only be done when the public sector bears its main responsibility. Yes, occupational health care is a complementary factor in this respect, a good, important, complementary factor. That's why this government proposal. But not so that traffic starts from the point of view that local authorities have to transfer vaccinations to occupational health care on the basis of their wishes. Mr Heinonen said that these vaccination programmes were not properly encouraged. He even said that government policy was confusing, pointing out that the policy of the Sanna Marin government was confusing: clear regulations and guidelines were lacking. Why? It seems that he did not listen to Mr Zyskowicz's speech because Mr Zyskowicz clearly stated that even the experts have conflicting views — even the experts have conflicting views. The political decision-maker has to listen to various experts, and in this kind of chaotic situation, partly chaotic, which only comes up against, there are also uncertainties among all decision-makers, including the highest decision-makers. The most important thing is the common big line that has, however, been adopted here. Together, we will do this — together — and support the government in these efforts. Someone pointed to the spirit of the winter war: this is what it is, this nation will kill this corona together.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u47	Congressman Niemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u48	Thank you, Madam President! I welcome this proposal that a person should receive a vaccine if he wishes, and a good one that includes occupational health care. But now I'm a little surprised. However, as chairman of the Pirkanmaa Police Department of Inland Finland, on 30 December 21, I have been informed from the Police Board that Poha does not include occupational health care in these vaccinations, but that the police must obtain these vaccinations through public health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u53	As Mr Turtiainen's motion for rejection has not been supported, it lapses.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-07-ps-162.u54	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament decide to suspend the 2021 Parliaments at the end of this session. The Council of Presidents also proposes that Parliament meet at the 2022 Parliaments at 12 noon on Tuesday 1.2.2022, when the 2021 Parliaments end.
