ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 38/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, represented by Mr Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u2	Mr President! I present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The government proposal proposes to increase the reimbursement rate for health insurance for vaccination against covid-19 from the current EUR 10 to EUR 16. [Parliament : Finally! ] Replacement of the vaccination measure for the Covid-19 vaccine from health insurance health care insurance provides an alternative to vaccination in public health care. In practice, the reimbursement of the vaccination measure only applies to corona vaccines provided in private occupational health care, as corona vaccines are not available to the public at least for the time being from private health service providers. According to the Government Decree on voluntary covid-19 vaccinations, occupational health care within the meaning of the Health Care Act is entitled to participate in the implementation of covid-19 vaccinations in accordance with Article 49 of the Act on communicable diseases and the municipality must examine the possibility for occupational health service providers operating in its territory to participate in the implementation of covid-19 vaccinations where this is necessary to ensure the prompt provision of vaccinations. The use of occupational health care in vaccination requires an agreement between the municipality and the employer and occupational health care. The committee notes that, on the basis of expert advice, it is challenging to set a level of compensation corresponding to the actual cost of the vaccination measure. The cost of the vaccination measure may vary considerably depending on the costs to be included in the measure and whether vaccination takes place, e.g. by appointment or by mass vaccination. The committee considers the compensation of EUR 16 now proposed to be reasonable, taking into account the varying cost estimates presented in the opinions received by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u3	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u5	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u6	Your Honour, Madam Speaker! It is good that this proposal has finally been brought before Parliament. Of course, this could have been done before. This is what we have been putting forward about the meeting last spring, when occupational health care could have been prepared and done in good time, but thank you for bringing this matter under Parliament's control and for involving occupational health care in the management of this whole vaccination package. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Salmon, presented a good and thorough report which was unanimously produced from the committee, and also the vice-chairman of the committee, Mr Laiho, went through this situation. We have to hope that this will be smooth and easy in terms of bureaucracy. However, as stated in this report, the use of occupational health care in vaccination requires an agreement between the municipality and the employer and occupational health care, and it is hoped that these agreements will also work smoothly with larger companies operating in several different locations, so that, of course, these vaccinations will be quantitatively more. This reasonable level: is it EUR 16? Let us hope that this progress can be made, because now, Mr President, it is important that we have all the resources available to us in this vaccination. The public side, of course, now occupational health care, but, as the vice-chairman of the committee, Mr Laiho, pointed out, the private side would also be essential in this future — or the pharmacies that we have also proposed in relation to testing and vaccination in this fight against corona. Vaccination should also be made easy: more drive-in vaccinations or walk-in vaccinations and make them work smoothly. We are currently facing major challenges, especially in rural areas, with these vaccinations. Trips are excessively long and participation in vaccination is difficult. So I hope that this vaccination will be made easy by all means. This very recent news has also been about these vaccinations of children, which, quite rightly, require the consent of all parents, but it seems to me that it is a little bureaucratic that children cannot have these so-called mass vaccinations, like larger schoolchildren, when they need to be accompanied by a parent. Of course, then you could think of some smoother way of getting children who otherwise are rapidly spreading the corona, more quickly vaccinated. President! This proposal is a good one, and it is great that this can be achieved unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u7	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u8	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the President and the Council of Presidents for having taken this matter before us as a matter of urgency, even though it was intended that it would have only been in February. I think this is a very important issue, although it may sound small that we are now increasing the health care allowance from EUR 10 to EUR 16. On the basis of a number of things to be heard, this compensation is not entirely complete either, but perhaps it should have been closer to EUR 25, but hopefully we will now be able to get more occupational health care in this regard. After all, over the past year, some 60,000 people were vaccinated at work, and it has now been estimated that over 200,000 people will be vaccinated with this law, depending of course on how this is going. But if you think that there are 1.9 million Finns on the health care side, then the coverage is still quite small, even considering that some have applied for vaccination on the public health side — in fact, most of them certainly have. But one thing that also affects this is the way municipalities use this occupational health care, and on the 16th of last year's side. the adoption of a regulation imposing a slightly greater obligation on municipalities to use occupational health care in vaccinations. However, we wanted to add an additional sentence to the committee today, which states that it stresses the importance of using occupational health care to increase vaccination coverage. With this, we also want to send out a message that we hope that the municipalities will cooperate — and that always requires the conclusion of an agreement. This law amounts to approximately EUR 3.8 million in budgetary money, and this is valid until 30 June. We are also a little critical of this validity in that committee: we think it would have been a good idea to put it into effect by the end of the year, but it is assumed that we will have to return to these questions of validity later, and it may also be that these questions of the size of the compensation will have to be taken into account. Mr President! I think that this law is very important and I hope that the Finns will go to these vaccinations and that they will also be able to speed up the flow of vaccinations through this occupational health care. And, just as some colleagues have said here, pharmacies should, in future, also be involved in these vaccination measures, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u9	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u10	Madam President! Today I happen to have passed the vaccination point on Jätkäsaari in Helsinki, and there was a long line on the street — people were going for corona vaccines. Science has given us the means to combat the plague and prevent the damage caused by it. We have not entirely been able to avoid damage, but it is important that, as decision-makers, we continue to do what we can to protect people's lives and health. Studies show that corona vaccines provide quite effective protection against severe corona disease and also prevent transmission and reduce infectivity. The aim of this government proposal is to contribute to the promotion of vaccinations as the use of occupational health care in vaccinations would increase. There has been a shortage of vaccines in some places for municipal vaccinations, as has already been well mentioned here. It was a good thing that we managed to deal with this proposal quickly and fluently in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the committee, in its unanimous report, considers the government's proposal to be justified. It is easy to agree with this — the proposal is good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u11	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u12	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing that Parliament was convened to discuss this proposal in order to speed up vaccination and, hopefully, to involve occupational health care as widely and comprehensively as possible. And it is indeed desirable that the municipalities should now take this up and conclude these agreements with health care. This suspension of the sitting caused wild rumours to spread in the social media about what would be the reason for this convening of Parliament — at least I received these messages myself — but I am sure the public has now found out. Unfortunately, there is quite a lot of disinformation around this corona disease and corona vaccinations. But the President is right that this could have been better anticipated, and it would certainly have been wise to bring this proposal earlier. We could have handled it before Christmas if we had received the motion. It is a pity that occupational health care has been so slowly involved in these interest rate measures, and it still takes time in many places to make it available — in the same way that these home tests have been introduced in Finland quite late, for example in Germany they have been very widely used for a year. At present, citizens are in an unfortunately unequal position with regard to vaccination, how they get vaccinated. I am grateful that I personally received the third vaccine in this kind of walk-in vaccination, and at the same time had the opportunity to follow how it was done. And I must say that compassion was on the side of those very old people who leaned on the cane for an hour and a half to stand in line and wait for that vaccination. In some places faster and even slower can be achieved, so that even fainted people have been forced from these lines of vaccination to take away. I would therefore consider it very important that this vaccination should be made smoother and, in that sense, the inclusion of occupational health care will also dismantle these general queues. I also think it is important that we get rid of this local dependence. At the moment, vaccinations are being given to those who work in the area or have a free-time residence, but I think it would be a good idea to have flexible access to vaccinations.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u13	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u14	Madam President! It is a good thing that this legislation has, in a way, been brought to our attention during the part-session, and now we will be able to take decisions on this during this week. The fact that occupational health care is more closely involved in this vaccination and this medical allowance is now being increased from EUR 10 to EUR 16 is certainly likely to increase the vaccination coverage, even if it makes it easier for us to get vaccinated, and at the same time improves the pressure on our health care in other respects, as occupational health care is better able to handle this and give them to us citizens. This is a good thing. To the speculation of what is going on here, of why it is only now and could have been before, I would say that this whole picture of the disease and the whole corona and the related legislation and its preventive measures, the treatment of the disease and all are quite new things, and that is why this can be done, in a way, endlessly, that what should have come at any time. The main thing is that this legislation is here now and that decisions can now be taken. My own experience, at least from my region of South Ostrobothnia and from that region of the Kuusiokunta, is that, compared to one year ago, when these vaccinations began to be given and, in a way, there was a small race for who can get time for vaccination among the first and when to start vaccination against the younger population and the healthier population, and when it comes to this day, it is easier to get into vaccination, and that is a good thing. There are electronic appointment booking services that you can use, and you get that time pretty quickly. This is good, and you might want to take that vaccine. I strongly recommend it to all citizens, because now there seems to be some experience that when the disease spreads it will be very mildly ill because these vaccines have come to help it. It is very regrettable that there is a lot of this disinformation in relation to vaccinations. Conspiracy theories are on the social media side, and there are a lot of contacts that we have. Trust the official experts, trust what the experts say. At least we legislators will make our decisions on the basis of what the experts tell us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u15	Congressman Schoolman.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u16	Mr President! This is a good draft law, and that is why, of course, it went through it unanimously in committee. It must be said, however, that this does not necessarily improve the situation if the municipalities do not take this seriously and involve health at work in the distribution of vaccinations, because occupational health cannot receive vaccinations as if directly as a quota, but occupational health will receive them through the municipality, and if the municipality does not give them, then this law and increasing this compensation will not do anything. Yes, now look strongly at the municipalities, that if this doesn’t still start playing, then it’s the problem there. I appeal to all the municipalities to include occupational health in this, and I hope that, if there are parliamentarians here who are in decision-making positions in the municipalities themselves, they too will contribute to this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u17	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u18	Mr President! Better late than not then, there is a saying, and although this is the first day of the year, it must be said in itself that better late than not then. Indeed, this draft law before us raises the reimbursement of health insurance for vaccination from the current EUR 10 to EUR 16, and in that sense it is good, because different measures are needed, but, as Mrs Schoolman said just now, responsibility and action are also in the municipalities. We as municipal decision-makers, some of this hall, the media and also the citizens can then demand it when we know that this law is in force and that compensation has been increased, that the municipalities, together with occupational health care, also undertake these vaccinations. Indeed, an increase in the rate of compensation is intended to encourage occupational health service providers to provide more covid-19 vaccinations, which of course facilitates access to vaccination for insured persons covered by occupational health care. Many measures are now needed to protect the interest rate. Safety intervals, masks and good hand hygiene are still necessary, but, especially if you think about the unvaccinated and at risk, all the incentives to get the vaccine and it is as easy as possible are important. In that sense, to promote vaccination coverage, occupational health care also has its own meaning. Mr President! It is increasingly apparent that people with corona disease who have no corona vaccines at all are burdened by the limited capacity of intensive care at national level. Similarly, many at risk in their own immediate circle, who have taken two or three vaccines, survive without intensive care, some even without medical care. In that sense, we decision-makers are responsible, especially for the intensive care burdened with it, and any measures which increase vaccine coverage and therefore also protect that capacity for intensive care, and which will also enable all the measures planned, both urgent and unurgent, to be taken, are welcome. Let us hope that these agreements are now being concluded by the municipalities, and this will also help to speed up these measures. At the same time, public resources will also be released.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u19	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u20	Madam President! This proposal is well-founded, and it is great if it can be adopted and quickly, with the support of the opposition, on such a broad scale. As has been shown in these speeches, this will certainly lengthen from that summer until the end of the year, but it will be discussed later. Mr President! I just want to say that, when we came from those provinces to these parliaments, even if Parliament did not meet in January as it is now on Friday, then the government would send a message and say hello to the government, that when no one knows at the moment what the place is open and what is not and on what basis, the government would take a position on this issue as far as possible in January and find out how these confused constraints can be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u21	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u22	Madam President! This is an excellent proposal by the government and it is very welcome to support this. The background is, of course, an extension of this vaccine coverage so that more and more of us get vaccines and more easily. It has been said here that vaccination is easier and that our society too will remain on wheels and our health care will not be so heavily burdened. This proposal improves the conditions for private health and occupational health care to provide vaccines by increasing health insurance from 10 to 16 euros. This is a fixed period, but it has been considered that this will probably continue after the end of June, and indeed would be in force retroactively at 1.1. That's a good thing. Indeed, good cooperation must be found here to ensure that the bureaucracy is light and that the agreements between the municipality and the employer and occupational health care are quickly activated and that vaccination activities are also working quickly. We have a number of people already waiting in line for these vaccines. There has also been reference to the fact that the involvement of a private party, including pharmacies, in these vaccination patterns would be a good thing. Mr President! Let me add that the previous decision at the Christmas break to reduce VAT on home tests was a good one. It is good to hear that trade with its various operating chains and the various retail chains also say that the benefits of this tax reduction go directly to the consumer, which means that we will also get home tests for this. Mr President! It is likely that this plague will pass through our nation at some point. All measures to make it easier to suffer or discover are in order, and the government has done an excellent job in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u23	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u24	Mr President! Of course, the aim of this proposal is clear, that is, to speed up vaccinations. We still have unfortunate differences between municipalities and regions, and this is one good way to do so. Of course, occupational health care is important, and this is where private occupational health care is encouraged. This proposal will therefore increase the compensation from EUR 10 to EUR 16. As has been said here, the actual costs, of course, may vary depending on how vaccinations are carried out. In any case, it is now extremely important to increase vaccine coverage and also the timeliness of vaccinations from all sides. This is one good and important way. Of course, it is also important that there are not only vaccinees but also vaccinees on the public as well as on the private side. Unfortunately, as the number of infections increases, there is also a risk for health care staff, which can also lead to a shortage of people. It is therefore also good that the qualifications of the vaccineers — i.e. those who have the right and know-how to give the vaccine — are extended. Of course, the starting point and the prerequisite for vaccination must continue to be that professionals have adequate medical skills and appropriate vaccination training. President! I thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for a good report. The proposal is very much to be welcomed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u25	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u26	Mr President! It is essential that occupational health care is now effectively involved in the administration of corona vaccines. This is particularly necessary because there has been a shortage of vaccinees in some cases organised by municipalities. Increasing the reimbursement of the Korona vaccine speeds up the vaccination process. A higher level of substitution is likely to contribute to the coverage of vaccinations. We must now make rapid progress on this issue, and that is why it was really necessary to convene a Parliament. This decision could not have been delayed until February; it must be taken immediately. Thank you to the government for giving us a quick presentation, and of course the President of Parliament has had a great responsibility when he has quickly called Parliament to decide on this matter. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is also necessary as it specifies the retroactive application of the law from the beginning of this year. This will clarify the situation in the vaccination field.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u27	Congressman Kettunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u28	Honorable Madam Speaker! As has been the case here with the good speeches and the fact that the proposal is good and worthy of support, I can also agree with and thank the chairman of the committee and the committee as a whole for the fact that the report is unanimous. But, Madam President, when, with this debate, Mr Heinonen pointed out that these vaccinations in rural areas are not working at the moment, the fact that we in Kainuu Kainuu have worked. Good decision - making has been made there that, when Kainuu is eight municipalities, vaccinations are performed in each municipality. There are both these drive-in test points and the fact that you can go and get a vaccination without an appointment. I would also like to remind you that these vaccines are necessary and that these vaccines are being taken. But I would like to remind you that when going to these regional elections, I would like to see that decision-making, politics, is that in every municipality there is a welfare point, a certain status, from which then also in the future these vaccines can be taken, if such pandemics happen to come. It is important that these local services are secured. I would like to thank Mr Aittakummu for his excellent contributions, particularly that, as Mr Aittakumpu said, science provides the means to combat epidemics of this kind. It is good for us decision-makers to always remember in decision-making that we rely on experts, trust in science, and forget about those particular social media conspiracy theories of all the world, wild rumours, and the talk of online prophets of all the world. The decision-making process is always based on facts, science and expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u29	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u30	Madam President! It is interesting, in itself, that raising the health insurance rate from EUR 10 to EUR 16 in this case will trigger such a lively debate. I would like to say that there are 20 or so speeches here. It is understandable, of course, when many have come from a distance as well as others, that they want to make a contribution in this regard. Colleagues have spoken well here. Well, what am I going to say here? Four things: The first is that it has been said in some speeches that it is a good thing that this has now been achieved. This must mean this increase in compensation, but this law was brought about here already in February: the government's proposal 13/21 introduced this occupational health care into the scope of vaccinations from 1 March 1, but with an increase of EUR 10. And as Mr Kauma has said here, the balance of last year was then left with the approximately 60,000 health care vaccines, but now we hope and believe that this increase here will bring more enthusiasm for this. Well, the second point, which of course relates to this very EUR 16, is that when we discussed it — note. In the light of 15 expert opinions last February — this issue was presented to us with a very mixed view of what would be a fair level of compensation. The lowest performances from THL and municipal employers were EUR 5 and the highest ones from medium — not these largest but medium — medical centres were about EUR 30. Just as has been said here, of course, this depends very much on how it is arranged. Such a large mass vaccination, where you are in line, will certainly achieve a cost of less than EUR 10, but if it is done with an appointment and if it is to be helped by an elderly person or a child, then, of course, it will take more time, so now we have an agreement of EUR 16, and we hope and believe that this will now go a little further. This in itself is interesting in legal terms because occupational health care is not financed by health insurance health insurance, but by health insurance through income insurance, which gives the employer an overall compensation for the employer's organisation of occupational health care, and here we are now taking advantage of occupational health care as an organisation in such a way that it receives performance-specific medical benefits which it normally does not receive from its activities. But as others have said here, we hope that this will now speed up vaccinations and increase immunity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u31	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u32	Mr President! Surely each of us hopes that this pandemic will be over by now, and the most important thing for that is, of course, that every one of us who is able to get a fingernail to take the vaccinations that are available. As colleagues have said here, vaccinations provide strong protection against this serious form of disease and also reduce the likelihood of transmission and transmission. So we use the vaccine to protect ourselves as well as each other. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of disinformation around the interest rate and these vaccinations. It is quite human that people have concerns and uncertainties, but I find it very irresponsible that these fears are fomented by the distortion of truth. In this connection, I would like to thank every health professional who has fought the corona in the front line or, for example, jumped to help speed up vaccinations. I have been really impressed by the commitment that has been made and set up, for example, in my hometown of Espoo, for the treatment and vaccination of corona. We're in good hands. And it is very good if we now have more and more occupational health care to help with this work, which is what this bill aims to achieve. This pandemic has tangiblely shown how dependent we are on one another: we individual people for each other’s responsibility and care, and also us world countries. Regarding vaccinations, it is important to recognise that the pandemic will not be over in Finland until it is over elsewhere, and it is therefore important that vaccination coverage is raised in every country in the world. Mr President! Like Mr Ovaska, I would like to send my regards to the government. The restrictions imposed on the fight against corruption are again seriously testing the cultural and event sector, which has already been stretched to the limit during this epidemic. As a result of these restrictions, there is now an urgent need to prepare support and compensation for those whose jobs and livelihoods have again ended like a wall. We cannot afford to fail to keep these sectors and the people who work there on their feet if and when we want culture to flourish in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u33	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u34	Madam President! I wish the President of Parliament and all those working in Parliament and all Finns a happy new year and a healthier new year. It is very good that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has adopted a unanimous report and that the President has called for Parliament to adopt this important piece of legislation. This law well describes the fact that when the situation changes very quickly on the health front, we must have the ability to react to this situation, and now we have reacted. That is a very positive thing. However, when future pandemics and other health problems of the kind come — we cannot avoid them, after all, scientists have for a long time warned that there are becoming more serious viruses, and even though bacteria are being controlled, as with antibiotics, there has already been a negative development of resistant strains of bacteria, which are no longer effective with antibiotics — I would like to see this learned now and developed into Finnish health care so that both the public health sector and the private side of health care, in this case health care, can play much better together. There is a huge amount of expertise and professionals and facilities and tools in both organisations so that they can respond to these quick situations. It can't be lobby thinking, but when it's urgent and urgent, all Finns have to work — as has been done now. In this context, on my own side, I would like to thank the healthcare staff. They have done an excellent job, even sacrificing and risking their own health, to ensure that Finnish people who have received this serious disease will then receive appropriate treatment. Finally, Mr President, I hope that all Finns will now take the corona peak. I myself have already received three of them, and I am very happy that society is able to provide and safeguard the health of the signatory in the best possible way. I hope that everyone will take that shot, because we must remember that if you get sick and then go to a hospital, then when you get to a hospital, the person will then take the important ICU place, for example, to which it would be necessary for your life because of another illness or injury. So unselfish must each one of us be to consider his neighbor. It is the least we can do for a neighbor. — — — — Happy New Year to you all!
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u35	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u36	Madam President! The debate on the referral to this motion took place last week in this Chamber, and the opposition expressed its surprise and concern that the government did not want to rush this motion but had only planned this debate for February. We protested and hoped for a more urgent debate, and with great pleasure and in honor of Minister Sarkkinen, he also agreed with this concern and expressed the view that he was well suited to the urgent procedure. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore took action. Thank you to the committee for that, and thank you also for the unanimous report so that this important issue can be speeded up. Mr Lindén has also paid a great deal of attention to the history of this solution and has pointed out that this health care vaccine allowance has been provided for a year ago. Well, yes, it is, but in my opinion, this inclusion of occupational health care in the order laid down then a year ago has been apparent because it was set at too low a level of compensation and does not actually allow full participation in occupational health care. But now we're gonna fix it. In practice, the level of compensation is brought to such a level that even occupational health care can do so without suffering losses. Let us hope that this will speed up these vaccinations and vaccinations for all people. To refresh my memory, the public sector is actually fully compensated for the cost of vaccination, whatever the cost. I therefore also hope, for my part, that Parliament will accept a briskly increased price level for the vaccination provided by occupational health care. As Mr Hoskonen said there, I agree with the wish that as many people as possible should receive the vaccine. Let us hope that this solution will give us more impetus.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u37	Congressman Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank everyone for a very good debate today. That conversation on the 28th was a bit heavy, I'm sure. In this sitting, I have not really seen confrontation, but we have been able to deal with it in a very good way and in a different way. I would like to thank the government for bringing this proposal in on a timely basis, and indeed on this proposal. It is in itself a very technical nature, as has been mentioned here before, and EUR 10 will be increased to EUR 16, but it is of enormous importance, so thank you to the government for the proposal, and thank you also to the President for allowing us to deal with this issue during the sitting. Apologies to my colleagues! Here have come a few speeches about how has spread about this kind of disinformation in relation to what would be here in reading or when such sessions should have been. If I have understood correctly, then it is about — at least what I have received feedback — that one of my Instagram updates, or Instagram stories, in which I told you that I was in a hurry to go to Helsinki, was actually the subject of this kind of disinformation bombing. I have had the habit of updating very often when I go between Oulu and Helsinki, if there are interruptions or so on, very often update it, and then I was busy and was leaving and the President had interrupted the session, because this urgent motion needs to be received. It was not a question of having this message from the President at the same time that we are going, but that is how this message was misinterpreted in certain groups. It was bombed into different groups. Then we even started talking about hasty sittings and night sessions and all this. I have not spoken of this kind of hasty sitting or night sessions or anything like that, but this is pure disinformation. — You people who spread and edit words like this are themselves spreading fear, instigating people in such distress situations that some may really be distressing. I'd ask you to stop doing this. — In the past, when I have made quite normal updates, they have not been birded in the corona groups, but now, apparently, this time it has happened and it has been spread and this has happened. Madam President! Oh, yes, today's 4th. The day we're in session. I came here earlier because I had to have social media training for PS youth, and the next session is on the 7th, and the end. All parliamentary plenary sessions here are broadcast live from Parliament's website and Yle Areena, and if there is no broadcast, then that means that there will be no sitting here. — I wish you could stop all this kind of disinformation about this, people. Let me clarify what is going on today. Every single citizen can go to the Parliament's website and read what we actually deal with here every time. When you read here, you go to the front page of the Parliament to look at today's agenda, this proposal that we are now dealing with, then in its simplicity it is all about this — I am now reading on the Parliament's website — ‘It is proposed that the sickness insurance premium for the vaccination measure provided to protect against covid-19 disease should be charged from the current 10euro16. The aim of increasing the compensation rate is to encourage occupational health service providers to provide more covid-19 vaccinations, thus facilitating access to covid-19 vaccination for insured persons covered by occupational health care.’ In other words, there will be no changes to the corona pass, for example, there will be no changes, for example, to the fact that some people, even if forced to inoculate, or so on, will now be allowed or encouraged to do so on an even larger scale, when we have occupational health care in Finland, which would be able to arrange more of these vaccinations if people wanted to take them. That is what simplicity is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u40	Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u41	Mr President! Of course, it is worth learning from this process that Finland has now been against this pandemic and the corona virus. There are not very great desires for me to make these mistakes, but the most important thing about this kind of pandemic and virus is that all the measures are timely and quick, and all the incentives that can be made to get the vaccine coverage up quickly, maybe not quite have gone as the book says should have gone. Of course, the vaccine passport should have been introduced almost a year ago, and once the law is in place that occupational health care can handle these vaccinations, then this kind of 10 euros is too low. This EUR 16 is not very high either, but it is good that Parliament has now intervened and that this has been decided quickly. The most important lesson for the future, if, unfortunately, we have a pandemic in the future, to which Mr Hoskonen referred, is that we should be on the move quickly, both on the public health side and on the private side. There is no limit to who is allowed to do and when to do it. In the case of a life-threatening disease, it must be understood that the Constitution also obliges public authorities to contribute to the health of the population, and this already dictates quite a lot of what needs to be done. Personally, I see this as a rather big question of principle that it is now recognised that in the forthcoming regional elections and in the whole reform of social security, the public and private sides must go side by side all the time and cannot leave the way of thinking that one takes care of and, as it were, the other must not take care of. This, in my opinion, is the most important contribution today and this government proposal. Once again, when there are these barriers, who is allowed to do and what is allowed to do, of course, there must be a skilled person who does these vaccinations to ensure that there are no complications — some may get involved, anaphylactic shock is the worst that can result from it. But there were references to small towns and rural areas: Even when I went to take the third vaccine, for 20 minutes I warmed up my cell phone and the vaccine came in, and then I went home — without an appointment. I received a third vaccine, and at the same time I heard that when they wanted export companies to work quickly and well, the public sector had visited the companies to vaccinate the workers because they could quickly move the vaccination coverage forward and serve those people. It is this willingness to provide services, the fact that both the public and the private sectors serve people, that is the most important factor. I am pleased that some smaller cities, such as Iisalmi, have been so flexible.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u42	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u43	Mr President! I would just like to comment on Mr Lindén's statement that occupational health care has already been able to carry out this vaccination activity since last March. Of course that is the case, but there are a number of factors that affect whether the municipalities have done so. First of all, if the municipality itself receives full compensation when it manages it itself, then it has the motivation to do so itself. On the other hand, if there is not enough binding legislation to make use of occupational health care, it is another issue which will have an impact on this, especially if we consider this aspect of compensation. Nor is occupational health care motivated if they know that they will receive only minimal compensation in relation to the costs which they will incur. When talking about the private sector, however, they will have to pay all the costs in full. They cannot go to charity there, at least for a very long time, unless they receive full cost compensation. Indeed, this law came into force in March so that this can be done, and now, in December, this regulation came into force, which states explicitly that ‘it is necessary for the municipality to clarify the possibility for the providers of occupational healthservices in its territory to participate in the implementation of thecovid-19 vaccinations,in order to ensure that vaccinations are not delayed’. In other words, there are still if-words here, and this is still not binding enough. I myself, Mr President, at that committee reading, wonder whether this should be made even more binding. I have inquired about it, and if it is to be done this way, it should then be on the side of the infectious disease law there and not on the side of this law. The main responsibility for this, of course, lies with the government, which can also provide for this in more detail in the regulation. Mr President! I personally believe that we can now monitor the effects of this law and then, if necessary, return to whether the municipalities have made sufficient use of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u44	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u45	Madam President! I think it is a great thing that this matter is moving forward and unanimously — but I have asked for the floor now because, in that speech by both Mr Kopra and Mr Kauma, it was a small step towards polarising the assessment and vision that I myself had put forward. I do not see any ideological contradictions or problems here. We must remember that we started this vaccination from the oldest age groups, where coverage is still the highest: 94% of those over 80 years of age have received both vaccines, more and more, and already a couple of weeks ago more than half of those in that group had received three vaccines. Of course, the role of occupational health care in the context of a shortage of vaccines could not have been significant in any way, since we had to vaccinate these elderly people who are not in occupational health care first. We must remember that 1.9 million Finns are covered by occupational health care, but 3.6 million Finns are not. Well, there are 600,000 children under the age of 12. In other words, 3 million people are excluded from occupational health care for people over 12 years of age, and this priority and order was therefore right in the early stages. I would also like to stress, as I have said a few times here, that this is quite a legally interesting thing — a quite acceptable and positive thing — that we are now making up for occupational health care on an accrual basis when other funding for occupational health care comes in another way. It comes from employment income insurance and employers. Indeed, many employers themselves have already done precisely as Mr Eestilä, for example, said very well that he wanted this vaccine to be given to his employees, regardless of whether it was 10 or 16 — or whether it should have been 20, which was presented in the spring. We had a vote on this at the time, and it was 20 versus 10. Well, these are little nuances now on such an important issue, but I wanted to stress this again. This is also where the private consultant Nordic Healthcare Group (NHG) carried out an assessment of the cost of the vaccine performance of municipal activities. That's 12 euros. That's what's been told in this government presentation. Now the compensation is EUR 16. But, of course, these are all small sums of money compared to the economic costs of this interest rate, and in that sense I have no problems with accepting this 16, of course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u46	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u47	Mr President! Thank you, indeed, to the Council of Presidents for being on this issue today, and that is why I said that better late than not at the time, because compensation will come. Thank you, too, for this good-spirited debate. Although this may now be the end of Parliament's 21st, this and Friday's sitting, and then the new Parliaments will begin in February, I think it is good to end the Parliaments on this point on this unanimous basis of the StV report, which will be in the Parliament's opinion, and also on this good-spirited debate. In particular, I would like to say to Mr Tynkkys that I thank him for what he has just said. There is a need for such a common vision, which has been sought and hoped for for for less than two years now, and sometimes it is better and sometimes not so good.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u48	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-04-ps-161.u49	Mr President! I would also like to comment on Mr Lindén's speech that I am very pleased that the government and Mr Lindén and Parliament in general have now taken a positive position on the use of occupational health care in this regard. At least I cannot avoid thinking that, especially in the early part of the pandemic, the private sector was avoided if we remember, for example, the supply of masks from the Supply Security Centre, and also the fact that we are still not fully exploiting the capacity that could be used, for example, for pharmacies, where the tests could also be carried out at a lower price. So we still have a lot of work to do to get this whole society to act fully to get rid of this pandemic. I am pleased that we are now in this situation that this law is being taken forward unanimously, but I hope that we will also be able to make progress on these other issues that have just been mentioned. We'll get through this pandemic, we'll get through it together.
