ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, TyVM 19/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, chairman of the committee, Mr Pekonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u2	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the Unemployment Protection Act so that an entrepreneur is entitled to labour market support after full-time employment due to the covid-19 pandemic, even if the business activity has not been completely discontinued and the conditions laid down in the Unemployment Protection Act for the payment of unemployment benefit on the basis of the end of his employment in the company are not met. This provision would apply until 28 February 2022. The proposed amendment is essentially in line with the provisions in force in the Unemployment Protection Act of 8.4.2020 to 30.11.2021 on temporary labour market support for entrepreneurs. However, the income limit indicating the end of full-time employment will be adjusted by means of a pay coefficient to reflect the changes in other income limits laid down in the Unemployment Security Act. The pandemic is still active in Finland, and due to the spread of the virus in autumn 2021, infection increased significantly at the end of the year. In the current situation, the functions of society cannot be fully secured without a risk of infection, for example by means of a corona pass, but the various functions of society have been limited for a limited period of time. Restrictions make it difficult to engage in business activities, which makes it necessary to safeguard entrepreneurs' livelihoods during the period of restrictions. The government considers it justified to propose the payment of labour market support to entrepreneurs on the basis of a temporary provision only during the period of time limits related to the management of the pandemic, as it is difficult to anticipate the impact of the pandemic on society or the conduct of the business. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considers this proposal necessary and appropriate and advocates the adoption of a legislative proposal without amendment. The committee reiterates its concern in its report that short-term temporary provisions make it difficult for entrepreneurs to live and create administrative work for implementing employment and economic development offices and the Social Insurance Institution. The committee points out that, in view of the predictability and comprehensibility of the provisions, temporary changes should in future be avoided for very short periods of time. However, if this is to be done, follow-up decisions must be taken and communicated in good time. Mr President! This report contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u3	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u4	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Pekonen. It is important that the government responds to the position of entrepreneurs and strives to make it possible for us not to relive the sad times of the 1990s, but to contact companies, less banks, which is an excellent performance for this government. In his introduction, the president pointed out that the committee was not critical of this, but pointed out that short-term periods are indeed employment-rich for the TE Offices and Kela. And short - termness may not bring the kind of predictability that would be good for entrepreneurs. However, it must be borne in mind that these subsidies are precisely the result of an interruption in business. So that is when the entrepreneur ends his own work and his income. But if we put such a vague extension into this, it would easily become a corporate support. In other words, it is precisely the fact that, when the opportunities for employment arising from these pandemic sanctions are prevented by an entrepreneur, they are then paid for labour market support, and that is a clear-cut limit. It would then have to be considered whether it would be other types of business aid if it remained in the grey area. I understand that there is a great deal to be said about the fact that entrepreneurs would not raise it if they already had that business model. But it is another debate, which I am sure it will be good to have after the pandemic, in general, on the unemployment security of entrepreneurs in the SME sector and the related issues. I hope that this government will be able to catch up with that too. It is good that the government also reacted in a supportive manner to the position of entrepreneurs, so that after this pandemic we can continue to work better in business.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u5	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u6	Mr President! This government proposal is necessary, but I do disagree entirely with Mrs Myllykoski on this rule of validity. Mr Myllykoski said that this could become, as it were, such longer-term business aid — as if it were now the main concern. It is not a separate debate on this, but it is happening now, because entrepreneurs are in an emergency today. Those entrepreneurs who are in distress today may not even be able to survive until this pandemic is over. It is therefore very necessary to hold a debate on this period of validity. In my opinion, there has been a good objection to this, which is precisely why it is necessary to extend the period of validity.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u7	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u8	Madam President! The situation is now that entrepreneurs keep this country upright with their own backs. They guarantee loans, they use their savings to keep their businesses alive and people do not need to be put in a mileage factory. Dear government partners — I say ‘partners’ because we are jointly responsible today in the People of Finland — I marvel at the stubbornness And why? Yesterday in this Chamber and in the committee, the representatives of the government parties themselves acknowledged that this law is too short-term and that this should not be done. Unfortunately, however, in committee, we did not find a clear wording together to extend the duration. That's why we had to protest. I very much regret this political stubbornness because at the moment it treats entrepreneurs completely unfairly. The message that leaves now is that entrepreneurs, you're on the short shift, you're the short-time workers, you're the short-timers, instead of sending an encouraging message here that clearly gave entrepreneurs the impression that the government is awake, the whole parliament is awake that entrepreneurs are in distress, were before Christmas, are still and probably even longer. If this had been extended until the end of May, indeed, if, for some reason, the pandemic would now be relaxed in such a way that restrictions would be lifted as early as the end of February, no one would unnecessarily seek that support. Then there is the transition period, the start-up period, where the entrepreneur makes his bike spin. In a month we will be back here in the Chamber discussing this issue. [ Intermediate calls from the Centre Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u9	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u10	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen has just made an excellent speech on what is at stake here. I am sure that everyone in this House is of the opinion that this bill is necessary, but I too must ask very seriously now that we are at the end of January and that it expires at the end of February: does anyone in this Chamber think, first of all, that these restrictions on interest rates are immediately coming to an end, and even if they are going to end, that the economy would normally operate on 1 March, when we do not need the situation that these self-employed people have? Most of these are sole entrepreneurs — 18200 of them, by the way, who received this aid in October, i.e. a very large number. Surely no one here really thinks that since the beginning of March the economic situation is already such that they can normally continue their business activity which has now been interrupted by these restrictions on interest rates, in particular those on interest rates? It is self-evident that more time is needed for this to take place. And just as was said in the previous speech, there is a clear income limit here. If the business of its entrepreneur starts normally and the income limit is exceeded, then no aid will be paid. In other words, this aid only applies to the situation that, under these circumstances, the business activity does not benefit normally and the sole entrepreneur who, in practice, provides himself with a living allowance for his work so that he can support himself. That is why we now have this temporary arrangement, which must therefore be supported. But this time view is really special. Let us hope, of course, that we can get rid of the interest rate and these restrictions as quickly as possible, but let us also hope that this squirming system, since this has been going on for some time now — this last one, after all, ended in November — will now lead some of these self-employed people to lose their jobs permanently during this process. I would also like this extension to be approved and, in line with this protest, to be extended until the end of May.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u11	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u12	Mr President! In many areas, business has been severely restricted for almost two years. Also, the restrictive measures taken to prevent the spread of the corona virus have a significant impact on livelihood and entrepreneurship opportunities in several sectors. It is therefore justified that entrepreneurs should be supported as well as possible in this situation. Income opportunities must be secured by compensating for the costs of limiting business activities, while preventing bankruptcies. It is also important that the entrepreneur has the right to maximum unemployment benefit if his or her chances of profitable business activities have passed because of interest rate restrictions. The opposition has called for a longer term of validity here. There might also be grounds for this, but this is now being laid down for January-February, and the government will probably be awake if we need an extension. And we're here to adjust it if we need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u13	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u14	Madam President! As I said yesterday in the referral debate, this is the seventh time that the same bill has been tabled here. And again, we're just going a month and a half ahead. Originally, at the beginning of 2020, this started to be done in a 3-month period, and now it is done in two-month sections many times. Almost every time the Finns, together with the National Coalition Party, have objected to this protest and argued that it would go even further than it did for two or three months at a time. The Christian Democrats have now also taken part in the protest. This also brings costs to TE Offices. There's manual entries, this doesn't automatically go. This has a terrible employment impact even in TE Offices, that it will also cost you money. Then we will also talk, as has been thought and Mrs Myllykoski said, that we cannot do this for a vague period of time — even if we were to do it until the end of May, when the objection has been raised in order to have a little protection for the entrepreneur. That if the corona pandemic now subsides, then it may not give up for entrepreneurs when the debt money or savings are now pruning, and if the restrictions on this would be reduced, then it might not necessarily increase the customer flows there. There may be empty accounts and may also be unemployed a little later. That's why it would be good if you knew a little further. That is why I propose that our objection, in line with the National Coalition Party, the Basic Finns and the Christian Democrats, be accepted. In other words, I would like to suggest that this should now be continued until 31 May so that we do not have to be here again in March.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u15	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u16	Madam President! According to this proposal, the entrepreneur is in fact entitled to labour market support after full-time work due to the covid-19 pandemic. This is a necessary and important legislative proposal, but I cannot help but wonder why we are holding an extraordinary meeting at the end of January when this matter could have been dealt with already then in November and December. Firstly, the Coalition Party already voted in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities that this support would have been in place last year until the end of the year. After all, the government went to restrict these measures even before the end of the year. And when it comes to the income limit, you have to ask, especially now in the last few weeks, when entrepreneurs have really hard experiences in Northern Ostrobothnia, and have heard and encountered: is the government afraid that an entrepreneur will receive an extra euro because he is entitled to change the Unemployment Protection Act when he has no other income? I have listened to restaurant entrepreneurs who have been completely absent from work and have worked hours for their employees so that they could receive some income from work and have received some support from unemployment allowance. The layoffs that we are going to deal with in the next two or three months have not come quickly. It is indeed a good thing that this is being done now, but when Mr Kiviranta said just now that the government is awake, it is necessary to say hello to the entrepreneurs: that is what we all hope the government will be awake, but there are quite a few entrepreneurs who have gone for it, and that is what the opposition has done. But, of course, it is good to live in hope that the government is really awake to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u17	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u18	Mr President! The Coalition Party is in favour of this bill being valid until the end of May, as Mrs Lehto has said in her previous speech. The situation of entrepreneurs in sectors that have now been closed — in terms of the loss of customers due to interest rates for other reasons — is very distressing for many. The message that entrepreneurs are increasingly sending out is that the outlook for the future is beginning to fade. There has been hope so far, to believe that that better day will come, but now that view begins to weaken and despair strikes. This message is extremely worrying. So far in Finland, we have been able to work together to ensure that companies have not lost much because of the interest rate, but that various subsidies have been able to help entrepreneurs and businesses beyond these most difficult times. This small part is an important part of how to secure the livelihood of entrepreneurs even when business is in difficulty. Mr President! I would really like the government to see and the representatives of the government parties to see the plight and pain of the entrepreneurs here and to consider whether it would be possible to create a better view and a little faith and appreciation for the work done by the entrepreneurs by extending this proposal right now to the end of spring. This would allow for this unemployment benefit even when business activity is still ongoing. Mr President! I also hope that this week we will hear the news of what the government has prepared to support entrepreneurs and also to support the event and culture sector now that these sectors have again been subject to strong restrictions or even completely closed down. If you dare to look to the social media, for example, you can quickly see that the news is already in a hurry. I hope that the government has heard its message and will tell us as soon as possible in the next few days what subsidies are coming for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u19	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u20	Madam President! Indeed, I have been reading here about the social media for a few years how entrepreneurially hostile we have a government at the moment, and I must say that in dealing with this issue it is going to come up in some unfortunate way. We would actually have been able to make a unanimous report on this and be the whole parliament behind it, only if we were to continue this job for a few months at a time, but somehow the government wants to communicate, unfortunately, that the position of entrepreneurs is not so important to them, even though it is thought that even in the event sector, musicians, actors, fair builders are often light entrepreneurs, and then quite often so-called proponents of this government. Mr Laukkanen put forward an enormous amount of good things about the fact that the understanding, which is why this extension cannot be done, does cause wonder. But here it seems that the main concern is that if an entrepreneur, possibly a single entrepreneur, could abuse this system. It's true, but I'm sure there'll never be a case out of this gym that someone dishonest can't take advantage of. The government is not at all interested in how much social security, for example, is being misused, how many people there are in this country who are applying for social security in up to two different countries at the moment and who may even be applying for social security at the moment in Finland. It does not hurt, but if a single entrepreneur may then take a chill, he will then be sitting here, even at extra sessions, to see to it that he can make a difference as quickly as possible. I'm worried. I must say that in yesterday's debate I had hoped that the people in the centre, especially Mr Ovaska, would show us where the muscles in the centre are. But Ovaska seems to be at home, so there does not seem to be any muscle in the city centre to speak on behalf of the entrepreneurs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u21	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u22	Mr President! So this is about the fact that the entrepreneur is entitled to labour market support if his full-time employment has ended in the company because of the interest-bearing pandemic. This in itself is very welcome, but just as many have said here, this is too short a period of validity. Not only does it come to mind the very same thing that the representative has just mentioned, but we are prepared to extend social aid for others, but not for entrepreneurs, which seems unfair, it also seems to be bad legislation in the sense that we are doing such short-term legislation. This would only apply until the end of February. I am therefore very much in favour of this objection being put into effect, i.e. that it will remain in force until the end of May. But, Mr President, the most important thing for entrepreneurs, for these restaurant entrepreneurs, for tourism entrepreneurs, for events entrepreneurs and so on, which are in great distress at the moment, would be to know what is the vision of the future and what is the exit plan for this. Mr President! I would like to take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that Mr Salmon, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, is here: would we not be able to take an expert hearing in committee on when we can move to this so-called seasonal flu phase? After all, the Spanish Prime Minister has proposed that his country should move to the next stage, as if from this pandemic. This is, of course, a decision which must take very careful consideration when it is the right stage and must therefore have a very wide consultation of experts. I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health would be exactly the right place for that evaluation to be carried out, and I hope that my colleague will give me an answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u23	Representative Salmon, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u24	Mr President! I understand Mr Kauma's wish and also the question of whether the committee, as a matter of its own — if I have understood correctly — could deal with how this is viewed. I don't see any obstacle. We have this open and we have heard many times about the current issue of corona. However, I do not see that the committee is the one that will resolve this question when Finland will move to that stage. In my view, this is a question of medical and epidemiology expertise — not so much a political issue, to a lesser extent a party-political one. I think it is important that this is constantly being considered in society. It is so, quite simply, that many companies and many Finnish people in the midst of this pandemic are in mental and economic distress. Of course, in a way, there should not be a policy which is too tight and restricts people's activities. Let us return to this question, and the committee may well deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u26	Congressman Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u27	Madam President! Colleagues from opposition parties have spoken so well about this legislation that I just want to say briefly that the fact is that entrepreneurship carries Finland. In this respect, when we are living in the midst of these exceptional times, it is really important that the government of the country listens to entrepreneurs with a more sensitive ear and, as entrepreneurs have been in a great deal of distress because of this pandemic situation, this would be better answered. In this respect, since it is a question of this labour market support, which an entrepreneur who has completely lost his other income can then get, last but not least, it would have been very important to have a common income and support for entrepreneurs that unites the whole of Parliament. I am surprised that even this was not enough for the government to be sensitive to the business of the entrepreneur and also to take the hand of the opposition in the fact that this legislation could have been extended until the end of May. Nor can it be a matter of authority for the government to make such sound decisions. Mr President! I would also like to say that at the moment we have a very large number of entrepreneurs - businesses, but also employees of these companies - in a very difficult and uncertain situation in the restaurant sector, in the tourism sector, in the event sector, in many other sectors, which are currently unduly restricted by these restrictive measures, which clearly no longer have grounds for combating pandemics and epidemics. In this sense, I would like to see a really wider government now that it is sensitive to listen to both experts and entrepreneurs in the midst of this current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u28	Congressman Sjöblom.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u29	Mr President! This is a very important presentation. Although it is being dealt with retrospectively and has already been dealt with several times, it is good and important that it is now being discussed again. I wonder, however, as several Members have already wondered why this is only valid until the end of February. The fear of this extension becoming extra costs is pointless. No entrepreneur applies for this support in vain. They will only seek it if they really need it, for example, to prevent bankruptcy or company closure. The cost of processing is also not in vain, as the income must be reported monthly. An entrepreneur does not apply for unemployment benefit if he or she has income. This extension would have shown that we trust and respect our country's entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u30	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u31	Mr President! In the midst of this pandemic, many Finnish entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and also larger companies have been in financial distress and many entrepreneurs have been in mental distress. That is why it is so important that the government has made a policy along the way that has supported business activities at various stages. It has to be acknowledged that, of course, it has not been possible to achieve all the targeting, but the best result has been achieved for companies to gain an economic bridge over these difficult times. This government proposal that we have before us is one part of this whole, helping small entrepreneurs in this plight. I also understand very well the criticism that this could have been extended a little longer, but at the same time we must always bear in mind that, at least by law, we should not move forward with this pandemic. And I'm reasonably sure that if this were to continue for one reason or another now such a serious situation in which we would have restrictive measures, then the government would react to it — so has been the case until now. [Base Finns Group: Seven times!] And with regard to the speeches that say in some way that the government is hostile to business, if we aim to see objectively what the government has done to support companies — not just in the case of a pandemic, but even if we take tax policy, the reduction of the electricity tax to zero, all in all — there are no grounds for these claims. I understand that it is, of course, something that is very popular in politics, but I think the fact is that there has been a very pro-business policy, and it is, of course, all right in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u32	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u33	Mr President! I must first thank Mr Lohta for his very wise and analytical speech. So it is really important for the government to support entrepreneurs at this difficult time. This proposal is indeed necessary. It is clear that entrepreneurs have had challenging times, and that too has been very mildly stated. Of course we know that the epidemic has also dealt unevenly with different forms of enterprise, but, as a rule, each of us has faced the realism in which the business field has lived for about two years. This much talked about period, i.e. until the end of February, is admittedly a short period, to which the committee has also drawn attention, but the unpredictability of the epidemic, its many twists, are in favour of a short-term review. Mr Salmon also described the situation very well. I would say that if this temporaryity proves to be too short a period of time, which is possible, we would also be here in Parliament, we would take account of the experience and, of course, we would have made the necessary extension, perhaps even developed it. I don't think it's any more complicated than that. President! In fact, even more important for entrepreneurs than this proposal would be to encourage us to open up society even more. The restrictions in force, whatever their direction, are not in all respects proportionate or even reasonable. This is perhaps the most important thing when we consider the position of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u34	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u35	Madam President! Indeed, entrepreneurship carries Finland. Many small entrepreneurs bring the local services to us, and especially business name entrepreneurs, and these are very important to us all from the point of view of Finnish business life. Indeed, this epidemic, which has been running for a few years now, has brought about these restrictions and thus had a very decisive impact on the turnover and activity of the various companies. This has been very wisely spoken of, such as representatives of the Kivisaari and the Salmon, on this basis in advance, and I quite agree that we should look ahead, that is to say, to get rid of the restrictions and, so to speak, towards the summer on this issue. This motion: It makes sense to consider the proportion of the period in which this is long enough, and when it appears to come into force only when the law is fully in force and does not come into force retrospectively, it must be put in place as quickly as possible. As Kiviranta and the partners have wondered, the government has indeed been awake. It cannot be said that we are an anti-business government; we have already done this same legislative thing seven times already, seeking protection for entrepreneurs, unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs. Mr President, I would like to raise another point which Mrs Myllykoski raised yesterday in the debate: Here in Parliament, we would have to discuss the issue of unemployment security for entrepreneurs in spite of this epidemic and, among other things, consider the role of small entrepreneurs below the poverty line and their future. Similarly, there should be a wider debate on pension provision. I would see that the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Working Life would be here, and if there were open issues, I would see that we would raise these issues up and then look further into this future of the Finnish small business field and the possibilities for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u36	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u37	Mr President! We should be grateful that we still have entrepreneurs in this country who are able to believe tomorrow. For a couple of years this corona has strangled the situation of many entrepreneurs, and they are struggling with great difficulties, yet they still have the little spark. If we are talking about event organizers, restaurants, performers, artists, musicians, if we are talking about tourism, many are sole entrepreneurs, and it is great that they still have faith in tomorrow. If we do not have companies, then we will not have jobs, and that will lead to disaster. We know that bankruptcy has also increased significantly in recent times. This objection now calls for an extension of the right to unemployment benefit. It cannot be, good government, to be extended until the end of February. After all, we must look a little further now, and by the end of May we would have that motion in this protest, and I support it. I therefore hope that the government representatives, who have come up with some very constructive speeches, will come to this solution by extending this period to the end of May. I would like it to be thought that our companies have such a healthy business that it would be a disaster if they now went to the point where there is absolutely no resources left to go on. This could already help to some extent, and I appeal to the government to extend this period, the right to unemployment benefit, as the objection suggests.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u38	Congressman Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u39	Mr President! Business and entrepreneurs need predictability. Now this bridge, to which Mr Salmon referred, returns every month, and entrepreneurs are in doubt when the pioneers on the left are spreading their hands. Why is it so difficult for you to make lasting and long-term decisions instead of making these decisions every month? I understand very well that the social democrats are not interested in the business of entrepreneurs — and even after the less successful regional elections. The fact is that the result has not even been confirmed yet, as Minister of Transport Harakka is already planning further increases in the price of petrol. [Base Finns Group :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u40	Congressman Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u44	Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u45	Mr President! Mr Pirttilahti's speech must be corrected to the extent that this legislation will enter into force retrospectively, i.e. it is intended to enter into force retrospectively from the beginning of January. I agree with the representatives in this House that it is of course a challenge for us to make temporary, short-term regulations, and that is what the committee also drew attention to. But as has already been said at the mouth of more than one representative, this pandemic also poses a number of challenges for us. The pandemic is very mysterious. We do not know whether, at the end of February, we are in a situation where restrictions can be lifted, when this temporary derogation is no longer needed, but we can also be in a situation where this should be continued. I would like to say that both the government and Parliament and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities have acted quickly here, reacted quickly, took matters into consideration and put them into effect. Unemployment security for entrepreneurs is something that we in this Parliament should really be discussing, other than in such a very exceptional situation, and unemployment protection should be strengthened, other than when it is in the hands of a pandemic of this kind. One solution would be the basic income proposed by the Left Alliance, which would be a very sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u46	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u47	Madam President! It is easy to continue with that statement by the chairman of the committee, in which Mr Pekonen has indeed pointed out that the committee has also taken the view that these short-term legislative issues are regrettable and that in future these follow-up decisions should be more predictable and should also be communicated by the government. That is what I have just said in my first speech: when the restrictions went out and the government set them in December, it would have been good for entrepreneurs to have been informed in mid-December that this unemployment benefit will come into effect in January, but it was only this week, or the week before yesterday, that the government's decisions and policies were made clear. It's a long time for a lot of entrepreneurs. It's a month and a half. Representative Lohe had an excellent idea and a good speech about restrictions on the opening hours of restaurants. The truth is that in many places, especially in the tourist destination, people are now being squeezed into a small space to eat take away, and there if the corona may have spread. I myself proved at that Oulu airport that there was no chair to sit on when everything was restaurant space, and then there in a small space that is not restaurant space, two-and-a-half hundred people are waiting in a jam. So common sense, and not urban sense, there is absolutely no sense here, but it is wonderful that the chairman of the committee raised this point, because I am confident that the centre will also manage this message in the government now and make sense of these restrictions and that it will not impose restrictions that make it worse for people to be in the same state and in a small space, but try to impose restrictions that prevent it. Madam Speaker! When the political memory is really short, I will end by saying that it is great that it has been achieved during this period that the entrepreneur will receive unemployment benefit. Last season we made a huge reform of the fact that the family member of an entrepreneur is entitled to unemployment benefit. If that reform had not been carried out by the Sipilä Government in the last period, we would currently have the spouses and family members of entrepreneurs who would:
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u48	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u49	Madam President! It is positive that we will be able to deal with a good proposal in principle to extend this right of entrepreneurs to labour market support by means of temporary rules. It is, of course, a pity that the scope of this is now only one month away, which is a very short period of time, and in that sense I consider a more consistent and justified motion to extend the period of validity of the objection to this report until the end of May. I think that Mrs Salmon and many others here are quite right that, of course, for entrepreneurs, the more sustainable solution would be that these corona restrictions — which have certainly been necessary in many respects — would not be excessive, in other words that they would be only in those necessary situations and proportionately. Yes, I am concerned about the very same thing, which is that it would be a good idea to have some time to adjust the opening hours of food restaurants, because people sit there and eat and can keep those distances. It is quite different whether we are talking about food restaurants or, for example, nightclubs or dance places. Similarly, sports businesses, such as gyms, have worked hard to keep these places open in a health-proof way, and not only is this restriction of sports facilities a problem for entrepreneurs, but it also adds to the problems that are being tackled by this law, and I fear that it will also be a problem for public health if there is unnecessary restrictions on exercise activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u50	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u51	Mr President! I will continue a little more with the last speech, which is this opportunity for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to take up this exit plan and when, as it were, to move towards normal, as a matter of personal concern. I think it is very important to do this, even though it is in the government's decision-making and responsibility to decide on these matters in the end. I myself have at least received a lot of feedback on the fact that citizens are very confused all the time about these very unclear restrictions and also about their legitimacy. That is where Mrs Räsänen raised the issue of gyms, where an appointment booking plan, for example, can be well followed, with only a certain number of people being taken into a certain size and in a pre-planned manner. The same goes for restaurants. Personally, I am in favour of food restaurants being open until 10:00 p.m. The argument is that for the majority of restaurants, eating lunch in itself does not make it profitable, but they need the dinner meal to support it, which usually means buying the wine or beer from which the actual margin comes. And by this I do not mean that I would like to direct the Finns to the alcohol tables, but that the restaurants in general should be able to do the work they want to do and people would be able to move towards normal. We are about to have a third year in this corona pandemic, and we still do not know how to move on. This bill goes on for two months now, at the most, and then we may be reorienting the same law again.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u54	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u55	Mr President! Representative Salmon there just spoke beautiful, there were reasonable reasonings, and indeed Mr Talvitie [Interjection] A good example was the Sunday evening: The entrepreneur's premises had separate facilities, sauna facilities, which were rented from there. On the other side of the wall, the company in question would also have had the right to obtain a license, and we would have used his liquor services if it were allowed, but when it was not, it was not. Then a drink was taken from the S Group or Kesko’s large retail chain by the time they got there.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u56	Congressman Vallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u57	Madam President! The best social security for entrepreneurs would be for all restrictions to be lifted as quickly as possible. Mr Kauma, I would like to say that such an exit plan should be drawn up as soon as possible. Finland has always said that it is a pioneer in it and here. Now Finland seems to be a tail skier. In many countries restrictions are already being lifted and exit plans are already being made available. I myself was on that session break for a couple of weeks in another European country where there were no restrictions on restaurants or questions about corona passports. So this corona can be treated very differently. It depends on politics and politicians how they deal with this. It was extremely refreshing to be in a place where there was a normal life and there were no such strange locks after locks and restrictions on restrictions and a truly confused, confused political decision making. Even experts are no longer properly listened to, but are simply driven by an ideology of their own. As I said, this discipline and humiliation of entrepreneurs would have to stop, and it would be the best social security for entrepreneurs to have these restrictions lifted quickly. However, if these restrictions are maintained, this social security scheme for entrepreneurs should continue until the end of May and not be subject to such four-week laws. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u58	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u59	Mr President! Just a few comments on the ideas presented here: It is quite true, as is the case here with the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Salmon noted that people's behaviour also affects how entrepreneurs have customers. Well, at the moment, however, the situation for many of these entrepreneurs in the tourism and restaurant sectors, for example, is that there can be no customers when the seats are closed. It would, of course, be of paramount importance now to bring this law into force for them too, and for the very reason that it may be a long-term situation that customers do not return in the same way, so that these laws cannot exactly be bound to those restrictions, as was mentioned here in previous speeches, but must also be given a slightly longer-term perspective for these entrepreneurs as well. Mr President! We've been talking about restrictions here anyway. Representative Kauma raised the need for an exit plan. That's what we really need right now. These laws that we passed together here certainly served the purpose and the situation when we had a slightly more manageable deltarian or, in particular, the previous variants that were a little more easily combatable by traditional means. Now, in this situation where we are at the moment, where in practice you can get infected from almost anywhere, where people are and where people meet, these restrictions that we currently have, for example, with regard to restaurants, are not very effective. And, for example, gyms or swimming pools are places whose closure is a disservice to public health that doesn’t matter more. I hope and have tried to make an active contribution to the fact that, here in southern Finland too, we will soon be able to open these low-risk places so that people can safely take care of themselves and their own condition. I believe that responsible entrepreneurs also want to act in such a way that the risk of infection is minimised, and that we also have obligations in legislation to take care of it in areas other than the closure clause currently in place. Mr President! I therefore hope and agree with Mr Kauman's wish that Parliament, too, should be able to deal with the updated exit plan as soon as possible, because that would also give prospects and hope for the future, both for entrepreneurs and for our society as a whole. I believe that quite a few more than entrepreneurs are already very tired of this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u60	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u61	Thank you, Mr President. When Korona struck two years ago, quite precisely, in Italy, I myself immediately demanded strict restrictions, and of course we have been pleased that the Finnish government took the line taken — our interest rate policy has been one of the most successful in Europe. Now that view is different, just as has been well demonstrated in the speeches. Those who wish to have been vaccinated are well protected against these serious forms of disease. There is no prospect that we will now find a new way to reverse the situation quickly. Unfortunately, it seems that those who have decided not to do so often remain in that decision, and we must act accordingly. This winter we have had to protect both the vaccinated and the unvaccinated because care has been taken to ensure that health care is carried. Even at the moment the situation is very bad, but it seems now that perhaps this week this burden in hospitals is beginning to ease, and of course, if and when this happens, as is hoped, then immediately at least low risk, exercise and culture, must be opened up. There is no reason to prolong them. But now, I hope, is exactly the time to start opening up society, of course, it must also be done with caution. It is known that it is not yet possible, for example, to open nightclubs or karaoke in the restaurant sector, where it is known that the disease is most widespread. It is a matter of responsibility that this situation should be brought forward, hopefully to the end. And, of course, we must be pleased to see that this right to unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is now being dealt with in particular, that this government has introduced this unemployment benefit for historical entrepreneurs,
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u67	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 3.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u68	The sitting adjourned at 3:09 p.m. and the second item in the order of business is now resumed. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u69	Madam President! I propose that the entry into force rule should take the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u70	Madam President! I support the proposal made by Mr Satose.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u71	At the same time, I ask here whether the voting machines work in the gallery. — Is there any technical assistance nearby? Let's wait a minute. - All right, then move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u72	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 39/2021 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — General discussion, chairman of the committee, representative of the salmon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u73	Mr President! The proposal also proposes that unemployment benefit be paid on a temporary basis with the retention period for unemployment benefit. In addition, the proposal proposes that, in the event of a change in income as a result of the corona epidemic, the income should be estimated on the basis of the applicant's own declaration. The change in the reconciliation of company income relates to the second government proposal before Parliament, which suggests that, despite the continuation of the business, the entrepreneur is temporarily entitled to labour market support if the full-time work has ended or income has decreased due to the interest-bearing pandemic. The corresponding provisions on unemployment benefit related to the corona pandemic entered into force in March 2020 and have been extended on several occasions. The provision on the payment of unemployment benefit during the retention period was in force until 31.12.2020 and the provision on the mediation of entrepreneurial income until 30.11.2021. As a difference to the previous regulation, the Government proposal before us does not propose that the State finance the cost of benefits paid for the period of own provision, but that the benefits be financed in accordance with the general principles of unemployment protection, i.e. the Employment Fund, the State and the Unemployment Fund. In addition, in addition to the changes now proposed, no changes are proposed to facilitate lay-offs, which were in force in 2020 at the same time as temporary changes to unemployment benefit. The committee considers the provisional provisions proposed to be justified in exceptional circumstances due to the current epidemic situation and advocates the adoption of a legislative proposal without amendment. The proposed amendments strengthen the security of workers' livelihood, which has been weakened by the measures taken to combat the corona virus epidemic. Payment of the benefit for the period of self-reliance on unemployment benefit will improve the financial position of the beneficiary. According to the impact estimates of the Government’s proposal, for example, the laid-off earnings-related allowance increases the unemployment benefit by an average of EUR 375 and the basic daily allowance or labour market subsidy by around EUR 168 compared to the situation in which the own-account period would apply. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and the amendments are proposed to be applied retroactively as from 1 January 2022. Mr President! The committee notes that the proposed provisions are in force for an exceptionally short period of time, only 28. Until 1 February 2022 and an extension of the period of validity has been proposed in the expert consultation of the committee. The short period of validity of the provisions creates uncertainty for beneficiaries and any extension of the provisions will burden decision-making and implementation of the benefits. However, the committee considers the short term of the provisions to be justified in the light of the uncertainty surrounding the evolution of the epidemic situation and the costs arising from the exceptional provisions. If the epidemic situation requires the continuation of the provisional provisions, the committee considers it important that the proposal be submitted in such a way that sufficient time is left for parliamentary scrutiny and there is no longer any need for retroactive legislation. In view of the retroactive application and the short term of the proposed amendments, the Committee stresses that the implementation of the provisions must pay particular attention to information and advice for beneficiaries. Mr President! The committee's report was not unanimous, but one objection was raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u74	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u78	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u79	Mr President! The proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act. It states that the period of self-responsibilities set at the start of the unemployment benefit would be paid as a basic daily allowance, earnings-related allowance or labour market support, and it also proposes that, in the context of the reconciliation of company income, mediation may be made on the basis of the information provided by the beneficiary. This temporary change is justified in order to improve the income of workers if they become laid off. A similar amendment was made to the Unemployment Security Act in the first interest rate spring of 2020. At that time in 2020, when the first restrictions on interest rates closed down restaurants and leisure facilities, a faster possibility to lay off was also agreed on the triad. These two proposals in the first spring, the amendment of the Unemployment Protection Act and the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act, were then seen as a balanced solution to the difficult situation of both employers and employees. Instead of the normal 14 days, it was possible to lay off in five days, but accordingly the employee received unemployment benefit right from the start of the lay-off, i.e. the five-day period was abolished. However, at the same time as the amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act under discussion, the Government has not put forward a proposal to introduce faster lay-off. Exemption rules for lay-offs would be necessary in order to avoid bankruptcy and workers also have a job to return to. Another problem with this proposal is that it has only been put on until the end of February. It has been estimated that uncertainty in the evolution of the epidemic situation would be in favour of this short period of time. However, the validity period is very short given that the current interest rate situation in Finland has been serious and THL has also estimated that the peak could be at hand at the turn of January-February. The interest rate situation has been prolonged and we have seen the repeated application for a continuation of legislative proposals — several times. Many commentators expressed the view that the validity of the law should be extended. It would make sense to extend the period of validity of the current law, at least until the end of May, in order to ensure that, as the interest rate situation continues to be difficult beyond February, there is no need to continue to impose a burden on decision-making, and the situation would also be more predictable for beneficiaries. If, then, the situation with regard to the interest rate improves significantly in the past, then a law can always be repealed. In this situation, we must also consider the workload of officials and also the issues to be dealt with in Parliament. And this repeated introduction of legislative proposals into a short period of time does not seem to be a sensible use of resources. On the basis of the comments received, it was also suggested that the proposal should be clarified that the removal of the allowance should only apply to situations in which the worker is laid off. The purpose is to respond explicitly to short-term lay-offs due to the sudden decline in demand. Furthermore, the proposal does not propose that the State finance the costs of benefits paid for the period of own provision, as was the case with the previous legislative amendment adopted. It is now proposed that benefits be financed in accordance with the general principles of unemployment security, i.e. the Employment Fund, the State and the unemployment funds. Most of the opinions have pointed out that since this is a unilateral solution by the State, the additional costs involved should also be financed by the State. Mr President! Many entrepreneurs have been in a very tight situation — the interest rate situation has been prolonged, business activity has been reduced, workers have been laid off, we have to go with very little cash — and this would require predictability and also the possibility of preparing for it. The extension of this bill would have been a signal in that direction. It would also have been hoped, on the basis of expert advice, that the issue would be dealt with in a tripartite manner, taking into account the views of the various sides as well as the need for further legislative changes. The Coalition Party has lodged an objection to this report, which the Finns of Finland have also agreed with, and we also have the amendments to the section on which we are voting today, and then the motions for statements, which will then be discussed later. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u80	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u81	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the report. Well, that's a good job, isn't it? The committee therefore considers the proposal to be justified and supports the adoption of the draft law unchanged. And no wonder, the performance really strengthens the security of the employee's livelihood, both in the event of unemployment and lay-off. We all know that the restrictive measures, for example in the food and tourism sectors, have led to the fact that the bread has run out of bread and that there has been no work available. This proposal is therefore necessary from the employee's point of view. Of course, paying the benefit for the period of responsibility will improve the financial position. For example, it is estimated that the unemployment benefit for earnings-related daily allowance will improve by an average of EUR 375 and that the person receiving the basic daily allowance will benefit by approximately EUR 168. All of this is reasonable and necessary. However, I believe — and perhaps also to return to the previous debate — that it would be more important than this wise report to really start moving towards liberalisation. Not in the jacket-open way, but in a smart way and with reason. I am not at all sure whether the current closures of nutritionists, such as low-risk restaurants, or gyms in parts of the kingdom are very proportionate or understandable. No, they're not. I do not quite understand the fact that, for example, a back-disordered person cannot go back and rehabilitate or the family cannot go to dinner at the restaurant after 6 p.m., let alone what happens in the cultural or sports sectors. Those people have the vaccines they've wanted to take. Fortunately, the omicron is mostly more gentle than the earlier variants. President! However, this bill is a good one. The committee also rationally considers that the provisions will be in force for an exceptionally short period of time, i.e. until the end of February. However, I am also inclined to the view of the committee that the uncertainty of the evolution of the epidemic and, of course, the costs that arise also encourage moderation and a shorter-term perspective. If we still have to beat this up in the future, we have to be on time so that we don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u82	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u83	Madam President! This is an excellent performance. It proposes a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act, and the proposal also provides that compensation should be paid for the period of self-responsibilities set at the start of the payment of unemployment benefit. Unfortunately, this temporaryity is too short in this proposal as well, and I therefore support this very well-founded objection, which calls for this period to be until the end of May. I am not going to repeat all the things I said in my previous speech at the previous reading, but this kind of use of the law, as used here, as a short-term measure of this kind is not desirable in this house, nor is it appreciated by the people that here every few months these matters will be dealt with. There should be more tolerance and possibility, even if the regulations in some way provide guidance on how to use this, but now that the validity is so short, then there will be no regulation of this legislation for this law to be used, which is regrettable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u84	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u85	Madam President! It is a very good thing that you also receive unemployment benefit from your own days. It is an important source of income for many laid off or unemployed — especially for low incomes, it means a lot. Many low - income loners often live from hand to mouth, and when there is no extra money in the savings, then when unemployment comes, there will be problems and there will be social assistance if such days come and there will be no money. But then again, in this proposal, this term of validity is again such a short period, which means that, as in the previous one, the government imagines that the pandemic will now be broken by clicking on the fingers next month and everything will return to normal. Now, however, many have done a shorter day, fewer hours of work and have to squeal and have no idea what will happen in the future. There are indoor playgrounds, gyms, restaurants, diners, where there is money for a tight entrepreneur, and then there is uncertainty among those workers that there are jobs. Yes, it may be that while this pandemic is now at some point making things easier, there will be bankruptcy there and the workers will be unemployed, just as the entrepreneur himself will be. Especially in these suburbs, people may not return to the way they used to be when they sat down until later on — and then it becomes unemployment. I do not know if the left side will then imagine that the Restel, owned by Tradeka, will buy all these suburban cups and guarantee a continuation in the future, or how will they think? I would put at least this period of validity there until the end of May in order to ensure a little longer. Even the SAK suggested that this would go all summer, so it would be good for the government to listen even to SAK if it did not listen to the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u86	Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u87	Mr President! Business activity has been severely restricted throughout the country in many sectors. This will, of course, increase the need for companies to lay off their staff. It is therefore important that unemployment benefit should also be paid in the event of restrictions. This will improve the security of workers as interest rate restrictions drastically reduce the need for labour. It is, of course, good that this proposal should come into force retrospectively, it is indeed necessary, but it is easy to agree with that from the chairman of the committee that, if this were to continue after February too, it would be given to Parliament in good time in February. In such an area, especially when it comes to this kind of people very strongly influenced by legislation, it is of course good to follow the way that the presentations are not backward but are given in due time.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u88	Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u89	Madam President! Indeed, the proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act. It is an important and well-founded proposal, and its content and objectives are, for the most part, easy to support and support. There are, however, a few points that need to be raised at this stage. Firstly, this time limit for the own contribution. It is now proposed that unemployment benefit should be paid in the form of basic daily allowance, earnings-related allowance or labour market support for the benefit period, but in previous times it has also been possible to implement this more rapid lay-off, i.e. instead of its normal 14 days, it has been possible to lay off in five days, but then, again, the worker has received unemployment benefit right from the start of the lay-off, i.e. in practice, the five-day retention period has been abolished. Why did the government not want to do this in this context? This has been precisely what has enabled quick solutions from entrepreneurs and, together with the workers, they have been able to balance the financial situation of the company in such a way that it has had an effect on the fact that there has been no bankruptcy and that there has been no major financial cost in the absence of work. And the second point is this entry into force. Of course, this will come into force from the beginning of the year, but it would be good if it were in force in the spring. And secondly, when the government set out to make the restrictions that are now in force, even after mid-December, it would have been reasonable, responsible and also proactive and good policy for the government to say at that time in mid-December that Parliament will adopt these laws during January, not only in this mid-January. The third point after this entry into force and then after this retention and shorter lay-off is that, in line with the general financial principles, these benefits are now to be financed by the Employment Fund, the State and the unemployment funds. However, most of these statements raised the point that, given the unilateral nature of the solution put forward by the State, these additional costs should be financed by:
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u90	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u91	Mr President! It is a very good thing that those who are laid off in this corona discipline get there without any liability. But even more important, when that layoff period is over, there will be a job left. That is why I cannot help but wonder that the other half of this government proposal has now been forgotten. In other words, it has completely forgotten that employers can lay off faster in five days, as agreed at the beginning of the three-pronged interest rate. Where's it gone? How is there now only this other side, which is therefore very much to be welcomed? I do indeed wonder, because this would be an extremely important issue for employment and for the position of employers, i.e. for business to continue. So it's really bad that this is what's missing. I also share the view that the duration of the law is definitely too short, because this interest rate will not go away now, and even if it does, in any case, the economic effects will be reflected for a longer time. In other words, I support the points raised in the objections and statements made by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u92	Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u93	Madam President! Indeed, a good motion for change from a good government. I would also like to thank the committee, the chairman of the committee, Markus Salmon, and the members of the committee, for their rapid handling. Indeed, the starting point here is that workers' livelihoods will be safeguarded from the restrictions imposed by this epidemic, which have created obstacles to business and thus to employment. It is really, really important that workers' livelihoods are also taken into account here. This is a little linked to previous legislation, and it is great that this law is also in force retrospectively as from 1 January. There's been a lot of conversation. My own mind is a little too much as to whether this period of validity is too abruptly ending on February 28th. But, as has already been said here before, a lively government is alert and awake to the fact that if this extension is needed, then it will come, as President Salmon also mentioned there. One good thing about this is unemployment security for secondary entrepreneurs by taking these subsidies into account in this conciliation on the basis of their own proposal. In my opinion, this will significantly reduce bureaucracy and ease the practice of this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u94	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u95	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here. I myself am in favour of this law, but this is a bit of the same problem as the law we were discussing earlier today, which means that this law is too short until the end of February, and I think it should be exactly as it is in this objection to the Convention, that is, until the end of May. The second question that raises this issue is the same as what Mr Satonen said, namely that this lay-off period is normal, 14 days, and now it would be good for Parliament to have it reduced to five days, just as it was at that early stage of the pandemic. And thirdly, this is the responsibility of the State in this matter. After all, it is stated here that ‘the benefits are financed in accordance with the general principles of unemployment security, i.e.the Employment Fund,the State In other words, if the state imposes these restrictions, then it is probably reasonable for the State to pay for the consequences as well. So we have these three points here in protest, which will then be decided on later.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u96	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u97	Madam President! When it is said that workers' livelihoods are safeguarded, it must unfortunately be said that this is not possible. This is a correct and well-made proposal from the government, and it is good that it is now going through and achieving its goals, but I must say that there is a great deal of distress for service workers and part-time workers, especially in the restaurant sector. And yes, the PAM has also announced and pointed out that these alone do not allow people to be in a very difficult position, and they themselves have pointed out that, when companies have had cost subsidies, part-time workers in the service sector should already be given a wage subsidy — or even a wage subsidy — in order to keep these workers in the sector. At one point, it was seen that it was quite difficult to get restaurant workers, i.e. the industry’s attractiveness and the survival of this pandemic, so that the operations and business start up again, is difficult. Although I am here as a representative of the government party, I am bound to join in the sorrows of food nutrition. And a representative. The horror said one important thing, that it is the part that brings the cover, of course the food in the main part. In any case, all we can do is hope now that the first thing we can do is open up the possibility of better provision of services to food service conditions again and then enable workers to earn a living from the work that could be talked about as a means of securing income. It's supposed to be first and really big in the middle. Yes, views have been expressed about the opposition in the right direction. It is certainly important, in view of the continuation, to be able to move these issues forward in the best possible agreement. Today, with regard to these two proposals, we can only thank the government for being responsible for both employers and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u98	Congressman Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u99	Mr President! Let me make it clear from this lay-off point that instead of the normal 14 days, it was possible to lay-off in five days in an earlier pandemic situation, but now it does not exist because we do not have a draft law on it. We also wonder in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health whether it could have been included in it in the form of a statement, but then it was concluded that it could not, because it does not really fall within the remit of this committee, nor was it within the scope of this law. Now we can only hope that the government will bring a proposal which will then be able to decide on this matter separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u100	The vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u101	The sitting adjourned at 3.54 p.m. and the third item in the order of business are now resumed. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u102	Mr President! I suggest that the entry into force rule takes the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-25-ps-165.u103	Mr President! I'm in favour.
