ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Laiho, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u2	Mr President! Today, we have an amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act, which, on the first day of lay-off, will now receive unemployment benefit at the time of this interest rate, and that is, of course, a well-founded change. However, the Coalition Party, together with the Finns-Finnish Party, has submitted a protest here, first of all that this term is only until the end of February, which is a very short period of time, also taking into account the current interest rate situation, and we have proposed a continuation of this until the end of May. The second thing we have wondered about is why this procedure for speeding up lay-offs has not been included, which was earlier when this bill was discussed. A second proposal was brought together, which would make it easier for entrepreneurs in this difficult situation of interest rates, so that some jobs could also be saved, while entrepreneurs now have to carry out a lengthy process. And the third point: interest rate costs. The State has promised to compensate for the consequences of the restrictive measures. Now these costs will be borne by others, and we have made a statement to that effect. In other words, we have already voted on our amendment on Tuesday with regard to this validity, but now we are going to object to the motions for statements: ‘The Commission shall require the Government to prepare And: ‘The Commission requires that the additional costs incurred by the proposal
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u3	Thank you. — Congressman Kauma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u4	Mr President! The proposal made by Mrs Laiho must be supported, therefore I support it. And this is a very important point for the government that this proposal to speed up lay-offs should come quickly. Instead of 14 days, it would be good to have a period of 5 days, which would certainly be in the interest of both the employer and the employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u5	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u6	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the views already expressed here by representatives of Laiho and Kauma. Perhaps a further addition to this is that, when the government took new decisions yesterday, which slightly reduced these interest rate restrictions, they were not yet relaxed enough to allow, for example, food restaurants — not to mention bars — to change the situation from the point of view of this situation, where we are now. In other words, there is still a great need for lay-offs and also for new lay-offs, and then it would be very important not only for the workers to receive this leave allowance without any liability — as I think is absolutely necessary in this situation, and I understand that everyone in the Chamber agrees — but also for the employer to have the right to more rapid lay-off so that those workers still have a job after this process is over. Now many restaurants are very tight, and entrepreneurs in many other areas — sportsmen, entrepreneurs across the board, tourism, many — are very tight. There is a great risk that these companies will fall completely, and then these jobs will also go under. In other words, I would like to see this matter quickly translated into what is in the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u7	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u8	Mr President! We have heard three good speeches and their proposals. It is easy to support and also agree with the fact that these measures are constantly being introduced in a limited number of ways. Earlier, when there was a debate here — some of these things are already the seventh time in Parliament’s deliberations — so little did it seem that when we praised the good content of the presentations for the opposition, the government was more eager than ever to bring them here — they are the same as the praises these presentations have collected — but now, the government should take this situation seriously and take care of these situations of the companies but, above all, the representatives of the Labour Party, these situations of the workers. That is exactly what is being helped here, and that is why this extension, which Mr Laiho has proposed, is very much to be welcomed. Now, after yesterday's decisions, the question is: who will stop in our country before, restrictions or restaurants? It is disconcerting that,for example, THL, our best expert, the Institute for Health and Welfare, has pointed out that ‘in practice, food and staff restaurants’ could be reduced,so that they are open to thebean’s night, but the governmentis bypassing these expert opinions andconclusions:only crumbs,are not being carried outin a safe way by entrepreneurs. In the restaurant sector, entrepreneurs found that the decisions taken by the left-wing government and the Mr Kiuru has promised a long time ago that the number of places for intensive care will be increased but not increased, and that is why we were again in this situation. [PetriHuru’s interlude] Mr President! The other Nordic countries, for example, acted in a completely different way. In other Nordic countries, food restaurants have been open for several weeks until 11 p.m.,
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u9	Congressman Juuso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u10	Mr President! I thank the government for the fact that this law has now come. That was good. I myself have asked the government this question in writing at the beginning of January, and now Mr Sarkkinen has answered me, this came and this has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. That's good. This is only reasonable for those workers who are again laid off when there are severe restrictions on restaurants. The five-day write-off has been calculated to cost EUR 10 million for two months. It is, in fact, quite a small amount of money when you think of the loss these restaurant entrepreneurs suffer because of these terrible restrictions. What I would like to criticise most now is the term of validity. Of the expert opinions — about a dozen — only one expert, or STM, has advocated such a short term of validity, i.e. until the end of February. All other experts submitted a longer term of validity until the end of May or June. Now, Mr Salmon has speculated publicly that the opposition wants to extend the corona by extending this legislation until the end of May. This is a rather unusual turn of events, because it is not a question of us extending the restrictions. Restrictions are for the government to decide, and it is quite clear that if the government takes away all restrictions, no one will be able to get the days of ownership funded from the outset on the basis that the restrictions are in force. The point of this extension is that we do not have to sit once a month in committees and in Parliament on this same issue, that we should extend the restrictions a little and a little and a little and a little. We have other legislative work that suffers from the fact that we are constantly discussing these restrictions and the gradual extension of the legislation, so that in this respect we Finns of Peru have agreed with the opposition of the Coalition Party. Of course, there are a number of other points in that legislation that could be criticised, but I will leave them for another time. Overall, it is good that these days were now abolished, but the bad news is that this law is only in force until the end of February.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u11	Thank you. — Mr Laakso, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u12	Mr President! You know, it reminds me of a movie when I'm in the middle of my day. We're gonna wrestle this same thing around here with a constant pitch. We could have done these things in the first place so that they would have been longer lasting. Now, in practice, only one month will be given to the workers again in this job, which will of course make us here in a month or two to do this job again. At the beginning of the week, I was really worried about the entrepreneurs. Let us not give light to entrepreneurs in these cases, and now we are clearly still not giving light, which is not surprising in itself. It was clear from the beginning of the week that entrepreneurship is of little interest and that entrepreneurs are not given much light in any way. It is absolutely impossible to speed up lay-off for five days, but to insist that no light is shown to entrepreneurs. It comes to mind that it is really the intention to turn off the lights of Finnish restaurants so that companies owned by the left can buy these restaurants cheaply for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u16	Congressman Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u17	Mr President! When the pandemic started in the spring of 2020, the Finnish Government was the first to decide on lockdown, and since then there have been various and complex and sometimes very difficult to interpret restrictions affecting many industries and entrepreneurs. At the beginning of the pandemic, a strong message was sent from this house: “We’ll get through it together. We support entrepreneurs.” Now, after that, we can say that not all things have gone quite as they did in Strömsö. How, for example, can a professional restaurant entrepreneur plan his activities when the cashier is empty and there is no information about next week’s activities or what restrictions will then apply? The Christian Democratic Parliament therefore supports the good protest made by the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u18	Thank you. — Mr Zyskowicz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u19	Mr President! This virus has proved to be so adaptable, persistent and unpredictable that I think it is perfectly understandable that the government has not been able to decide on these various restrictive measures in a systematic and entirely consistent manner. However, I would like to point out a few points in this connection. The fact that Finland has survived this pandemic so well is partly due to the fact that Finns have confidence in the authorities and have been prepared to comply with various regulations and recommendations. This confidence of Finns has been undermined in recent weeks by the fact that it has been felt that these restrictive measures are not consistent with each other and have not been fully justified in relation to restrictive measures in other sectors. Of course, the most well-known example in many discussions has been the fact that the gyms are closed but restaurants can have day beer during the day. Therefore, in the future, even when this situation is unfortunately not over and obviously is not the last pandemic, attention should be drawn to the fact that, even if decision-making takes place at different levels in this country, how can we ensure that the various restrictive measures are consistent with each other and therefore easily understandable and acceptable to the public? Another very topical issue relates to a proposal in preparation for the government, which would require a certificate from doctors other than those responsible for communicable diseases to be available for the day-to-day sickness allowance. This is a good reform, but it still requires a formal test. If and when we have major problems with the testing capacity, is it really necessary to require such an official test to receive an infectious disease allowance, i.e. that people go to the test only because of this social benefit? Can this preparation, which is being carried out by the government, not lead to a solution in which you can receive an infectious disease allowance without an official test?
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u21	Thank you. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u22	Mr President! Just as my colleague, Mr Zyskowicz, said just now, Finland has survived the first two years of the pandemic exceptionally well. However, it does not warm the mind, especially now that we are living through the end of January. Many restaurant and event and tourism entrepreneurs in the north are ready to receive tourists, but they know and see and face daily the fact that the restrictions they currently have are not ludicrous. As an example, food restaurants cannot be served after five, but may have been able to sell take away. We know from the north that it has led to situations where people pack up in small spaces to eat that take away food but are not allowed to use any benches, no tables or anything in that restaurant space. The question must be asked: does the government still have the idea of taking measures that reduce people's encounters and promote the management of the pandemic, or are there measures that restrict, only by the will that it is easy to think that it is being restricted, and by the idea that this restriction will reduce that encounter with people? However, when we are in Parliament, even if we are not really in this area, I hope that, as far as future restrictions are concerned, we will also remember the fact that we have the freedom of business guaranteed by the Constitution for people, and if those restrictions are imposed even a little bit from the point of view that they are unfounded or, on the contrary, reinforce what the restrictions are intended to prevent, then it is inevitable for people to feel that this freedom of business will be restricted. It is easy to be behind this statement and to hope that in all its wisdom the government will now be able to make the sensible and rational restrictions that are also based on the facts that each sector and the infection figures there tell. Of course, the common thing is to get the vaccine coverage up and the pandemic under control. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u23	Thank you. — Mr Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u24	Mr President! This is about making it possible for entrepreneurs to benefit from unemployment, and we voted earlier on whether this proposal could be extended. That amendment did not go through, but later today we will be voting on whether the situation of entrepreneurs, and hence their employees, could be eased by the accelerated lay-offs that were possible earlier last year. Mr President! The situation of entrepreneurs, especially in the Mara sector, which also includes a lot of, for example, indoor park entrepreneurs or also gym operators, is currently very difficult. Perhaps even worse than the fact that the doors have been closed is that the view of the future is very blurry. A couple of weeks ago, I understand that the government, the Government, for the first time negotiated a new package of cost support, closure aid, transaction support, but the details of these subsidies are still in the dark. Mr President! Here I would like to make my condescending request to the government — you have ministers here — that these details be made known as soon as possible. It is now a question of whether these companies are going to be able to cope with this closure too, of these restrictions, of whether we will have restaurants in the future, of tourism companies that can serve customers, and of whether their employees have jobs. Mr President! It is no longer a matter of just a small, short period of time. This situation has now been going on for almost two years, and therefore the resilience of many, both mental and economic, is coming to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u25	Thank you. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u26	Honorable Speaker! Companies need predictability and continuity. Only laws that have imposed various restrictions have been rapidly implemented here, but these concessions will not be granted for a period longer than one month. Mr President! The evening paper announced in August that the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa will start renting diagnostic equipment from a company established with a left-wing Tradeka
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u33	Congressman Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u34	Mr President! Finland is already on a pretty good level with regard to the pandemic. You can see the future, you can see the light. Now is the time to prevent entrepreneurs from going bankrupt — now is the last moment — and also to save jobs. This is, of course, also the view of the Finns, which are fundamental. This is what we're driving, too. Removal of restrictions must be gradually increased. The Finns of Peru support an objection that has already been raised several times here.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u35	Two statements have been made during the debate, so we must put the matter to the vote. The votes will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u36	The sitting adjourned at 11.24 p.m. and the third item in the order of business are now resumed. In the debate, with the support of Mia Laiho Pia Kaumani, two statements of opposition have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u37	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — I will open the debate. Congressman Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u38	Mr President! At the moment, the whole of Finland is wondering how soon this country will be opened. I believe that, now that entrepreneurs are looking at this and thinking that this kind of patchwork legislation is being passed here — for the seventh time already this is the same thing on our table — it certainly does not encourage the entrepreneurial field. The measure to promote the best new rise in Finland would now be to free this country from these restrictions so that we can get both entrepreneurs and citizens on the move again.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u40	Mr President! This law concerns the fact that an entrepreneur is entitled to labour market support after the full-time employment due to an interest rate pandemic. And here, Mr President, is a little of the same problem as the previous law, namely that it is in force for too little time. Here, too, it would have been good if it had been in force at least until the end of May. Especially since Christmas, there have been many more and more desperate messages from restaurant entrepreneurs, tourism entrepreneurs and event entrepreneurs that when all this ends and how we know what the government's exit plan is, which is a vision of the future, how to get ahead of it, when no one really understands these restrictions anymore. Mr President! I have also noted that there has already been quite a move away from this world of restrictions elsewhere in Europe, and Finland should certainly follow this example closely. At the last meeting I said here that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should take it upon ourselves to hear experts at what stage this pandemic is at in terms of its life cycle, how to proceed here, what measures to take and so on. We have, among other things, cost support for 6 proceedings in the near future and also closure payments, but entrepreneurs want to get to work already. They no longer want to live on these subsidies; they want a view of the future, how to get out of this so that they can do their job.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u41	Thank you. — Mr Heinonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u42	Mr President! This proposal is already before us for the seventh time, and again it is only going to be done for a very short time. That is why it would be justified to look a little further now and learn from what we have already experienced and to expect that this will not be the last situation with this interest rate. It would therefore have been worthwhile if Parliament had changed this proposal and extended it. We have a very difficult situation. We talked earlier about the restaurant and tourism sector, but also about the cultural, sports, sports and event sector in a broad and concrete way, as Mrs Zyskowicz also pointed out, gyms are in a very difficult situation. When there are no health grounds for limiting them, even from the point of view of the interest rate — it has generally been said that they are low-risk places, and they have been able to act with great responsibility during this corona crisis anyway — I personally would like this type of place, which is of public health importance, to be opened up immediately and allowed people to engage and move when it is done in a corona-safe manner. There are handcuffs in use, there are appointment booking systems in use. In this situation, such categorical full locks are totally unreasonable and it seems that they are not used by other countries either. We in Finland here seem to ignore the views of experts and to do a completely different policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u43	Thank you. — Mr Satonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u44	Mr President! Once again, briefly on this matter — or indeed this is something that has been and may still be here seven times — quite a point of view which has not yet been made in this debate, that if this had been the case now, as the Group of the European People's Party and the People's Party and the Christian Democrats have jointly suggested, that this term of office would be until the end of May, it would not actually entail any significant cost, since this includes this livelihood. So if corporate income goes beyond the limit by which the entrepreneur can support himself, then that support will also cease. And, as has been the case here before, Mr Kauma quite well said about this, and this has affected more than 18,000 entrepreneurs. This issue of unemployment security is important — or the right to this labour market support. But they are precisely the kind of entrepreneurs who do not want them to be permanently covered by this labour market support, but they want them to get their business started, and when that business starts and a little more than a thousand euros comes out of it, then they automatically stop receiving this support. In other words, I do not understand why this could not have been valid until the end of May, for example, but now we have to take it back to the end of February, while in a few moments a new proposal will be brought here to move on for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u45	Thank you. — Congressman Talvitie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u46	Mr President! It is very important that the right to unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs be restored retroactively for January-February. However, there are other, almost equally large economic issues, such as the EUR 2000 threshold for cost support. Last autumn, when the closure aid and cost support came, they were in a way comparable, and if the entrepreneur was left with cost support of less than EUR 2000, the entrepreneur did not receive that support at all. Perhaps at the beginning of the pandemic, when we were doing these cost support issues, we thought it would be a good idea for the Treasury to have a threshold of EUR 2000, but unfortunately, Mr President, in the last month I have heard the pain of several entrepreneurs that they did not receive cost support, for example, when the closure aid was reduced, because that amount remained at EUR 1700, EUR 1900. Now we are regulating the right to unemployment benefit, which, however, amounts to less than EUR 2000 for a period of two months. It's a lifeline for a lot of entrepreneurs. They will be able to make the arrangements for the workers to be able to have the slightest hours at work and to secure some kind of daily money and food for the family, and so forth. I hope that the representatives of the government parties, who are in the Chamber — there is also a message to the members of the Government — think that if this situation continues, we could decide to reduce the threshold of EUR 2000 from that cost support preferably to zero but not more than EUR 200 to EUR 500, because it is really and genuinely about those entrepreneurs who would be able to secure their own standard of living with EUR 1500 and keep the company standing — and jobs. After all, it is about those jobs and workers, along with the life of the entrepreneur. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u47	Thank you. — Mr Multala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u48	Mr President! In fact, I was talking about this proposal on the point that I just made, but the same subject matter was, in other words, the question of how entrepreneurs can cope with this situation from now on. Of course, this point also concerned the employees of entrepreneurs equally. Similarly, the situation that is currently under way affects both entrepreneurs and their employees, and that is why this proposal is very important. To this we proposed extending the period of unemployment benefit for the entrepreneur, which was not successful in this vote. However, it is important to re-introduce this proposal. Mr President! The point I would like to make here is that when we have such an infectious disease, which is classified as a general hazard, we have started to discuss how long it will be necessary to treat corona as such. This was discussed yesterday when THL and STM were asked about this at an information conference, and at that time THL was answered that this is, as it were, an enabling issue that, when the disease is on the list of communicable diseases of general concern, it makes it possible to introduce restrictions. However, I would particularly ask the government, which I am sure will take this line in due course, to note that it is not only possible but also binding. In cases where the disease is a communicable disease of general concern or is therefore classified as such, the Act on communicable diseases applies and imposes obligations on, for example, municipalities and regional government authorities as to how to act — i.e. to avoid infections, they should be traceable, testing should be carried out. And we know that we are already in a situation where all these obligations cannot be met and they cannot slow down the progression of this disease. Here, too, is one reason why I think it is very high time to consider what the signs are, so that we can finally think that this disease has become mild enough to move on to the so-called more normal order of things. I am sure that the experts are absolutely right that this is not the case at the moment, but it is certainly time to consider when it is and, on the other hand, the reform of the Act on communicable diseases, in so far as it does not fit into this situation, it would certainly be appropriate to begin immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u49	Thank you. — Mr Junnila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u50	Mr President! It is good that this comes into force retrospectively, as was said at first reading, but it would be reasonable for these to be imported at an early stage. It is now the case that this retroactivity also means looking more to the past than to the future. It would certainly be justified for everyone to have these brought in on time. In any case, when this has to continue after next month, please make sure that even then the proposal is submitted to Parliament in good time. For companies, predictability is important. This has a direct impact on people’s everyday lives. It would be good if the government were to listen if it did not listen to the people of Finland, the Coalition Party or the Christian Democrats, even their main voter, SAK, who also wanted this to end May. Companies have a need to lay off their staff due to limited legislation. In this respect, this will also improve the position of workers. This will take time, and it would therefore be reasonable for the proposal to also be introduced at an early stage, as soon as possible, not to be back at the end of February when the legislation on March is adopted. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u51	Thank you. — Representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u52	Mr President! Now that this situation is looking brighter and better for the future with regard to the interest rate, which is a great thing, we have to think about this controlled dismantling of restrictions. Congressman Heinonen raised the gyms here. What is really important today is that, unfortunately, our citizens are in a state of decay, both for children and adults, so that they can get into hobbies more easily so that they can exercise. Of course, such gyms are very popular, and I cannot understand the fact that if we get to the big grocery store next door to buy food, which is really important, then why can't we go to the gym or practice some exercise, which I believe is no longer a situation that would endanger our health? In other words, it is more important that our citizens improve their condition, because it causes positive things for both the mental and the physical side. The time has come for the gyms to open up, not just for two months at a time, but gradually completely. And in the gym — now that you can also talk about it in this connection — it is alarming that the condition has fallen. Of course, people are depressed when this pandemic has lasted so long, so we need to encourage people of all ages to exercise, and it can now be started by lifting restrictions at sports facilities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u53	Thank you. — Mr Vallin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-28-ps-166.u54	Mr President! We are once again talking about the social security of entrepreneurs during this interest rate, and it is good that we talk and act, but it does raise the question of whether Finnish restaurants, gyms, events and so on will always be closed in the future if, for example, 50 citizens are subjected to intensive care because of a variant or bug. Is this going on year after year? We have people getting older, and there are certain to be some similar phenomena, so that the need for intensive care may increase. It can't be that this is going to be an everyday phenomenon, that this is how it's going to be. However, it would be good to have this debate in this Chamber on how to proceed with these restrictions in the future if the hospital capacity is becoming difficult. We should at least increase that capacity. We have money because we're the ones all over the world sowing that money. That's what I'm thinking. - Thank you.
