ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u1	A citizens' initiative KAA 12/2021 vp has been submitted to Parliament on 19.1.202: ‘Stop congestion charges!’. The citizens' initiative proposes that Parliament should decide to suspend the preparation of laws and regulations allowing congestion charges and that the government should refrain from adopting, and in the future, laws allowing for the introduction of congestion, zone, bypassing customs, tolls, road use, and urban transport charges or other similar new charges for motorists. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act on Citizens' Initiative, the citizens' initiative must include a bill or a proposal to start drafting the law. I would like to point out that it is not possible to provide for the suspension of the drafting of laws and regulations or the non-regulation of laws by law and therefore the citizens' initiative KAA 12/2021 vp does not comply with the strict formal provision for the initiative. In view of the above, I consider that the citizens' initiative is contrary to the Act on Citizens' Initiative and, therefore, pursuant to Article 42(2) of the Constitution, I refuse to take the initiative into consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Sarkkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u3	Mr President! During the end of 2021 and early 2022, the epidemic situation has deteriorated rapidly. This has led, among other things, to an increase in the burden on health care. For this reason, the Government adopted a resolution in principle on the introduction of a national emergency braking mechanism, and the management of the corona epidemic went back to national restrictions and recommendations. In particular, as a result of the restrictive measures, the number of lay-offs is expected to increase. The aim of this proposal is to mitigate the negative financial consequences for workers resulting from restrictive measures. It is proposed that unemployment benefit should also be paid on a temporary basis for the own-account period of unemployment benefit. The payment of unemployment benefit from days of take-over strengthens the income of those who are unemployed and laid off. The beneficiary of earnings-related daily allowance would have an average of EUR 350 at the beginning of unemployment or lay-off and EUR 168 at the start of the basic allowance or labour market support. It is also proposed that, in certain circumstances, business income could be reconciled on the basis of the self-declaration of the entrepreneur. The changes are estimated to increase unemployment benefit expenditure by around EUR 10 million over the two months. Mr President! During the various stages of the Covid-19 epidemic, changes to the legislation on unemployment security have been aimed at safeguarding the position of unemployed job seekers. As the epidemic deteriorates and the restrictive measures tighten up, it is justified to introduce these exceptional provisions in force in the past in order to support the economic situation of those laid off and those who become completely unemployed. The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to be provisionally in force until the end of February 28, 2022. The amendments would apply retroactively from 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u4	Congressman Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Again, we are here to thin out these exceptional laws. Of course, the people who have been attacked by the greatest humanity in this world history must be helped, and there are many in Finland. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that some of you too are victims of this attack, but you may not have understood it yet. Of course, the unemployed and the entrepreneurs must be helped, but it cannot be based on a lie, as is the case here and in the next bill before us today. First of all, it is better to admit directly that people have been disciplined quite unjustly and then go on supporting them. So I don't think that helping on the basis of a lie can lead to any lasting good. First of all, we must understand the fact that this country and nation are now being punished under the direction of the Most High. That is why in this house we have made and continue to make foolish and unreasonable decisions, for He has taken away wisdom from you, ladies and gentlemen. Woe to the amount of shame in this house when the people of Finland rise up from their plight against all this greed and idol worship. It is the fire of awakening that will then ignite in this land, and it will not take long for it to take power from every corner of this country. In it pride is set aside, and humility and justice are replaced. Citizens of Finland, do not be afraid of this present plight, for through it we will be blessed. He who blesses us will take care of us in this time. I would also like to say this to all of you: wake up, watch and wake up your loved ones. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u6	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u7	Madam President! The temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act under discussion shows the responsibility of the government in this situation and its adaptability. These have, of course, been done several times, and I am sure that someone will be able to criticise short-termism — perhaps even more on the next point. In any case, I see such good elements here that I would like the Minister to comment at this stage on whether it would be good now to put in a thorough study group which will monitor the possibilities of this, so that we can then assess if this arrangement is going to be permanent. It is perhaps good to reflect on the permanence of the arrangement in every way, and now we are in a long time. At this point in the case of the unemployed who have been laid off or become unemployed during this epidemic, it is to be commended to the government that at this point we have learned from what was done in the 1990s, which shows a long-term perspective and that we can demonstrate that responsibility to the Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u8	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u9	Mr President! The proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act. The temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act on the right of entrepreneurs to labour market support entered into force for the first time in April 20, and this amendment has been extended six times in the past. The latest temporary change ended at the end of November. The government is now proposing a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Security Act so that it enters into force retroactively from the beginning of the year and would be in force until the end of February. I would like to thank the government for strengthening the financial security of entrepreneurs in this difficult situation. At the same time, however, it must be acknowledged that breaking decisions into small parts brings challenges to us both here in Parliament and in the Employment and Economic Development Offices and Kela. Above all, it presents a challenge to people who are repeatedly threatened by interest. Of course, the government has felt throughout the epidemic that the solutions to changes in unemployment security depend on the current epidemic and labour market situation, but the situation will soon be at least challenging again when we do not know what the interest rate situation will be in March. No one knew in spring 2020 how long the corona will test our society. If you had guessed, perhaps it would have been possible to consider further the examination of the temporary basic income that I presented here. It was then found that it would have taken too long to prepare it. It can now be said afterwards that the basic income could have helped many small entrepreneurs, especially cultural and event professionals, who have had a very difficult situation during the corona. In any case, there is wisdom in this government proposal at hand and, like Mrs Myllykoski, I hope that the continuity of this will be taken further. This proposal is necessary and it is very good that Parliament has met to deal with it without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u10	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u11	Mr President! This bill, which therefore proposes a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act, has good and understandable intentions: to safeguard the livelihood of workers who have been unemployed or laid off as a result of restrictive measures. Logic would therefore be to pay unemployment benefit in the form of basic daily allowance, earnings-related allowance or labour market support. Of course, the abolition of self-sufficiency would increase unemployment benefits for those who are unemployed or laid off: on average, the benefit of laid-off earnings-related daily allowance would improve by around EUR 375, the benefit of unemployment-related earnings-related daily allowance would improve by around EUR 350, and the benefit of basic daily allowance or labour market support would improve by nearly EUR 170. Each one of us knows that these amounts do not, of course, make any croissant, but they will help and contribute to bringing butter to the bread. Unemployment and lay-off times are often not only a human but also an economic crisis, and with this bill the government wants to take this into account by softening it. Yes, the law is meant to enter into force as soon as possible and is thus proposed to be in force for two months, until the end of February. According to the proposal, these changes would also apply retroactively from the beginning of the year. Of course, you might think that the period until the end of February is rather short, but it is also a fact that the stages of the epidemic have been very unpredictable, and I think it is quite justified that we are not looking too far now. President! On the other hand, I would also very much like to see us embarking on the process of opening up society, not, of course, in a haphazard way, but in a controlled way. Although we have too many infections, people have had the chance of multiple vaccinations, and we are fortunate that the majority of us suffer from the plague with mild sorrows. It is also honest to say that people are getting tired of the restrictions. President! Thank the government for this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u12	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u13	Madam President! The government pulled the handbrake again and made a quick U-turn, and this has an impact on the livelihoods of many. While new updates were made to these, who is allowed to be open and for how long, the restaurant industry started to get lay-off slips on the hands of the staff. We know that on many occasions there waiters who are now laid off are part-time workers on a small salary, and these days of responsibility really do affect their livelihoods. That is why it is a good thing that this is now coming into force retrospectively, but it is a little short-lived. When you think that the SAK would have liked this to be until the end of June, when the government generally listens to SAK, you would have listened to it here too and taken this a little further. Yes, as Mrs Myllykoski said, these times of responsibility should determine whether there would be a slightly more permanent solution to these days of responsibility. After all, these days of ownership always affect the most low incomes. For them is the big money for the loss of five days — even the loss of one day in unemployment benefit is big money for many economies. That is why it is a good thing that this is now being brought into force for a while, once this pandemic has an impact on the economy of many people.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u14	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u15	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Sarkkinen, for bringing this proposal for a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act. This will help both laid-off companies and companies, and this is a very welcome reform, and it is important, once again, that this is done with a little retroactivity, that this will also be taken into force retroactively from the beginning of the year. Just as the government parties here have been a little critical of this short period of time, the fact that this is only valid until the end of February, so I myself drew attention to it, and I would have asked Minister Sarkkinen if there was a place here to look a little further. It is very unlikely that this Viper will be out of our company at the end of February. Unfortunately, the difficult situation in companies and workers seems to continue after that. In other words, could we consider this a little longer in committee? And, of course, once we have raised the issue of these things that have come to an end in the past, it would be good not always to react until the situation is in place, but to prepare better for what is coming, that is to say, to be completed rather than always afterwards. Unfortunately, this temporary change in the Unemployment Protection Act had broken down, created uncertainty for a large number of workers as to what would happen to them, but also for companies. Well, then, Mr President, I would like to point out whether all this is appropriate to discipline companies and workers. For example, gyms: The categorical closure of physical activity in Uusimaa, for example, for six weeks now, seems totally unreasonable. The third complete closure of 14 days, Mr Sarkkinen, puts the gyms in a lumpy position, companies in a very difficult situation and, unfortunately, also causes unemployment in this country. Are these measures proportionate and necessary? I looked at, for example, Vantaa’s assessment of the deputy mayor’s position on this lock of exercise, and his criticism was very direct and concrete. Health-promoting services that are important to society should be open, and even international research does not support the fact that these services are being held for such an unreasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u16	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u17	Mr President! It is good to continue with Mr Heinonen's speech that one thing which is also surprising to many people in these restrictions is that when the county border is crossed, the restrictions may be quite different, even if there is no fundamental difference in the disease situation. This is one who doesn't want people to go all the way. I am not focusing on whether these restrictions are necessary and proportionate in this respect, as Mr Heinonen said, but I am focusing on this very draft law. This is a very good thing that, in this situation, we are giving up the retention period. As Lehto said, these are important euros, especially for the low-paid, including the average wage. When these situations arise and when this lay-off now comes because of these restrictions, it is of course extremely important to be able to react to it. So I think this government proposal is good, but I can see that there are two major problems here: One of them has already been mentioned here, and that is that this period is simply not the right one. Does anyone really believe that at the end of this February this issue will be over and in March no one will be in need of this type of lay-off which follows from these restrictions? In other words, I also wonder that this time was not taken longer, even if the end of June, which was proposed by the SAK, or, for example, until the end of May, so that we could go a little further — namely that even if the interest rate ran out tomorrow, the economy would not return immediately, but would take a certain time, and I would therefore like to see a little advantage here. Well, then, another point that I think is also very important is that, when this interest rate started, there was a two-way bill here: it was so that this retention period for the unemployed was abolished, but at the same time the employer was also given the right to do this lay-off more quickly, in five days. So I ask the Minister: why is this proposal not here? I would just like to point out that these companies — which have already mentioned restaurant entrepreneurs, gym operators, many other tourism entrepreneurs — are in a very tight position to be able to continue their business at all and that, once the worker has been laid off, he still has a job after the lay-off. This would be of the utmost importance if this accelerated lay-off were also available to the employer, as originally agreed on a tripartite basis, that these are the two sides which aim to achieve the same result. Why is the other half forgotten now?
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u18	Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u19	Mr President! This bill proposes that unemployment benefit should be paid for the period of self-responsibilities. This was the case in the spring of 2020. This is justified in order to improve the income of workers when they are laid off. At the same time, however, there has not been a proposal for what Mr Satonen referred to here that there could also be temporary provisions to facilitate lay-offs. I would like to ask the Minister this same question: why has it not been included in this context? It would then be a balanced proposal that takes into account both employees and employers. We have companies in a very difficult situation. The interest rate has been prolonged and the result of business activities is very weak in oxygen. That is why it is also important to ensure that entrepreneurs continue their livelihoods so that the company does not go bankrupt, which can be helped by long-term business processes. It would also make sense for the withdrawal to be limited to lay-off, as this proposal does not mean that we want to promote redundancies. I would also like to mention the deadline for this proposal, which has been presented until the end of February. As we have seen, the corona has lasted a long time. Of course, the fact that these legislative proposals are coming in very thinly is a burden on ministries, officials, but it also creates uncertainty for both workers and businesses. It creates a very confusing situation when these issues need to be communicated and then they change again and there will be a new proposal. Could this proposal not be extended further, for example until the end of April now straightaway? In any event, the employment situation is challenging, whether restricted or not, as a result of the need to recover from the restrictions, but for a longer period.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u20	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u21	Mr President! It is indeed the case that this is a proposal, which is certainly to be welcomed, and in this Chamber hardly anyone has a beak to knock on, that such a government proposal will come. This is extremely important as a whole, but it has been said many times in this many speeches that why does this end in a month's time, if you think about this whole process, in the sense that how much time we spend on this job so that we do this with constant input — is this the sixth or seventh time that this is already being dealt with? I'd see it more meaningful if we put a lot of time into it. However, we can meet at any time to remove it from practice. It's kind of crazy to do this with a constant pitch over and over again. And, as Mrs Heinonen has pointed out very well that we always do this in retrospect, why can't we put this on for real, even if it's the end of the year and then sit down at the point where this is no longer needed? It is certain, however, that we will still need this job in March. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u22	Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u23	Madam President! As has already been said on several occasions, the proposal is quite good and welcome, and even if it is a little late in the day, it is better then than not at all. It has been said from many mouths that I am puzzled by this term of office, and that is quite true. It would have made sense for the government to bring this proposal, for example, when it is in force until the end of May, as has the interest groups, the social partners have hoped that this extension would be longer than it is currently in the proposal. The best thing in this situation, however, is where Finland is and in what situation we are dealing with this interest rate and in what situation we currently have vaccination coverage, it would be as soon as possible to open Finland up completely to both work and entrepreneurship. There are no more reasonable reasons for maintaining these restrictive activities. If we are in some sort of crisis at the hospitals, then there will be more resources. In various ways, people are invited to participate in these activities. But at the moment, the fact that Finland is being held in custody is completely unfounded and absurd for our national economy. So the best thing would be to open society as quickly as possible. I hope that the committee will have the courage to make changes to this proposal so that it can better serve this situation. As such a short tornado, it will not happen, although we all say here in one voice that it is a good one, yet the time span in which it stands is unhelpably short. Nor does it make sense to waste Parliament's resources on bringing such short-term laws here all the time for the second time.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u24	We have spent almost half an hour of what has been reserved at this stage, and at this point I will give the floor to Mr Sarkkinen for three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u25	Mr President! Restrictive measures are tough, but there's an epidemic situation. The restrictions are detrimental to livelihoods and people's livelihoods, and that is why the government has turned over a comprehensive package of support, including this proposal and the labour market support which Minister Haatainen will shortly present. The Government has considered that these proposed changes are most effective in responding to the urgent need for workers' income security in this situation. Companies are supported by, for example, cost support and non-reciprocal compensation. Then for this period of validity. None of us have a crystal ball so that we know how long restrictions are needed for this time. It is true that workers' organisations have hoped for a longer period of validity for this proposal. If national restrictive measures need to be continued after February, the need for further action in this proposal should be considered in good time and, if necessary, decisions taken on the follow-up. Mr President! Of course, validity is also an economic issue. As we know, this proposal then has its own article on the supplementary budget. Mr President! I think it is important for the government and Parliament to assess the doctrines and effects of the various interest rate exemptions — both this proposal and other exceptions that have been used along the way — and also from the point of view of whether they give rise to some justified need for change to permanent legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u26	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u27	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u28	Mr President! Indeed, there has already been a good deal of discussion about the amendment of the Unemployment Security Act and its effects. It is precisely the purpose of strengthening the status of laid-off and unemployed people, including entrepreneurs, for reasons of covid. Thank you to the ministers for that. The ministers have already left. I hope that, as has been the case here in the debate before, we will consider the limit of this deadline, namely whether this is too short for two months. Although the great thing is that this law is now being taken into force retrospectively, we really need to look forward to it. This is also an excellent thing, so to speak, to reduce red tape, and it also allows for a temporary adjustment of business income, i.e. to see how the entrepreneur himself declares his own income in it. Good things, and I am encouraging this matter to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u29	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u30	Madam President! This proposal, like the proposal for unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs, is welcome and necessary. It is a good thing that Parliament has met to address this issue in particular. I agree with the comments made in the previous debate, as did Mr Pirttilahti, who raised the point that the duration of the aid period could be longer. I hope that this request, which has been expressed very widely in the Chamber in committee, will be taken into account and the proposal will be clarified in this regard, so that we do not have to come back to the end of February to decide on this same issue if this pandemic continues. I am still a little disappointed that, on the other hand, the government does not promote or propose a rapid lay-off procedure in this proposal. I hope that the committee, in cooperation with the Minister, will also put in place an accelerated lay-off mechanism in this context, so that even this bill will be fully effective so that society will recover from the corona pandemic and those who are now suffering will then receive help.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u31	Congressman Östman is gone. — Representative Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u32	Mr President! I agree with Mr Kopra's point of view here. Since earlier the reduction in lay-offs was involved, it is probably good to consider this cooperation even better in committee as to how it would work in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u33	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — Debate, Minister Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u34	Mr President! Usually, a person employed as a full-time entrepreneur has the right to unemployment benefit in principle after the business activity has been completely discontinued. Following the start of this corona pandemic, the Unemployment Protection Act was temporarily amended in spring 2020 to allow the entrepreneur to receive labour market support if his full-time employment in the company had ended due to the pandemic. However, the beneficiary did not have to stop its business entirely in order to obtain the aid. This change was in force from March to April 2020 until the end of November 21. Well, the government is now proposing in this proposal that a similar amendment be made to the Unemployment Protection Act. Thus, the entrepreneur could once again receive labour market support without requiring the cessation of the whole business. The end of full-time work could be demonstrated by the fact that the income generated by business activities will not exceed EUR 1103 92 cents per month due to a pandemic. Compared to previous temporary changes, the income threshold would be adjusted by means of a pay coefficient to reflect the changes in other income limits laid down in the Unemployment Security Act. This change would allow labour market support to be paid for January and February of this year. Usually, receiving unemployment benefit requires that you have been a jobseeker at the Employment and Economic Development Office (TE Office). Since the law would now change retrospectively, this condition would be waived from the beginning of January to mid-February. It is good to remember that unemployment benefit is intended to provide income during unemployment, not in itself to support the continuation of business. This change will increase unemployment security expenditure by approximately EUR 12.2 million per month, i.e. total expenditure would increase by approximately EUR 24.4 million. It is estimated that municipalities will account for around EUR 9.8 million of this because of the so-called Kela fines for labour market support. If the number of entrepreneurs applying for labour market support now increases significantly compared to the previous one, then, of course, unemployment security expenditure will increase more than expected. This is a proposal and I would like to thank Parliament for meeting to deal with these proposals on unemployment benefit, which safeguard the livelihood of citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u35	Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u36	Madam President! If the previous performance was a good performance, then that is also the performance. This is also what small entrepreneurs need. This is now the seventh time that, in practice, the same government proposal will come back here again, there will be minor changes — the seventh time. I don't know if it'll get to Guinness' record book that the same bill will be put into practice over and over again. [TimoHeinonenarvous] At first, these were made in three months. We've moved on to two months. We know that even if it makes the pandemic easier, there will be small entrepreneurs there, who, with debt money and their own savings, have worked and kept the company up even though there has been no income. Even if the doors could be opened more widely in gyms and small cafes, there may not be customers there. It quickly goes down, so there is a need for the entrepreneur to support it if you become unemployed even after this pandemic, which is, however, the impact of this pandemic. This is not about corporate aid, even if this continues. This is a pandemic aid — at least, in my opinion. Then, as Mr Sarkkinen said at the last point, there is an economic issue here too, but there is no saving in this kind of thing when it comes to jobs, who are going to be unemployed, or small entrepreneurs, who are going to be unemployed because of this pandemic, once again there is enough money in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u37	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u38	Madam President! It is easy to agree with the opposition's views that the proposal is good and worthy of support. In this respect, we can of course begin to think about what we could do for the future. I am no constitutional expert, but as far as these measures on unemployment benefits take place, as approved by the Government and Parliament — or it has been said that we have such a pandemic, which causes difficulties in business and also in the employment sector — I would nevertheless wonder, in the direction of the Government, whether it would be possible to ask the Constitutional Committee or constitutional experts in such a situation whether such situations could be authorised by law, because at that stage, if it is now thoroughly investigated, this is precisely because of the pandemic and the measures taken to close business, it could be considered that the Constitution would not be an obstacle. Mr Lehto: I agree with much of this, but at that point, if the decline in the pandemic makes it possible for business to continue, I would reasonably think that unemployment benefits could then be paid. Then, however, our publishing sector is a different matter, there is support for companies. Perhaps it is worth considering as crystal clear what this is all about when it comes to the problems of doing work. With these comments I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation. Let us hope that this will be achieved as soon as possible. If I understood correctly, was it true that this February for this application was not exactly precise so that compensation could be applied for after February?
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u39	Congressman Talvitie's gone. — Mr Marttinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u40	Madam President! I am pleased to welcome this government proposal to extend the right to unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs until the end of February. Of course he got to visit this kind of small intermission, because this legislation expired at the end of November. However, when we know that the corona crisis is still going on and many small entrepreneurs and many entrepreneurs have been in a very difficult situation, it is of course quite clear that no entrepreneur who wants to support himself with his own work and risk-taking will, of course, go and apply for unemployment benefit as a last resort to be able to cope with this crisis. And that is why I think it is important and necessary that this legislation be taken forward and that this right is now being upheld. Madam Speaker! Now that the Minister is here, I would also like to point out that, since this legislation expired at the end of November and is now again at the end of January and this legislation is being re-examined, I would like to ask the Minister: how do you justify this period of validity, that this would only be in force until the end of February, that it will not happen again, as if it were just a matter of time, and then this will only be in force for a moment? However, we do not yet know where this epidemic is going. So how do you justify this period of validity? I would see for myself that there are grounds here for introducing this law into force for a longer period of time, so that Parliament does not have to go through this all the time either. But I believe, Madam President, that there is broad agreement on this issue in this Chamber. It is important to help entrepreneurs overcome this crisis, and I am very happy to support this proposal in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u41	Congressman Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u42	Mr President! This is a good place to go. — It is clear that this proposal is needed and that this issue has been necessary throughout this period of interest, especially for those self-employed who are either prevented or significantly hampered by the presence of interest and interest rate restrictions. In that sense, this is justified. There have already been quite good speeches in this Chamber. That is where Mr Lehto said that this is going to record a record, for this is now the seventh time in the debate, and I have to say that I think this is also going to record that quite a few times now the government's proposal has been directly opposed by the opposition, which is quite something too, of course. After all, the opposition has constantly proposed this longer, because we have always thought that it has not been justified so quickly to drive it down. Although this is, of course, an exceptional arrangement, the existence of which I do not support myself in the normal period, it is not justified to push it down so quickly. This same debate will then take place again tomorrow in committee, and I would see that at least now this spring period should be viewed calmly. I am sure that the entrepreneur will only apply for labour market support when he really needs it, but this is a very important thing in that way, yes — and the reasons have already been explained here — that there are quite a few people who need it: according to this proposal, in October 2021, there were 18200 of these recipients of labour market support, which means that this is a very large number of people who are concerned. It is a good thing that this is going to open up again now, but it would be good if we could go a little further, and I would like to renew Mr Marttinen's question: on what basis has this deadline now only been set until the end of February?
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u43	Congressman Pirttator's gone. — Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u44	Mr President! Many good speeches have now been made here, and everyone is focusing on the short term duration of this bill. As has been said, this is the seventh time this law has been dealt with here. I refer to my previous speech on the previous law, where I said that the use of Parliament's resources in this way makes no sense and no longer makes any sense to explain why this is being done so short-term. So, when Parliament here quite clearly signals both opposition and government parties that this could be longer, could the next motion be in such a way that it would be within some of the deadlines that would be further away? Mr Myllykoski made a good speech on this possibility of regulation. We have also made forward-looking legislation on other issues for specific situations. This could also be of a kind that could then be guided, as appropriate, by a Government decree. Yes, I believe that the Ministry has the understanding and the skill to bring such a proposal here if the government only wishes — that is what it would like. And once again, I hope that the committee will have the courage to make a report that will change these time limits. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u45	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u46	Madam President! This is a good presentation, as has been repeated many times, but if you will allow me, I would ask the Minister. Minister, there are quite a lot of similar proposals here, and when we ourselves close the possibilities for small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in general to do their work, it is good that we compensate as much as we can. Now we are living in a pandemic where these small entrepreneurs are really tired, extremely tired. I would like to ask what kind of discussion you have had with other ministers about what other support might be offered to these entrepreneurs now, so that their mental state, mental health, well-being is even more emphasised here, and they would not continue to be at our mercy when the premises are closed, when companies cannot do their work and what kinds of subsidies can be applied for and where to apply. It's very stressful in itself, isn't it? How do we look at this whole thing? Do we have a plan for how we can support these entrepreneurs far forward so that they can continue to try in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u47	Congressman Hyrkko.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u48	Mr President! The proposal for a continuation of unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs is very welcome, expected and necessary. This corona period has shown the hole in our safety nets in the midst of the crisis, and I thought it might be worth drawing a few conclusions from it. Firstly, we should be better prepared for future crises, including social security. For example, basic income would reduce the need for this type of patch solutions in the next possible and, of course, very undesirable crises that this nation of ours is facing. Secondly, on several occasions we have actually learned from the hard way that the duration of the corona crisis is very difficult to anticipate. The preparation of such more sustainable and, in some cases, more effective solutions should not be delayed or neglected simply because we are in a sense hoping that this crisis will soon end. The same applies, of course, to the duration of these proposals and legislation and to the patchwork of this kind, as many other Members have pointed out here. One example of this is also to support the cultural and event sector. In the spring, we achieved a package of support that really came in need, which took account of the freelancers who had previously intervened, but it was already clear at the time that there were a lot of problems in steering and targeting the subsidies, and that model, in the form of a grant, did not fully hit the target. Well, now that the crisis has been prolonged, cultural operators have been hit quite hard again. They're really tired. They're all over. Support is needed, and the government must learn lessons from the past, so that no one is left empty and that they are allocated fairly. This is a matter of great urgency, and the industry's confidence in us decision-makers is under great strain. We've got to do better than that. At the same time, we also need to constantly weigh down what restrictions are necessary, what are proportionate. In the interests of such certainty, we cannot go into restricting ourselves when it comes to the freedoms of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u49	Congressman Laakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u50	Madam President! Like the previous government proposal, this government proposal is certainly to be welcomed. But the real problem here is that what makes it so short-term even if it could be imposed for a longer period. Of course, I understand that government parties may not always be so in favour of entrepreneurs, but they do turn towards the centre. Hopefully, we could take a ball from this in the centre, even if Mr Ovaska showed some muscle in the government, and we could extend this a little further than a few weeks ahead. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u51	Congressman Kopra.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u52	Madam President! This is indeed a necessary and good proposal, and it is good that the Minister has brought it here. When it has not yet been said out loud on this part of the Chamber, I also say that I think it was the right thing to do in the Presidency to call a Parliament meeting in particular to deal with these issues in the middle of a break. It will speed up this process. We have unemployed and entrepreneurs all over Finland who really need these decisions, what we are doing here. The point of view of this proposal is that it is the small entrepreneurs for whom it is the last resort who need this unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs. In the case where they need it, it is likely that the alternative will be bankruptcy or the putting down of cups or something like that. And that would be the worst option for Finland, so hopefully this will prevent business closures. For if it were to happen that we would have massive companies shut down, it will take us even longer to get out of the corona, because there will be no new entrepreneurs. If entrepreneurs get discouraged in the corona and put their cups down, they may not start trying again immediately, and so on. In other words, every effort must be made to keep companies standing — even by artificial respiration — so that a rise in the interest rate is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u53	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u54	Madam President! This is a good proposal, and it seems to me that the government likes to hear praise from the opposition, since this is the seventh time that this proposal has been brought here for debate. Mr Marttinen and Mr Satonen made a suggestion about this in good time that this should be introduced when the situation got worse a very long time ago, and it is only now that Parliament, with the President's decision, must be called upon to deal with this urgently. The President's solution is absolutely right, but this matter could have been dealt with already in December, Minister, when it was clear that this situation was going to get worse. This applies to the right to unemployment security for entrepreneurs without having to stop the business, and, as has been pointed out in this debate, this proposal has already been dealt with seven times in Parliament and is being employed in Parliament, the employment of parliamentary officials, the administrative machinery and committees, and once again the opposition is likely to make that dissenting opinion, which states that until the end of February is far too short a time to keep this legislation in place. I hope that the minister will allow the representatives of the government parties to support the opposition's proposal in committee, so that it will be extended, at the very least, throughout the spring. There has also been talk here about whether it could be a smoother, more agile introduction. You'd have to think about that in situations like this. Even now there have been situations where this has not been necessary, but seven times have already been needed and probably even eight times will be needed. The representative of the Social Democrats, Mr Al-Taee, asked whether the government had thought about what could be done to cope with entrepreneurs. Representative al-Taee, let the entrepreneurs work. That's what they need, and that's what they can do. Now they are most burdened with unjust and unreasonable restrictions. In my previous speech, I spoke, for example, about restricting physical activity. Tennis hall, where you play between 10 meters, between the network: Where else is there such good safety distances? That's not gonna happen. Or gyms, where it has also been internationally established that the corona in these environments does not spread in a responsible manner. So let it be done. Mr Hyrkko, you Greens always speak beautifully about the cultural sector, but you are taking these measures which are quite unfairly directed at it. You said that, in the interests of certainty, restrictions should not be imposed, but you have. You've started the gym. . . [The President knocks ] — — — — I'll be with you, Speaker, for a moment. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u55	Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u56	Madam President! I would also like to remind you that these regional restrictions exist, not everything has come from the government, and Mrs Heinonen has raised these problems very well. Yes, I also agree that the best support is for these companies to open their doors, for restaurants to be open at 10 a.m., for people to have access to cultural events, and this situation in the gyms is the decision of the openings here in Helsinki. I come from Tampere, where the gyms are open, but here they are closed. We're about to have a whole country full of professional trainers when you look at that number of applicants for licenses on the news. That these can be circumvented, but we must find those solutions, as has been said in previous speeches. Europe is opening its doors, and then there are various measures to ensure that safety is kept. That this legislation, which is now on the table, is very necessary, but the big solutions and means are being made in those areas but also by the government, so now we have to look at the feedback and experience that has also been given from the direction of THL, how best to support it to entrepreneurs. Let them try.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u57	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u58	Madam President! Interesting exchange of views, but just one basic thing: for Mr Laakso, if my child has got his clothes on and his food on the table, you can certainly know that I appreciate entrepreneurship when I have been able to support my family with my paid work. The second thing that should be discussed here — although not directly related to this — is that it is excellent that this particular government proposal does not require a complete shutdown, and that is what we should think about even more in the future, because in such a situation as this, where the income of entrepreneurs is now decreasing, their earnings-related daily allowance or the basis for calculating the daily allowance is slightly distorted. In other words, when you have done well, you have paid more unemployment insurance contributions, but when you start to lose your activity, you will be paid the daily allowance instead of the whole increase that would be fair: that is, what you have paid would be paid for it. This has been omitted from this debate, and I strongly believe that this government should also consider whether this would be one... — — — — I am not going to add a daily allowance to the current debate, but the fact that what we can say is that the company has now been temporarily reduced because of a certain economic situation, so that there are no job opportunities, but that there is no need to sell the machinery and equipment, so to speak, to put an end to the whole operation, but that the conditions for a new start will continue to be better.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u59	We have spent almost half an hour at this stage, and now I will give Mr Haatainen the floor. — Minister Haatainen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u60	Mr President! Thank you all for the debate, and thank you all for coming here to decide on this matter. After all, this omicron is an invisible enemy that does not really say what it is intended to do, and the way this has dealt with companies is currently being seen, especially in the service sector. After all, when this pandemic started, for a variety of reasons the whole world economy was paralysed, and it was reflected in the whole wide business field, but now we see that many companies have started well and that the machines are full and labour shortages are being talked about, but in the services sector, as has just been mentioned here in the Chamber, this situation is showing up, and there are many entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs who are now being supported by this solution. I am sorry that we cannot anticipate this situation. The reason why this has now been brought into this timetable, i.e. in January and February: This is still the case, therefore, without the closure of the company, for the benefit of labour market support, and why it has been done so, so that this is intended to provide temporary support for the entrepreneur in order to secure his livelihood, but it is not intended to support the company's activities. How companies are supported — Mr Al-Taee asked about it — is a separate package being prepared and coming under the responsibility of Minister Lintilän, a colleague of mine, with cost support and non-refoulement. These are coming and are then intended to support the operating conditions of these companies. So it's a good thing that this difference makes sense. Representative Myllykoski asked about this application: Which means you can apply retrospectively from January. By mid - February, when you register, you will receive it retrospectively from January. I really hope that we can open up. Now, in this situation, the government is monitoring this situation every week in the manner in which different measures are taken, and of course the government's objective is to open up as soon as the situation allows. Here we rely solely on the health authorities and on the assessments of the progress of this disease from the world. This proposal is now here, and it may be that we will have to make another one, but I would like us not to have to do so, because that would mean that we would have been able to open up society and companies would be able to operate as normal as possible and customers would have to use the services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u61	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u62	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. — — — — Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u63	Mr President! An excellent debate was held on this matter. It is very good to have a temporary right to unemployment security for entrepreneurs so that the entrepreneur does not have to stop doing so in order to be covered by this unemployment benefit. In the course of the debate, an excellent point was raised by Mrs Myllykoski and slightly broadened the thought that it would be necessary to reflect more on the position of entrepreneurs and, in particular, the position of small entrepreneurs. We have a lot of small businesses in Finland that work below the poverty line. They have not been asking for unemployment benefit; they have not really been asking for anything from society, but have done it from their own heart; they are now saying craftsmen, freelancers, many other types of business. We should also consider how their unemployment benefit is, but also how their pension cover will accumulate in these small businesses during their work. So this is an excellent opening in addition to this excellent bill itself. And now that we are moving a little further, I will also raise the same point in this law: is this expiry date really exact, or can it be extended a little further? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u64	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. — Debate, Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Presidents is proposing a temporary amendment to the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is clearly linked to the corona, because it is precisely during this year that we want to prepare for the parliamentary assembly at a distance. It has also been suggested that the votes in plenary sessions take place at a distance, because there is a particularly serious and very widespread infectious disease. So far, everyone in this Chamber should have realised that this is not the case. The explanatory memorandum of the proposal gives a completely distorted picture of the interest rate. Statistics Finland published the causes of death in 2020 now in December 2021, and the title of the publication was as follows: ‘For the causes of death there are no major changes compared to the previous year. “ So there's no big change in the causes of death compared to the year before. The same situation has continued in 2021: there has been nothing alarming about the causes of death or, for example, the load of intensive care. I would like to ask where the Council of Presidents has actually lived in writing the proposal. The justification for teleworking is not based on reality. I do not know if you, ladies and gentlemen, want to watch porn on your home computer while voting.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u68	Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2022-01-24-ps-163.u69	Madam President! I would also like to use this speech in the parliamentary minutes for history, in fact, because that speech used above does not remain the only one on this point. In my opinion, it is an excellent solution for the Council of Presidents to take measures to ensure that our Parliament is able to function in a difficult situation too. We are in a different situation than we were in when Parliament was transferred to Kauhajoki, for example. Now we have an invisible enemy who can challenge in a big way, and we must be prepared to act even in that situation. I am sure that only the necessary measures would be taken in that situation, for which this temporary amendment of the Rules of Procedure is being made. It is true that we must also think further about this situation and consider ways in which, in all situations, we will be able to ensure that our decision-making capacity is maintained for all problems, challenges and threats, internal or external, health or even military. This is a whole new challenge to our entire system. Yesterday, in the regional elections, we saw that some of the cities had to make decisions very quickly to ensure that the elections were carried out, and it is not far from the situation that there may be so much infection, exposure and so on in this house that we also have to resort to these methods, which the Council of Presidents has now put forward. Mr President, I think it is well founded that this proposal has been brought and that we are prepared for different situations, even though the common objective is that these decisions can be taken normally in this Chamber.
