ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Hello and have a nice work week for us! We will begin the Monday session of the 16th plenary session of the 7th plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please! That's not what you want. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U2	77 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Let's start a review of the agenda. But before that, we need to confirm the agenda, so... Mr. Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U3	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U4	I'm sorry for a moment! Ladies and gentlemen, let's try a little quieter, Mr Hardy has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U5	Thank you. I have a question about our agenda. We have two good drafts on the agenda this week, one better than the other. Namely, today's agenda includes item No 1 619 and our weekly agenda concludes even better, which is the draft family benefits submitted by the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid. They're very similar. I have a question: why are these drafts not on the agenda one after the other, or why is our draft 560, which has been introduced a piece of land earlier than [the draft] 619 already on 22 March, not right here after the draft 619? I think that would make more sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U6	Yeah, thanks! The Commission's proposals will reach the Bureau and the Bureau will draw up the agenda on this basis. Consequently, this proposal came from the Commission, is my initial understanding, but we are reviewing what the Commission said. So it is the commission that proposes to the Bureau how to plan these days. Paul Woodland.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U7	Thank you very much. I have this question that we have two drafts here: one is 511, the other is reading, and the other is 572, and the second is reading. In the case of the first draft, members of the Riigikogu are allowed to speak; in the case of the second, this is not allowed. Why the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U8	How do you know that one is allowed and the other is not allowed? Both are other readings, which means that you have the same right to speak. [[A voice from the hall.]] I don't know what you're looking at. I look at the agenda, there is nothing on the agenda about who can speak. This is still the way the Rules of Procedure provide for. Mr. Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U9	Thank you. Yes, it is true that the Commission is proposing this, but the Bureau also has its little competence in the matter. So I am still asking that, since this draft of children's benefits initiated by us, the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid, is the last item on Thursday, it is reasonable that these two drafts, 619 and 560, should be added together. However, since [in the draft] 619 as we know today when the first reading is closed, the deadline for amendments is already tomorrow or the day after, and the Commission is likely to discuss it earlier than the draft children's allowance for the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U11	... then the question is that it is not possible to add them purely physically. For this reason, it would be more reasonable for the board to move the 560 forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U12	Thank you. Good Kalvi, indeed, we have reviewed, the Commission's proposal was to discuss your draft on 2 June. As regards whether they could be merged, this can be decided by the Commission and regardless of the deadline for amendments. If the deadline for amendments is one tomorrow and the other ten days, then the Commission may calmly meet tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, rather then meet the day after tomorrow and say that they are similar drafts, we will also wait for the deadline for amendments to the second draft, and then these drafts will be merged, for example. So, in this sense, the Commission does not have any restrictions on merging these drafts. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U13	Thank you very much. In fact, the Social Democrats submitted, as has already been said, their draft in March. And when we discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs this draft to increase Socialist child support, that is to say to raise the support of the first and second children to EUR 100, the Centre Party had not yet come up with its draft, say, with this proposal. It is now the case that our draft, which we discussed earlier in the Commission, is behind us, and this draft, which suddenly came to this Riigikogu, is ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U14	Yeah. As I said, it was the Commission's proposal, and eventually the Social Democrats can decide whether or not they will support this draft that we are discussing today. If they choose not to support and support their own draft on Thursday, then in that sense you have the opportunity to do so. But I really don't want to waste any more time on this. We actually have the opportunity to confirm the agenda as it is proposed. It is clear that the political groups can also draw their members' attention to the fact that, for example, such drafts could be together and that the Commission could also take these decisions. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U15	I'd still like to understand that logic. The draft, which has been put forward in March and discussed in the Commission even before the next draft was put into procedure, and in the large Chamber they are in reverse order and with several days apart. Does the board have any discretion at all to see this illogical setting, to intervene and to make things logical by putting things on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U16	The Bureau shall draw on the input received from the committees. When the committees ask for one day or another, we usually follow the Commission's request. In very rare cases, when the day is either overloaded or there is another reason, we have contacted the Commission again and asked, for example, to change that date. So, as a rule, we are still proceeding from the input of the committees, and from its surface we are drawing up a agenda for a large Chamber. Okay, no more procedural questions. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 16th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a position... [[Voice in the hall.]] Need a call sign? I feel like we're all in the hall and no one's gone out. Or there's a feeling that... [[Voice in the hall.]] Some are missing, but I believe that these members of the group all know, and everyone has heard right now, so if you agree that we will go without a call, then... Very good! Then again. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 16th working week of the VII plenary session. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U17	Despite some excitement, the agenda is confirmed by 65 in favour and 17 against.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U18	Let's get to work. So, ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu. The aim of the Act is to support families with Estonian children and promote birth rates. The bill raises the first and second children's allowance from EUR 60 to EUR 100, i.e. the same level as the third and more children's allowance, and the child allowance for all children will be equal to EUR 100 per month. The draft raises the allowance to 700 euros per month for families of between three and six children instead of 300 euros and for families of seven and more children to 900 euros per month instead of 400 euros. At this point, I would also like to mention right away that this increase in family allowances for families with children has two aims, which must not be confused and which is not right to contrast. Raising children's benefits since the first child of the family is primarily economic and social aid, social support, which gives families the opportunity to cope better. Family allowance for families with third or more children is a long-term targeted measure aimed at promoting, in addition to economic aid, an increase in the birth rate. Of course, any child benefit and family allowance will help to increase the economic security of families, and this will certainly also have a positive impact on the birth rate. In order to ensure that the allowance for a family of children continues to be proportionate to the increase in the standard of living and that the amount of the allowance should not be changed annually, the allowance shall be indexed to an index by 1 April of each calendar year. It is an index that at the same time indexes existing pensions. Support for a family rich in children is not indexed if the value of the index is less than 1, which means that if the standard of living falls, the allowance for a family rich in children will not be reduced. This is similar to the pensions currently in force. The draft amends the system of ending the allowance for a family rich in children, according to which the allowance for a family rich in children will start to decrease when the three youngest minors of the family reach their adult age. Instead of the current system, where support for a child-rich family disappeared when the first child reached the age of adulthood, the full allowance for a child-rich family will be paid as long as at least three underage children are raised in the family. If the family has a total of three or more children, but only two of them are underage, or the third child becomes an adult, the allowance for a family rich in children will be reduced proportionally by one third. If there is one minor child in a family rich in children, one third of the family allowance would remain in support. But I'll add right here that the initiators have been discussing with each other since the bill was submitted. To clarify this, I would like to add immediately that we understand the word 'full age' in the sense of the current law and between the first and second reading through the amendment, certainly we will also make this amendment, so that this definition is the same as that in the current law. Perhaps this allowance ends at the age of 16 or at the age of 19, if he or she is studying, or at the end of the academic year, as is the case with the law in force. There will be no fundamental change here, let it be announced in advance to avoid future questions. The system for reducing support for a family rich in children is being changed. So far, child-rich family benefits have been paid until the first child of the family reaches the age of 19 years or the end of school age, now one third, one third and one third respectively. The changes to the draft increase the economic well-being and confidence of families with children in Estonia to cope with the changing standard of living. Estonia's population is in decline and as the mortality rate has increased, while the birth rate has remained the same in previous years, it is understandable to all of us that the demographic situation in Estonia is very serious and critical. The average number of children in the Estonian family is 1.84 at the moment, but in order for the growth to turn positive, the average number of children in the family should be 2.07. Thus, raising the birth rate must be one of the priorities of the Estonian state, and that is what it is about with our own approved development plans, including "Estonia 2035" one of the goals is to raise and influence the birth rate in a positive direction. A number of specific studies have been carried out in Estonia and abroad to map the factors influencing the birth, and the link between the family's economic livelihood and the family's intention to be born is clear. Economic uncertainty also increases family uncertainty and has a direct relation to the birth rate of Estonia. Family policy financial support reduces the risk that the economic coping of parents and other children will deteriorate with the birth of children, and the benefits will ensure a higher birth rate in Estonia. The draft does not introduce new terms. The financial implications of the law have been discussed and discussed very much since the draft was submitted here. The cost of the law in 2023, if it were to be implemented in the proposed form, would be EUR 241 million, and less than the cost, because the indirect impact of the money entering into circulation on the state budget has not yet been taken into account. So it's rather less than 241 million, but 241 million is estimated by the Ministry of Finance, so let's stick to that number and let's not round 240 million into 300 million. This is neither mathematically nor fundamentally correct. It wouldn't make any sense to handle money with such a broad hand. The date of entry into force of the Act is indicated on 1 February 2023 and this date has been deliberately chosen to allow longer time for the implementation of the Act to be technically prepared for the implementation of the Act. This concerns the IT system and the readiness of the relevant authorities to implement the law. Now there's funding. It has still been asked whether this is the right time to adopt this law when, in the autumn, the state budget and the state budget strategy are being discussed, so that it is reasonable to discuss and adopt this draft together with the state budget and the state budget strategy. Well, that's not right. The better the sooner, the better to have more time to prepare. As the Minister for Social Protection has said, even when we are adopting it now, it is quite tense to get ready with the preparations. If we push it into autumn, then, of course, the implementation of the law must also be pushed further into the future. Secondly, it makes sense to act as the current government has done. A long time ago, the exceptional increase in the base of the pension and the exemption from the income tax on the average pension, which was not provided for in the state budget or in the state budget strategy when we adopted it, have been adopted. But it was absolutely necessary and the Riigikogu supported it, left it for a long time for the government to prepare that if the state's budget strategy and the state budget for the following year were to be discussed already in the summer, it would be known which financial obligations under the law and which obligations have been adopted by Parliament. After all, the government coalition did the same with national defence expenditure, which was also very right. More than EUR 800 million has been approved by the government, as we know, for additional expenditure on national defence, which, given the current situation, is also a very correct decision, but which has been made early and will be sought out in the discussions on the state budget strategy and in the discussions on the state budget. So it is wise to act on a priority that is no less important. There is no contrast between pensions and child benefits. It is not right to contrast pensions and child benefits! What do child benefits come from? This is a question of priorities. This is a question of the priorities of the Estonian state. We might also ask, " What did the increases in teachers' salaries come from last time? ' Well, what did they come at? But, of course, at the expense of the state budget priorities. So if there are priorities, the increase in the state budget, which last year was significantly higher in the form of tax receipts than was forecast, which has been significantly higher in the first quarter of this year than was forecast, and we hope that the Estonian economy will recover and continue to grow. And the choices between the priorities for growth must be made in every situation and every financial year, whether it be a good year of growth or these difficult years of economic crisis. Where to cut, where not to cut, this is a question of priorities. It has also been criticised that then taxes must be raised. We know that political parties have very different views on tax policy. One source really is the tax increase. And since I represent the initiators here, I can't represent the Fatherland Party alone or myself as one of the initiators. Of course, these questions must also be clarified. But in the long term, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite the opposite. If we have a situation today that we have a little over 13000 children a year and about 20,000 people reach retirement age, in the long term this means that taxpayers will be reduced to a dependant position. Perhaps this means that if we cannot increase the birth rate in Estonia and if we cannot achieve this goal of having more children in Estonia, so that in future we have more workers, taxpayers, on the contrary, by not making these decisions today, we must certainly increase taxes in the long term or the tax burden on one working person, the taxpayer, will certainly increase. So the situation is actually the opposite if we look a little further. Therefore, I dare say that family allowances, as such, should be seen as an investment in the long term, rather than simply an annoying expense in the state budget. In addition, support for families with children's wealth, is it proportionate, is it equal treatment? Yes, we all may feel different aspects of social life differently, and we also understand equality and equal treatment and proportionality differently. But, in my deepest understanding, this is a political decision, a political choice that Parliament must make, what politicians must do. § 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states: "Children's families are under the special care of the state and local governments. " With this draft, we are embracing this section of the Constitution, which, in fact, before the introduction of family benefits in Estonia was completely unfledged, and I would say that our family policy was in conflict with the Estonian constitution in this sense. So today, we will include Article 28 of this Constitution, which I repeat to you, which says that families rich in children are under the special care of the state and local government. And what is the expression of this special care? I guess it's national politics that gives confidence to families with children. So, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this bill. If there are constructive proposals to make this draft even better, more precise, then all these proposals are welcome. As I said, one amendment has already been negotiated by the initiators themselves and will certainly be tabled. If there are other good proposals, they are welcome, and I very much hope for a meaningful debate and that this bill will become a cross-party draft of the Riigikogu, just as we have taken decisions in this Chamber concerning pensions that I spoke about earlier, and just as there has been a majority consensus on defence issues, be it a coalition or opposition initiative, but in the Riigikogu it has mostly found broad-based support. And I very much hope that also on this initiative, which has already been initiated by more than half of the Riigikogu and where consensus has been found over the boundaries of the coalition-opposition, which is a good example of parliamentary culture, at least on the side of this draft initiative, that we will also complete this good initiative and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U20	Let's get to the questions. Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U21	Thank you, Mr President. I'm forced to pretend I don't understand why this bill is so urgent right now. That is why I want to ask you a question about the sources of cover you were talking about, you went over on the volcano and nothing came from there. And my question: shouldn't the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example, of taking the money to introduce such a big change, be next to discussing such a big and important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U22	Thank you. In my introductory presentation, however, I also mentioned the sources of financial cover that this is a matter of priorities. Just as you, a good colleague, waved, I wave back, voted in favour of raising pensions without defining the sources of financial cover. And it was a very good and right decision. I, too, supported this without the government providing a source of cover for it. Just as we voted together on increasing national defence spending, we supported these proposals without mentioning the sources of cover, so is this priority. And why now, I also explained this: that it would be known to the government early on. The sooner, the longer the national budget strategy will be for debate, analysis and implementation of this draft. However, as far as the Committee on Monetary Affairs is concerned, I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has had the authority to discuss this draft in the same way. After all, only one commission is appointed as the commission, which is the result of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, but nothing prevents the Committee on Monetary Affairs from discussing it and providing input. So the Committee on Monetary Affairs may also, after first reading, wish to do so and will, I believe, certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U23	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Children's families in difficult times must be supported, and I think no one is against that. Estonia is known to live in the most severe poverty, relative poverty and absolute poverty, single parents. 37.5% of single parents live in relative poverty and 6.7% live in absolute poverty. At the same time, families with one, two, three or more children live in relative poverty of 10 to 13% and in absolute poverty of 1.2 to 2.7%. One of the objectives of the draft is that families must be supported economically. But single-parent families, who today are in the greatest poverty and are living at the greatest risk of poverty, you have excluded from this bill. Why do you think that EUR 19,18 is enough for them and do not consider it necessary to increase the support for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U25	Yes, indeed, this support of single parents is, in my opinion, of its size and in my opinion. Today, a single parent [child] receives EUR 100 child benefit, like all other children, and in addition, the single parent allowance is EUR 19, with a total of EUR 119. This EUR 19 really is a small amount. But it's a question and a place where we all have to look in the mirror. This EUR 19 has been converted from the time of the crown, and no government that has ruled after the period of the crown has, for one reason or another, considered it necessary or possible to increase this support of a single parent, including the government currently in office. We will be able to do so during this draft procedure. As I said, if there are good proposals, it is certainly one issue that can be discussed and amended in the course of the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U26	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U27	Thank you. Good waitress! There have already been two questioners who have one of the biggest concerns in your presentation, in the same way, where the real cover comes from, where money is actually found to make this 240+ million. You yourself have given some examples, such as the increase in teachers' salaries, which has been repeated, severalty times at the moment, the lower amounts in the coming years. The statesmen are still expected to have a comprehensive national picture, a vision of how we will further develop society. Yes, of course, children and families must be supported, but children, above all, need a high-quality service, it is education, it is an education of interest. If it is not possible for us to raise teachers' salaries because we are shutting down the expenditure and investments of the Estonian state for a long time, how do you see what these real solutions are? Do you really support tax increases? What tax increases do you support for these costs? Or do you really think that fixed costs can be financed from a loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U28	Thank you. Personally, I do not support tax increases. I also see no need for tax increases in Estonia now and even less for tax increases in the framework of this draft. And I do not agree at all with the contrast that has been made in this debate earlier, that at what expense it comes, either at the expense of the salaries of the rescuers-police officers or at the expense of teachers' salaries or at the expense of something else. No, you're not. Just as pensions do not come at the expense of children's benefits, children's benefits do not come at the expense of pensions. And if we continue to have money and have priority over dealing with older people, then we must also have priority over families, children and families. It's very important, it's our future. I would rather, yes, even treat it as an investment, even an investment, a long-term investment. As regards measures to increase the birth rate, if we want and can influence such a difficult area as birth rate with political and economic levers at all, it is certainly a long-term process, and I do not at all rule out that it makes sense to use even a loan for this in certain periods. I dare say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U29	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U30	Thank you. The first time the birth rate started to increase in Estonia was when we came out with parental benefit, so it has not been your favour at all. But you just filed a draft of family benefits. The cost of the budget is, at the beginning I thought it was 300, now you are saying that about 240.250 million euros. In fact, we know that if such drafts are drawn up, the cover will be shown. In practice, there must always be a source of cover, which has not actually been covered in this draft. I have this feeling that your hidden goal is tax increases to increase the revenue of the state. Perhaps you will also publicly state which taxes you intend to raise precisely to increase the revenue of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U31	Thank you. I just answered that question. You may be late with your prepared question. Then I repeat: no, the source of the cover does not have to be included in the bill. The draft has to highlight the impact on the state budget. So if one or the other draft is submitted, there is no need to identify a specific source of coverage within the meaning of the state budget line. And the impact on the state budget is set out here, in a four-year perspective, in full respect, just as good legislative practice provides for us. But now this assessment, as if we were trying or I were now trying here with this bill for the first time, to influence the birth rate positively. No, I didn't say that, and I don't think so. Very much has been done in Estonia for family policy, and the Isamaa Party, of course, here too, I dare say as a flagship. But I agree with you on parental benefit. I'm reading Praxis's assessment, and here we have the same understanding. The results of the study suggest that parental benefit has had a significant impact on women's birth rate behaviour. Since the introduction of the benefit, the likelihood of women with higher education and higher incomes in particular has increased and it can be expected that this is a development which has been greatly boosted by parental benefits. As a distinct development, parental benefits have motivated women on higher pay to give birth to their second and third children, and people have started to plan their birth more consciously. So it has had its positive impact, and for all those who say that it is not possible to influence birth rates with policies, with economic levers, with various benefits and benefits, and in this case, with changes in the law on family benefits, we want to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U32	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Here in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the average number of children in the family in Estonia is currently 1.84, but now that this bill is somehow realised, there may be a situation that the number of children in the family will increase to 2.07. This time has not been given here. That is why the first question concerns what year this could happen if this draft were to be carried out in this form. And the second question is that you said you didn't even rule out borrowing. Do the same children who are now born under this bill, in theory, are they going to have to pay back this loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U34	Thank you. The first question, you have now interpreted a little bit that the specific objective of this draft is to reach 2.07 immediately, and you ask me for a time definition. It is said here that in order for the ive to turn positive, the average number of children should be 2.07. I think we may not be alone with this bill to achieve this goal now. Family policy is still a whole and embraces the different policies of society as a whole, social policy, economic policy, education policy, health care and much more. So with this bill, we do not now expect us to reach this figure in three, five or seven years' time. But that should be our common long-term goal, though. And to that we are suggesting that this is one step in this direction. Now, about your second question, it was taking a loan to pay back the loan. The loan will still be repaid by taxpayers. But as always with investments, if you fail to make an investment in time, you will also lose your income. So we need to invest in the right time in these very children, future children, these are kindergarten places, it is education, it is an education of interest. If we have children who will be working hands, taxpayers, keepers and communicators of Estonian language and culture in the future, that is the benefit. A wise and educated nation will surely be able to manage wisely and repay the loans taken. But if we fail to make these investments today, the children will not be born. All surveys show that on average parents in Estonia also want more children than they actually have in families. And this bill contributes to the fulfillment of their wishes and dreams, so that for economic reasons children are not born. So this investment will certainly pay off in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U35	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U36	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The Social Democrats have submitted a bill to the Riigikogu weeks ago to raise the support of the first and second children to EUR 100 already this year. We have also submitted a draft which provides for raising the allowance for a single parent child in such a way that, in addition to normal child benefit, he will receive a second allowance: if today there is a child allowance of EUR 60, it would be EUR 120, and if the child allowance for the first child increases, it would be EUR 200. My question to you is that I have heard that the Fatherland does not support this proposal, that if we now propose to increase the support of a single parent child in the draft, will you support this proposal? And if you do not support it, please explain why you have a negative view of single parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U37	Thank you. I cannot represent the Fatherland here today, I represent the Fatherland and myself as much as I represent you and the Social Democrats as one of the initiators of this draft. But I can tell you that I think it would make sense to reconcile at least these two drafts and to deal with them together, [this], which has been submitted by the Social Democrats, and [this], which has been initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu. Their aim is common, and as I said earlier, as regards the single parent issue, it is a place that we can discuss and amendments can make changes in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U39	Good manager! Dear waitress, When Kaja Kallas' government came to power, the first thing he did was liquidate the seat of the Minister of Population and the problem committee for the population. And my question to you is, is it a coincidence that the same company is panicking about raising child benefits right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U40	Thank you. I think losing the position of Minister of Population is no accident. I believe that it was still a conscious and thoughtful act of forming a government coalition, not some random thought. What somebody's reading out of this is already a matter of its own. But as I said, I still hope that the Reform Party will come along with this good initiative, because they themselves have said that they support raising child benefits, raising child and family benefits. But to what extent and how? This is a discussion place, isn't it? And maybe together we can convince the representatives of the Reform Party that they are ready to give their support to this draft at third reading. At least the initiators should all make an effort to make the representatives of the Reform Party understand how important this is for Estonia's development.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U41	Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U42	Thank you. The intensity of the work of working-age members of the household with dependent children is known to be an important factor affecting the rate of child poverty. And I am pleased to ask how do you think that the benefits provided in this draft will affect the employment and intensity of work for working-age parents and, as a result, the impact on child poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U43	Thank you. The entry into force of this draft should certainly reduce child poverty. That's what it says in the explanatory memorandum. As far as parental employment is concerned, perhaps one of the things I did not mention in the introductory presentation is the reconciliation of work and family life, which is also important. And this bill will certainly promote reconciliation between work and family life, because greater economic security and higher family benefits allow parents to have a flexible choice of work and work part-time, either by the mother of the family or by the father of the family. The adoption of this draft will certainly contribute to reconciling work and family life, so that you can courageously support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U44	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U45	Thank you. Listening to what you're saying, it seems to me that you deserve child support. This whole text about how children are given birth to the state, how it depends on child benefits, how child support makes the more paid people give birth, it is still infantile. But I'm asking about your party's views. When did you turn them upside down? When we built the country together, it was still your view that families care for their children, they acquire these children for themselves, and they build their own taxes on the state. At the moment, what you are saying is completely the opposite, that the state maintains citizens, gives birth to money that it does not collect from the people, and then the children are made for them. How's the dependant upside down for you? How has this discussion developed in the party? Please describe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U46	Thank you. Don't be so childish. Don't be so childish! First of all, what concerns the positive impact on the birth rate and parental benefit, namely political measures. I deliberately quoted Praxis so you wouldn't blame me for personally thinking that. These measures have a positive impact and the parental benefit was not applied to Estonian people giving birth to their children, but to their families for joy. So is this bill. No, no one in this draft is going to set the goal of giving birth to children to the Estonian state. But the truth is, it's going to benefit all of us. Jürgen, it will benefit all of us, both the state and our fellow citizens, but the greatest pleasure is still for our family and siblings. But as far as family policy is concerned at all, family policy has been one of the most important policies in Fatherland since the beginning. Jürgen, when we started building an Estonian country together, remember, 1,000 euros of support for each child. 1,000 crowns, I'm sorry! 1000 kroons allowance for each child. You see, I wasn't there yet. You can see how early it was in the Fatherland as a programme goal and as an election lecture. So, no, there hasn't been any revolution here. Family friendliness and child-friendliness, and with regard to demography and the survival of the Estonian state, language and culture, the Fatherland has contributed to this from the beginning and this has been our priority all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U47	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U48	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Many factors influence the birth of children, especially the care and love of parents and grandparents, home security, as well as education arrangements, are that teachers in our schools who receive a corresponding salary teach the same thing in universities. We all know the underfunding of higher education and the deficit of almost EUR 100 million, which is growing every day. These problems also need to be addressed. But, in fact, I would like to ask by quoting the position of the Alliance for Child Welfare on this draft and it says this: "[---] the draft requires further analysis and stresses the need to thoroughly assess the impact of the proposed amendments to this draft, taking into account the interests of all children living in Estonia. It is important that the drafters also consult thoroughly Estonian population scientists and demographers. We're all on the same side of the kid. " We, too, are all on the same side. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In so far as the initiators have now taken these proposals into account and agree...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U49	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U50	...to have a more realistic look at these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U51	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, this draft is a very realistic view of Estonia's family policy and demographic situation and takes into account the interests of all children. Now, as far as population scientists are concerned, population scientists have suggested that, precisely when we are thinking of influencing demographic processes, focus first and foremost on the support of the third child. And that has been confirmed by practice. As a result, experts estimate that some 2,500 additional third children have been born in Estonia during this period when we increased support for families with children a few years ago. So this previous increase in family benefits has also brought about its positive effects. While we have already discussed the impact of parental benefit here, the previous raising of family benefits has also had a positive impact on Estonia by the birth of 2,500 third children. And this is very important given Estonia's small size. As far as this general funding is concerned, there are a lot of questions about it, as regards the sources of cover, it is certainly more sensible to implement this draft, which is, indeed, much more extensive than my second example, but certainly it is much more balanced, where, on the one hand, child subsidies are, as I said, economic aid and a socio-economic measure, and, on the other, a measure aimed at families with children. This is much more thoughtful than a one-off EUR 50 grant, which costs 30 million in one current year and which is universal support. If much is said about necessity and it is the Reform Party that talks about targeted need-based support, then this one-off EUR 50 grant, which costs 30 million, just before the elections, no it is not targeted support. So I think that in the state budget, as I said, there are a lot of options for consideration and will depend on the priorities that we set as priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U52	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! After all, the support of a child-rich family has been working in Estonia for a long time and thanks to the leadership of the Fatherland. And when people say today that they don't know where the money comes from, the way you said to the previous questioner, that if the money for the 50-euro distribution was in an extra 800 million budget, they also found that they had to borrow, but for military cover, and where the 15 million actually only went there out of 800 million. But I have a question: shouldn't the law state that there is a possibility that if [the] oldest child becomes an adult, i.e. if he goes to school, 19 years old, then two thirds of the child benefit will remain? That if today's child is already an adult, on 1 February next year, two thirds of the family allowance will be retained by two younger children. How do you feel about making it clear that there is no two ways of understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U54	Thank you. This is also the place of political choices and the place of decision-making, and this should certainly be clarified in the course of the procedure now before the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U55	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You referred repeatedly to a long plan in your speech earlier, and I would ask you how this long plan envisages a situation in the future when kindergartens, schools, universities, and, by the way, support services, as well as children's mental health, are underfunded. Should it not be the task of the state, on the basis of necessity, to review these benefits in order to prevent in the future a situation in which parents must put the child in private care, a school of private interest, and to take him to a private doctor?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U57	Thank you. I totally agree with you. Of course you do. As I said before, we need to address health policy, education policy, including education of interest, many other issues, including higher education, which is underfunded. But with this one law, we do not solve all the problems of Estonia. And such a complex cluster law certainly does not make sense, and it does not fit into our political culture. It is not rational processing if we put social, educational, health, culture, family policy and everything else into one law, it is not conceivable. So there are still different laws that we deal with. We must keep this balance in mind at all times, and this is the place of political debate. As we can see, different political parties perceive societal bottlenecks and the application of aid measures differently. That is where this balance between taxes, free services, subsidies is really at stake. And by the end of these debates and debates, Parliament will make a decision. So in this case, it is the law on family benefits, which is absolutely right and which is part of the solution to the problem that you brought up. But this certainly does not solve the underfunding of higher education, for example. Or, as you said about hobby education, we know that the current government even reduced the funding of hobby education, cut by quite a few million euros, which I do not think there was any need for in a situation where revenue revenues were significantly higher than was planned. For me, such decisions are beyond comprehension.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U58	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have such a riddle. I do not understand exactly why the Reform Party is so critical of this draft. Because we remember that until recently, a large part of the population had problems paying bills, paying electricity bills, paying heat bills. And, of course, families with children are the first to be hit. Following the riddle, I heard from the Prime Minister that 85% of Estonians are in Estonia. Perhaps it has something to do with, this optimism, that everything is fine with the growth of the people, if the Prime Minister knows that 85% of Estonians are Estonians? I know it's a little over 67%. So what do you think this is about? Is there any connection between this optimism, the optimism of the Estonians' growth, and the criticism of the law [the draft]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U60	Yeah, well, I'm not familiar with the Prime Minister's statement. I am well aware of the very different statements and will follow closely what the Prime Minister says, but that the proportion of Estonians is 85%, I have not heard. That is not true, of course. The share of Estonians among people living in Estonia is significantly lower and in recent years is decreasing, which is certainly a cause for concern. Speaking of children's benefits and family policy, also at the local government level, I have noticed one thing: secretly, sometimes it can be said between the lines that children do not vote, children do not have a vote in elections. And it has also been an important factor. I watched the behaviour of various local governments during the time of the cut and I have also talked to local government politicians. Often the scissors tended to go there first because they did not vote. Maybe there's a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U61	Timo Suslov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U62	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I would like to add one such information here that all the pension decisions you have referred to here have actually been included in the RES, but family benefits are not. You pointed out a lot in your story that you're subsidising Praxis research. Then why haven't you brought the opinions of population scientists, the views of demographics here? You said well in your presentation that you had a discussion with each other. Why, then, has this matter not been discussed with Estonian population scientists, demographers, in order to clarify this picture? The Child Welfare Association has actually done a pretty good analysis, which is not in this draft. Why hasn't it been done here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U63	Thank you. We have discussed both among ourselves and have taken as a basis the opinions of experts - population scientists. And, as I said, population scientists have suggested precisely this kind of ideological approach to the implementation of family benefits. This is precisely the proposal of population scientists to approach family benefits in this form. So we have discussed each other and we have followed the proposals of population scientists.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U64	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I consider this draft to be necessary and timely. Estonian families, whether child-rich, with one or two children, need additional support, especially in these difficult times. I ask: have there been studies in Estonia that show how family benefits affect the birth rate? You have mentioned the Praxis study, but what other studies have been carried out and what exactly do they show?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U66	Thank you. Yes, I was talking about parental benefit here earlier, but I was also talking about the impact of family benefits and I referred to a study by population scientists on how economic confidence is also linked to birth rate behaviour. So, as I have answered the previous questioners, I can also answer you that, yes, we have examined the various opinions and the proposals of the various population scientists. I dare say that giving such long-term economic confidence will have a positive effect. Moreover, various population scientists outside Estonia have also pointed out that Estonia's subsidy policy regarding children's and family allowances and births is too birth-centric, i.e. birth-centric, birth-related, parental and other local government benefits related to birth. However, such long-term stable subsidies are not sufficient. And the current draft, which increases children's monthly support and family allowances, which are of a lasting nature, which is not linked to the moment of birth, is precisely the direction that various experts have suggested, which gives longer-term confidence to the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U67	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U68	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good Helir, you just said the kids wouldn't vote. In fact, they still vote, children take part in the vote in municipal elections. It is a matter of how much they participate in it and how influenced they are, that is a matter of its own. But an extremely good law is because supporting a child is a vital factor in society, and I think it is good that we are dealing with it. But the question is that this law is based on a common understanding of a child, i.e. under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child is a minor, and there is also a reference to a minor child. But the child, let's say, in a broader sense, he's also when he's in a dependent family, he's in studies, and there's a time that can go beyond 18 years. High school can get longer, there's vocational schools, there's colleges. How does the perspective suggest that you can still take your age up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U69	Thank you. First of all, the line for this line. However, I think it is right to say that children do not vote because they only have the right to vote in local elections from the age of 16, they can already be considered as adolescents. Children under 16 years of age do not have the right to vote and 16 years of age do not have the right to vote in Riigikogu elections either. But it was now about the line. As far as child maintenance is concerned, and in particular when a child becomes an adult age of 18, there will be such a sudden transition, which has also been brought to the attention of various experts and an association of children's rich families that child benefits will disappear. Not 18 today, but at the end of the 19 or school year, the child benefit will end, the family benefit will end when the family is a child-rich family, and there will be additional costs related to the child's learning and perhaps living outside. This accumulates and the transition is very contrasting. To alleviate this, this draft provides for such a smooth transition: one third to one third of family allowances in a family rich in children. This is a mitigating measure for the transition and will also help children from children's families to have better access to education so that no one loses their education for economic reasons. But, of course, there's a border coming from some country, which is a third-third-third-third compromise proposal by the initiators. One might ask why a third-third-third-third, why not some other approach. It has been considered and discussed, and the financial opportunities of the state must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U70	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Our Reform Party colleagues have accused us that we, who presented this draft, seemingly have not acted in a state-of-the-art manner, because we have taken this initiative before dealing with the state budget process. However, as you yourself pointed out, both the increase in pensions and the increase in defence expenditure came before they were specifically included in the state budget. Do you think, in the context of this pension increase or the increase in defence spending, we were acting like a non-state man? I don't think so. The second part of the question is whether you think the Reform Party saw some kind of tax increase in order to raise the cost of defence or what tax they really wanted to raise. Do you know anything about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U72	No, no, I don't think we would have behaved in any way as a non-state man when we last raised the base pension here exceptionally or increased the cost of national defence. And indeed, there was no talk about where it came from and whether taxes should be raised. No, it wasn't said, and I think it was right that it wasn't set against, at the expense of which it came, and where it comes from the state budget spending, that we wait, wait until autumn, see if we have enough money for national defence or not. Knowing what urgent priorities need to be addressed, these decisions must be taken and the state budget drawn up in accordance with these priorities. And in Estonia, I think, in a broad sense, it has been done right in different governments, also in the case of state budget policy, I dare say. There are isolated manifestations here, well, I brought the same universal pre-election support, but this is still happening before the elections, and this has happened before the elections. This is not the most sensible and rational approach or sustainable policy, but let's just say that in some respects such populism is inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U73	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, According to the latest data, Estonia's median wage is 1300 euros. And if it is the salary of one average Estonian person and it receives 40 euros of support for its first and second child, then frankly it will certainly not affect her, say, ability to educate children better, but all this costs, you said, 241 million euros per year to the country, some say more than 300 million. Do you not think that the dog is actually buried somewhere else and that this money should be used to provide services for families, better education, better pay for teachers, free university education, which, unfortunately, drags away and is also a proposal from your party. Can't we use this money better?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U75	Thank you. I can't. It's the best way to use that money. And I will continue not to oppose the different target groups, but to make just one clarification that this 240 million will not only be raised from EUR 60 to 100 for the first and second child, but will be the cost of the whole bill, which also concerns benefits for families with children's rich families, benefits for families with three or more children, allowances for families with six or more children and smooth transition. So this is much wider and this total cost is 240 million. But this is again a question of balance. How much support must play in our different policies. If the proportion of free services has to be free of charge and free of charge services are not only free of charge education in comprehensive school, we have free public transport and many other items under discussion free of charge, so how many of these free services need to be available. What should be the tax burden, which taxes? It's all connected, and the various parties have a different understanding here. But in this case, it is the draft law on family benefits, which we want to create a stable and sustainable family policy and give confidence to families, to those who have one and two children, maybe because of this, many families will have the opportunity to realise their desire and dream of having a third child, and to give support and confidence to families with three or more children. So this money is well-targeted and very well-used money.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U76	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U77	Thank you. So I'm gonna open a secret for you. We have actually built this country for our children, not so much for ourselves, and in that sense the view that we are paying out pensions early and taking out debts in order to give them the cash they will have to pay back. It's pretty incredible, I got the answer from you that you think it creates confidence for women who are about to give birth, that 40 extra euros, not opportunities to reconcile work and family life, better education, health care, extracurricular activities. But explain the interesting construction that you and Heiki Hepner have repeatedly presented, that once one cost has been made, then another cost can be charged and another expense can be paid. If the previous cost has been incurred, then there is therefore still an opportunity to make a new cost. Tell me a little bit about this fiscal policy, I'm a little confused.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U78	Thank you. Now, what you have to do with releasing the second pillar of pension and the reform you referred to. On the contrary, this coerciveism, which was created to immediately take money out of children's pockets, is the state taking away the law, i.e. essentially introducing a tax and giving it to the banks to spin and drive it out of the Estonian economy in the vast majority of cases? Well, it wasn't. No, it wasn't! It was very foolish in its day that it was brought down in this form, but, well, these disputes have been debated and even before the Supreme Court, so I will not comment further. Now another thing, is the additional EUR 40 that makes women give birth, and will the country buy children with this EUR 40? Good colleague, where does the border go? Do you think the country buys 60 euros, so cheap? Now, if we're talking about your market economy approach to buying kids... [[Jürgen Ligi is talking about the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U79	Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U80	... that if there are 60 euros of support, then there is no purchase of children...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U81	Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U82	...but if we raise child support from 60 euros to 100, then is buying children? Maybe we'll talk later and talk about where this buy line goes, what do you think the price is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U83	Mr. Ligi, let Mr. Seeder answer now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U84	And, as I said, this bill promotes work, it gives parents a more flexible opportunity to work part-time. It also provides the opportunity to do less work, but gives more flexibility to work at different times. So in any case, it makes sense. Now, is it costing me how to start this ever-mobile in the financial world? No, it's not a permanent motion, it's not a miracle key. On the contrary, I think about six months ago, economic people also published an article. Raul Eamets was one of those who calculated what one born citizen brings to the Estonian state. And the term citizen brings benefits. Citizen, if we take it, there's profit, not expense, Jürgen, in the long run. It's a profit, not a cost. So if we have more children, we will have more revenue in the state budget in the future. And you, who you are in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you should know very well about talking, talking to banks, with economic people, which is problem number one. No people, no hands. Let's bring it in. So I think it will have a very broad positive effect if we can achieve the objectives that have been included in this bill. And once again, I assure you that this is not some sort of [children's] purchase bill, but with this bill we are giving the opportunity that those children who are not born due to lack of money could be born in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U85	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U86	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! In Estonia, family benefits are actually among the highest in the European Union, and we are the fourth highest in GDP. Above us are subsidies in countries with ultraconservative views such as Hungary and Poland and the aim of these high subsidies politically; their impact is, in fact, that women are being kept away from the labour market. This means that their chances of self-fulfilment are limited, they are directed home and their pensions will be lower in the future. Have the initiators of [the draft] really appreciated these effects and all the representatives of the four political parties that are among the initiators supported such a view of the world, this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U87	Thank you. Well, I assume that all 54 members of the Riigikogu who signed it did so consciously, not in disorientation, and no one was forced to sign here with threats, or in any way flattered by cunning. I think, yes, with full awareness, these people have signed this bill. Now that we are going to have some of the biggest family benefits, I think it is very good, we also have one of the highest and most luxurious, if you could say so, parental benefits. One of the highest parental benefits. And it has had its own positive impact, so I think that these combined will certainly have a positive impact on our family policy. And that means parents or women... We still need to talk about both parents here in the case of family benefits, because in theory fathers can also be beneficiaries of family benefits, and the family is a whole family, ideally at least. This gives flexibility to participate in the labour market. No one is being expelled from the labour market; this is not an objective, but on the contrary, people can devote themselves in a balanced way according to how they have the opportunities, wills, time and skills to be in the labour market and also to be at home with the family. It gives you that choice. He is not forced to go to work for economic reasons in any case and away from his family. Giving this flexibility is certainly a positive measure in terms of reconciling family and working life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U88	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U89	Thank you. Good waitress! Recently, there was such a thing that the President did not declare a law that we had adopted, and the President pointed out that procedural rules had been violated. By the way, you were the one who sent the President a complaint as soon as this bill was discussed here. In this case, I see there's a similar risk up here. In principle, the deadline for amendments should be 10 days. This may exceptionally be altered for compelling reasons, but there must be a sufficient period of time for the submission of amendments. I say for sure: two days is not enough for me. I hope that the President will also look at the current transmission and note that we will make a commitment of 240 million to the country by the deadline of the two-day amendments. Tell me, Helir, what is this important reason or important reason why it should be two days? Why don't we take ten days to do this and discuss this whole thing in the autumn with the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U90	Thank you. Well, I hope you've found more time to deal with this important bill than two days. Right now you've made public that you're only two days into this 240 million bill, although we've had a lot more time to deal with it, it's been put into the procedure much earlier. Use it all the time. Secondly, I cannot speak for the commission on which the arguments were decided to give just two days, but I think that is enough for this draft, because this draft, as you can see, is one-page, is not a very complicated draft and the explanatory memorandum is not very long and complex and voluminous either. So this is not a major draft, but it is an important draft. This draft [is] accessible and these various impact analyses are available. And since we have talked a lot about these issues in the Riigikogu and we also compile the state budget every year, you are certainly well aware of the state's financial situation and possibilities in order to react during this period. But once again, I cannot speak for the Social Affairs Committee, but I will say that it is in accordance with the rules of procedure and with the rules of procedure. Very often, I think maybe too often, but I dare say, even very often, the deadline for amendments is shorter than ten working days. Now, to compare it with the foreign law that the President first sent back, there is no reason, because there was such an obvious violation of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and also of the Constitution, I dare say. And you see, once I wrote, the president reacted, didn't write twice, the president didn't react. Maybe I should have written it, I should have reacted. But I dare say here that the conduct of the President was also incomprehensible to me when he found in a letter to the Riigikogu that there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and the Riigikogu adopted it unchanged and then the President declared it. I don't know what the arguments were, which in the meantime convinced him that, unchanged, the contradictions that weren't changed suddenly disappeared. The Constitution was not amended and the Aliens Act was not amended, but the President declared [the law]. But the president is the president, and I don't know how to comment on that anymore. So I think you've had enough time, and you can get it up to speed. As an intelligent person, you can also read the bill and make a positive decision at third reading, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U91	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I support you first of all by being one of the signatories, and in my right mind, I signed this [draft]. The question is that there is criticism here that taking out loans will not get more children. I would like to say that most of the people in this Chamber, I believe, would be grateful to their parents if they had not had the opportunity to bear them and raise them with other means than a loan. I believe that they would have all happily paid back this loan now, because otherwise they would not have been in this world. And according to this, I myself am of the opinion that this support is still limited, because having children and increasing the population is one of the basic things that sustains society at all. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And that means that you should change the whole system, not make grants for schools...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U93	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U94	...and so much on the kids that they can do the thing on their own. Shouldn't these subsidies be raised at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U95	Thank you. As far as the loan is concerned, I would like to say immediately that the loan is never a goal, a loan is still a tool. Charging is a tool. In this case, we are talking about family policy objectives here, but in other drafts we are talking about other objectives. And the state budget is also a whole, the state budget is also made up of loans and tax receipts and assets sold, and the European Union's financial resources are made up of a wide range of sources, and it is also one of them. We cannot only talk about a loan, and that is why I am saying that it is just very accounting that the whole debate in this Chamber is now reduced to some sort of cost line of the state budget for this draft debate. We must be able to rise from the level of an accountant to the level of a politician, a statesman who looks at the whole and looks very far away. So the loan, yes, is not the goal, the loan is the instrument. Now, whether these subsidies should be even higher. Well, it is, as I have said many times, the question of a sense of balance as to whether it should be bigger or not. On the one hand, there are financial opportunities, which limit our freedom of decision, but on the other hand, there are priorities and an understanding of where this balance goes, how many free services, how many grants, what tax burden, right, this is the place of debate. However, in my opinion, given our current situation, our standard of living, the possibilities of the state budget, such an optimal balance is guaranteed in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U96	Mr. Hepner, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U97	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Good chairman of the sitting! My colleague Ligi is very nervous back here. Would it be possible to give him a third chance to ask? He's kind of dissatisfied. Or give him a chance to speak separately? I know the Reform Party has a chance to give a speech today, but you've probably lost her. Would it be possible to give either (a) an additional question or (b) even better, an additional call?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U98	Thank you. The answer is no. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U99	I still have a procedural question. Could Mr Hepner calm down by giving me this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U100	The answer is no. Aivar Viidik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The question is that the current Family Benefits Act states who is entitled to family benefits. They are entitled to receive by Estonian citizens living in Estonia, a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence for aliens living in Estonia and a temporary residence permit or temporary right of residence for aliens living in Estonia. The Family Benefits Act does not know nationality or nationality or colour or religion. Since you and another number of colleagues on the doorstep have been extremely critical of immigration, my question to you is this: do you think this legislative amendment will give a boost to immigration or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U102	Thank you. First of all, I will say right away that the regulations that you have read out of this particular law will not be changed. So the regulation that has been in force so far in Estonia will remain in force, nothing will be tightened up, nothing will be relaxed. As far as its possible impact on immigration and emigration is concerned, I think it is marginal, especially given today's situation. The war refugees who have arrived here during the first months of the war have come here without any one of them knowing that such a bill is in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, a parliamentary procedure. Moreover, it has been initiated much later. And if you look, most of the refugees who arrived here have arrived in the first few months, and now this stream of refugees is more modest than it was at first. I hope, and I think, that the Estonian state should do everything possible to promote, as soon as it occurs in Ukraine, that these people can return to their homeland as soon as possible. What concerns the design of migration policy is the Aliens Act. Here the Fatherland continues to hold its earlier views that this Aliens Act, which was [conservative] in its original structure, and the Estonian migration policy, which has been very conservative, should have remained the same conservative. Regrettably, this was liberalised by the Aliens Act and, in essence, the quota no longer makes any sense today. Now, that's the place that really promotes different forms of migration here. But it is a question of the second draft, it is not a matter of the law on family benefits. As I said, you do not recommend that you begin to repair the whole world and dissect all the problems in Estonia. Neither can we begin to resolve Estonia's migration policy, immigration policy and other matters within the framework of the Family Benefits Act. So we're still sticking to family benefits, child benefits and family benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U103	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U104	Thank you. Honourable performer! You said we'd leave this accounting level. In my vision, the state is whole and it is made up of certain parts. But listening to what you're saying, I'm convinced the money will give families an explosive growth. In the context of your [draft] procedure, have you also considered, for example, that we offer services to our young children, to our children, this concerns losing the place fee for kindergarten, which is relevant to the education of interest? You said, among other things, that interest education money was taken away. In fact, it is the task of local governments, and in good times, the state gave more money, but we can come back to it. And there are many other services that children need, but what parents really don't buy. Have you considered this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U105	Thank you. I am trying to talk you out of it: this bill does not result in an explosive increase in birth rates in Estonia, which I have not said. But I hope it has a positive effect. And the long-term solid trend towards the birth rate of this bill is positive. That is why it is important that it has a long-term stable influence. This is what we are seeking, above all, not a rapid explosive one-off or short-term increase in birth rates. This bill certainly does not have such an objective and such an effect. Repeatedly, I have said that, of course, free services, subsidies, taxes, this is a question of balance. In some places really, we know there are no kindergarten places, but in some places there are still free day care places. It's a matter of free choice for people. And theoretically, if there is a real person's financial capacity, he can, to a large extent, choose these services himself. Neither the local government nor the state, the public sector as a whole, can offer everything that a person wants. For this reason, support and economic confidence also have a strong role to play in family policy, so that the family has the freedom of choice, who wants her child to participate more in the sports circle, who is involved in the artistic circle, who has some other choice, who wants to participate and visit more cultural events. So it's a question of choices when you have money, and not every local government can. So once again, this is a question of balance. And this draft family benefits or the draft child and family benefits does not solve issues of interest education, nor does it solve issues of access to other public services in a broad sense. To this end, we have other drafts and other measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U106	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have said here several times that this bill will create such a long-term stable measure that more children will be born in Estonia. However, my colleague Yoko Alender said that the biggest child benefits are in Hungary and Poland. However, the birth rates of Hungary and Poland for women are not at the top of Europe. It sounds good in words that if someone gets 40 euros in child support, then a new child will be born into the family. It sounds like words, but I don't know anyone, and I'm asking you if you can imagine yourself or anyone else calculating that now there's 40 euros more child support, and now you could increase your family. Can you even imagine that this could help, apart from populism and a government crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U108	Thank you. No, I'm not going to think of myself or imagine myself. But, well, if your goal is to keep children's benefits at EUR 60 and under no circumstances should they be raised, and you are fighting for it, it is your political choice. I believe that creating such confidence with child benefits on the one hand and family benefits on the other, which are being indexed, will create greater confidence. All studies show that if a family has confidence, if parents have confidence, then they also have greater courage to give birth to and care for a second or third child in the family. In particular, I would like to stress that this is precisely the result of a long-term strong national policy. Not a short-term parental benefit or a one-off birth grant, but precisely a long-term stable confidence that we can provide good education, training and support for birth children. And I think it serves that purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U109	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U110	Thank you. Good Helir! Of course, I am pleased to hear that you consider me so capable and intelligent that I can understand the draft law in two days' time and table amendments. I think you're intelligent too, so in this respect we're tied to 1: 1. But what we think of each other's intelligence doesn't matter in terms of the Home and Working Procedures Act. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act requires that the deadline for amendments be sufficient, and I say clearly right now, thinking also of Kadrioru, that this is not enough for me, I think it is not enough for a large part of the hall either. But my question is different. Yesterday I happened to be on TV3 for "The Week's Summary," which is known to be the best political debate show, Urmas Reinsalu, and I asked Urmas if you really think you're gonna give her money and he's gonna start thinking about how to give birth. And Urmas said no, no, no, with that attitude, you're humiliating women and how about that. But in that case, you've been humiliating women here for two hours and talking about how money makes women give birth. Is Reinsalu a dissident, or have you misunderstood each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U111	Thank you for your question. No, I don't know what to think of Reinsalu as a dissident. Well, he's an opponent right now, just like me. We're both in opposition. But with regard to whether the aim is to make people give birth with money or to lure them into childbirth with money is not. I have repeated many times: this draft does not serve this purpose. This still serves the purpose of creating confidence that children who are wanted and expected, but who are not born because of economic distress, will be born in Estonia. That's what it's for. But it's a slightly different goal than just buying kids for money. This draft does not have that purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U112	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U113	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Helir! The fact that family benefits are small is obvious. It is obvious that the support of a single parent is small. But one of the things that is absolutely lacking in today's regulation, and this bill improves it in my vision, is that the support of a family of many children, even if this child goes to university and goes to university when the family comes to extra expenses, both housing and training costs, is lost at the age of 18 today. When I read the bill, I understand that it is also possible for the country to pay additional child benefit to young families who go to university. But you said in your second or third reply that no, now the representatives of the initiators have agreed that we will not change this age limit. So, what's it gonna be like in the end? What does the representative of the initiators say today about whether a young family going to university would receive child support?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U114	Thank you. What is obvious to you is incomprehensible to some. You said it was obvious to you that child and family benefits need to be increased, but not everyone in this Chamber thinks so either. But now the answer to the question is that we understand the same thing. This bill uses the words "when a child becomes an adult" and can be understood as being 18 years old. In fact, in the current regulation, when a child is studying, he or she will receive support until he or she reaches the age of 19 or the end of the academic year. And we want to keep the same definition in this draft in the future. So this is one of the changes that we have discussed with the initiators, what we should do. I just said it out loud, it's not in this bill right now. With regard to the smooth transition, i.e. that the benefits will suddenly end at one point when the child turns 19, finishes upper secondary school and goes on to study, to university somewhere. Here is the smooth transition for family benefits, one third to one third, that is the case for family benefits. When the first child reaches it, one third of the family allowances are lost and two thirds are retained. When the second child becomes [adult], the second third disappears, and when the third child disappears, the third third loses so that this transition is smooth. There have been a lot of discussions about this, obviously discussing whether this is the best and fairest solution, but this is the will of the initiators of the draft, and this is the smooth transition so that these family benefits do not disappear once in a child-rich family, but in a so-called smooth transition period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U115	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U116	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I read the explanatory memorandum to the bill, and it says here that raising child support to 100 euros for every child increases equality in society. I am reading here now the news in which the Alliance for Child Welfare says that the draft children's allowance increases inequality. They're critical of that. What do you think is wrong with Child Welfare League?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U117	Well, I don't know, you're quoting the newspaper, and the newspaper has gotten this message from somewhere... [don't know] how much we're communicating with the source here, what the point of the source is. But let's think hard together. If it has so far been the case that the first and second children have 60 euros per month and the third children have 100 euros per month child benefits, and now this bill equates all children with 100 euros of child benefits, 100 euros for the first child, 100 euros for the second child and 100 euros for the third child, is there greater equality or is it not? I think it is. The issue is how we treat equal and unequal ones. The inequalities must be treated differently, and they are now being treated with family benefits, that is the other part of this bill, perhaps it is meant to be. Family benefits are now based on the number of children and differ from these children's benefits. As I said at the beginning, this bill basically consists of two parts: one is the universal and equal child benefits for all, which we raise, and the other is targeted family benefits based on another logic. I think it is a good balanced bill that fulfils its objective of treating children and families equally on the one hand and, on the other hand, families in different situations are treated differently in the sense that, depending on the number of children, they also receive more benefits and receive family benefits that are indexed. Because a family with children has a whole series of extra costs, from housing costs, transportation to transport, and I mean not only that there are more of them going, but even if the family is buying a car, and if there are four or five children, it is clear that you will not put them in a five-seater car, you will have to buy a bigger car. As regards participation in the labour market, which has been very much said here, it now provides a flexible opportunity for [parent] to stay at home with the family if he or she so wishes, because he or she has greater economic security and so on. Equal treatment and unequal treatment are treated differently here, and I think that is very fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U118	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Supporting families, be it through an education of interest, be it by losing the place fee in kindergarten, be it through all the transport we pay for children, these issues have been acute all along. And to be honest, actually today we have come to the right place on this topic because, when we talk about making choices for a parent, even in the context that kindergarten is free or, well, he's paid off somewhere in a common cash register, we actually take away freedom of choice in certain cases. How do you feel about this money being handed over here saying it's about cash, giving in to it is a very bad practice, that somehow people are not able to use their money again and going to the wrong place, that the country is not being promoted enough and the quality of service? Does it also go to the right place on a kind of visional and value-based basis when a person can make his own decisions about how to use this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U120	Thank you for your question. I do, and I suppose the initiators of the draft will all think that this is a sensible approach and will give parents a choice and greater freedom of choice in terms of the future of their children, whether they are the choice of kindergarten or groups of interests or the choice of schools, if we create greater economic certainty, and the parent will have this choice. This is, in my opinion, a very correct approach on a value basis, and I think it also gives parents and families such a more flexible freedom of choice and opportunity, and we know that the situation in local governments is very different. Some municipalities have created enough kindergarten places, but in some cases they do not have and some children do not get a kindergarten, and it is far from being paid or reimbursed to the child or parents that they do not have a kindergarten place. Some local governments do, but far from everywhere. So this freedom of choice is, in any case, the right direction in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U121	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you, Mr Seeder, however, please answer me directly and honestly this question, which has not been answered as my first question, and that is: why are you in such a hurry with this bill that rational processing is excluded? All the more so since today's sitting started with a legitimate question, their draft has been standing for three months and more somewhere, and now you are coming like this [with your draft]. You see, it's not rational, it's out of the question. Please answer why you are so busy with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U123	Thank you. No, this bill we're handling is completely rational, and we're complying with the law on home and working procedures, no violation of any law. These references, which were made here earlier by some of the questioners, that they do not know whether the President will announce it if we adopt this good law here at third reading. So no. But why now, at the spring session? But because there would be more time to implement it so that clarity would come early. Still because then the government will have time to plan the right spending in the state budget back there, which was your first question, to plan the state's budget strategy, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries and authorities would have enough time to implement, to develop the corresponding IT systems and so on, so that it can enter into force at the time foreseen in the draft law. If we come back to it only in mid-September, when the Riigikogu meets regularly, and then we start discussing it in order to reach the draft in November or December, it will, of course, not be implemented in this form. So that's why this time is absolutely right. However, we are rationally not dealing with the following drafts today, which relate to trust and where amendments cannot be discussed at all. And Parliament must act as a rubber stamp, take it or leave it. We will finally only have the pleasure of voting, but there cannot be a substantive debate in this Chamber. Now that's not rational! And I would like to remind you that these are the fifth and sixth draft laws that this government brings here in this form and excludes parliamentary debate in the short term. That's where you need more brains.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U124	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U125	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Helir! It is so nice to see that the representatives of the Reform Party have also come to work for a long time and are seriously interested in the content of a draft law. But as always, they talk about money, I talk about money. According to the Development Monitoring Centre's calculations, the cost of a war refugee is EUR 7590 per year, i.e. EUR 632 per month. If we are discussing here that 700 euros a month for the Estonian family with three to six children is a huge amount of money and who will pay for it, please: the Ukrainian family with three to six children will receive not 700 euros according to the wishes of the Reform Party, but 1896 euros per month, and no one will even ask where this money comes from. Why this behavioral and inherent anomaly in the Reform Party and what do you call such a policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U126	I don't know what to call this policy, it's a reform party policy. I didn't exactly understand the numbers you were reading right now. I don't remember them like that on the move either. But I'm just overconfirming that no, it's not an abundance of money sowing. I quote from the Prime Minister's interview on 17 May: raising family allowances will have a major impact on parents with three or more children who will be gilded with money and do not want to go to work as support rises, but raise children at home. Everyone here can read this attitude. But I would add here that the next day, the next day, our Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, in speaking here in the Riigikogu, claimed the opposite that the growth of family benefits does not have any particular effect on raising children. Such assessments have been shared by our Prime Minister in connection with this draft, so I do not know what the Prime Minister is really thinking or what expertise he is relying on, if he claims one day that gold will be goldd and will have a very big impact, and in the future his parents will not want to go to work again, and the next day states that in fact, this bill will have no effect whatsoever and it will be empty money. So what's the PM's point of view, I don't know. And as far as I know, the government has failed to give its position on this bill. It is not known whether the government supports it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U127	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U128	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am somewhat surprised by the focus that has developed here in response. When we talk about increasing the birth rate, it is actually the case that the burden of care is equally divided between both parents and that the possibilities of reconciling work and family life in society are good. And, Helir, when you answered the question, you also indicated that this support would allow the parent to stay at home with the children. I would still very much like to hear exactly what truly universal child support can do. In fact, universal child benefits do not cause distortions in the labour market because they are not linked to the fact that they are working or staying at home, unlike parental benefits, which limit the earning of income at the time of receiving parental benefits. Universal child support should not lead to labour market distortions. And on the other hand, universal child support has been very effective in reducing child poverty. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And so that they can carry out their main task, under the current price increase, they should keep up with the price increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U129	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U130	Please talk about this real purpose in these universal child benefits too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U131	Thank you. Maybe you've only partially heard those answers. I have repeatedly emphasised, in my opinion, this draft, which also includes universal child support, which we are now increasing from 60 [€] to 100 for all children, so that the first, second, third and more children will be equal, which we have talked about repeatedly, it will also promote reconciliation of work and family life and freedom of choice in both directions: freedom of choice to stay at home and freedom of choice to go to the labour market and realise their abilities, skills and will. Both. No, he's not. In my opinion, it does not distort the labour market. So I am not critical of this bill at all. On the contrary, I am positively tuned and convinced that this is a very good draft, and it is precisely those objectives that you, a good colleague, also said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U132	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U133	Thank you. It is here that this bill is spoken of, so to speak, as morally speaking, and as to the state's credibility. Let's put things in a comparison perspective. This year, the costs per probation subject are 101 euros per month and the probation state will not survive if we compare the child to the probation subject, the state actually deals with his or her questions, and the person is self-sufficient. And now we say that we will not be able to pay one euro less for the child to the family if we actually pay 101 euros per month for the probation subject. In my opinion, when comparisons are made in different categories about the country's spending priorities, do we really not see that there is something slightly shifted in our moral so-called compass? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We prefer, we consider it natural that the probation subject will receive 101 euros and we will have a panic in this Chamber of the Riigikogu...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U134	Time, Mr. Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U135	... if we are going to pay EUR 100 per month of child benefit for a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U136	Thank you. I think a very good comparison, a very good question, but I am not sure that the moral compass does not necessarily show our colleagues in the right direction here. Maybe it's because of ignorance. I believe that very many members of the Riigikogu do not know that people in probation receive 101 [euro], or one euro, more than we are talking about today. I guess people don't know, they don't control this whole thing, and now that you see this whole thing, you can also objectively see this balance. So I think it's rather a result of ignorance among our colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U137	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I think that we have also, in this debate today, relatively briefly touched on one very important component in this draft, that is the indexation of family support, and that certainly deserves to be emphasised. I would dare say that if it was not a statesmanly part of this or a statewomanly part of this bill, I would ask what it is. And, indeed, I would like to draw a parallel here with pensions. I do not want to contrast families with pensioners with children at all, but I see that this kind of coherent behaviour, solidarity, on strategic issues, is crucial. Please comment a little more broadly on this issue. I think it deserves an extra highlight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U139	Thank you. I think that this is one very fundamental change, compared with the current situation, a very fundamental change, which will create this same certainty in the long term. We know how it has been with child benefits so far, that at some point child benefits have been raised, and then perhaps five or six years, or even a longer period, have not been raised. From the point of view of creating such confidence and stability, this is the right national family policy. So, yes, it is important to note that I said at first, and in the case of pensions, it has justified itself, and it does not, of course, exclude one-off decisions that we have seen in the case of pensions, that, if there is a need and political will, there can also be an increase in indexation. Although, for the time being, the idea was to avoid one-off decisions, either pre-election or other motives, which would increase benefits or pensions. Indexing gives certainty, but does not exclude the possibility of one-off lifting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U140	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U141	Thank you. The cost of the criminal custody was 101 euros, and we are talking about the huge ruckus that we are raising child support to 100 euros. But let's look at the prisoner's maintenance costs. This year's budget includes an average maintenance cost of EUR 2482 per month. This means that this bill, which has been considered too abundant, actually means that it is for a family of 16 children. If 16 children are in the family, the state would pay the same money each month after this bill came into force to support one prisoner. I would ask for your comment on such a moral perspective in value logic. Does this comparison make this bill's expenditure seem unreasonable to the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U142	Thank you. That's another very good comparison. If you answer it briefly and directly, it doesn't seem to me. I don't think so. On the contrary, in this context and in comparison, I think we should support families more. But we all know that it is very expensive to maintain prisons, and we do not know how much social costs would be if those people who are supposed to be [wearing] and are going to prison were free. We probably can't do this balance sheet here and nobody can. So this is such a good comparison, but I think it is very appropriate to recall when we are discussing the amount of grants and the possibilities of the state budget and the financial costs that we are making in one area or another, the knowledge and comparison of such things is absolutely appropriate and I am very pleased that you have asked this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U143	Mr. Metsoja has a procedural problem. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U144	Yeah, thanks! I feel a little touched by the fact that Delfis has a live broadcast of our discussion and my good so-called penguin, though on the right hand, Light Everaus has come in with his computer desktop, or screened live. Maybe a good chair could sort this out a little bit. Is it quite good practice that the press takes random photos of the screen and then puts it up for the whole of Estonia to view the public when a member of the Riigikogu has come across one or another online publication? Is this in line with our rules of procedure and good practice, and is it ethical?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U145	I think that the key word is in the last word of your question: ethical. The Riigikogu transfers are also publicly available on the Riigikogu web, and the members of the Riigikogu must also take into account that if their tools are available on these tables, they are also available. Perhaps the fact that different phones have been photographed here and these [pictures] have been set up earlier. I think that both the press and ourselves in this Chamber must take into account that we are available to the public. It is also very difficult in this sense, perhaps, to start laying down some rules for media publications so that we do not let them up there again to the press gallery. That's why there's a press gallery up there. Rather, I call on all of us here to monitor what we do and how we do our work. But we must consider that the Riigikogu hall is live all the time, 24/7, as long as we work here. As long as the work of the hall is complete, the transmission of the hall will be available for as long as possible. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U146	Yeah, thanks! I must say, as well as being the initiator of this draft, that these discussions have been very good and substantive between the four political parties both during the initiation phase of this draft and later. In my opinion, this is an extremely substantive and good draft. And actually such a good debate in this Chamber is relatively rare, but I can see that there has been a debate on this draft. However, we have heard that some of these critical notes have remained sound from one group, as if Parliament should not share the task of the government. Or, at the end of the day, that the Prime Minister has tied his position to supporting Estonian children, that if we go forward with this bill, we support Estonian families and children, the Prime Minister has promised to resign. What's your assessment of this behavior? Is this ethical behaviour and is it reasonable to associate a political position with the children of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U147	Thank you. I'll answer that in two parts. First of all, I do not think that this was a very mature decision and, although a mature response and response to the situation that emerged from the Prime Minister. I think that politically, too, it is not very wise to state your position in so-called black and white and put yourself and your party in a rather difficult position, to take away such flexibility and space of negotiation and to oppose the rest of Parliament. In my opinion, this was not the wise and successful and thought-out decision and message that the Prime Minister said in connection with this draft. In addition, I believe that the Reform Party also hardly wished for such a reaction, which can be read out of this message, and which has also been interpreted as the fact that the Reform Party is now fighting against child support at all costs, even at such a price that if you raise child support, the Prime Minister will resign. This was certainly not the message that the Reform Party wanted to convey to society. I think it was a success. And secondly, which I think is much deeper, it is essentially directed against parliamentary democracy that if a minority, in this case one of the five parliamentary parties, yes, the party of the Prime Minister, says that he is of a different opinion and there is no consensus within the coalition on this draft, and in Parliament an initiative that is entirely constitutional, and the members of the Riigikogu, 54 or majority, initiate one draft, then the Prime Minister will ultimatively announce as representative of the executive power that in this case he will take such an extreme step. Maybe he'll dictate to Parliament. And if I put it in the context that we are going to discuss with the next drafts today, where there are also drafts relating to trust, where parliamentary debate is excluded, then this political agenda can already be read. And that is what is already dangerous to Estonian parliamentary democracy. So I do not consider this statement and decision to be reasonable at all and it does not encourage good cooperation in this House either. Rather, the Prime Minister should have said here that Parliament has the right to initiate drafts, that he can state his preferences, but he should have gone to it very clearly, that in parliamentary democracy, as the Estonian state is under the Constitution, it is within Parliament's competence, and Parliament makes decisions and gives direction to the executive, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U148	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U149	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, You have been speaking bravely for several hours, and I am very pleased that you are talking about matters [of the cross-party]. Children are important, and they should not be involved in party issues, but solutions could be across parties. The fact that the support of the first and second children will rise to EUR 100 is very correct. We have already introduced the draft on 22 March, but on 12 May [the draft] also gave up the support of a single parent, because 19 euros and 18 cents are indeed a disgraceful sum and it is not helping. Rather, the question arises as to why it has been kept this way for a long time. Today, you have presented a newspaper review of the various measures of children's benefits, the rise for children. But there wasn't one year to 2015. When the 2014 Social Democrats, together with the Reform Party, raised child support from EUR 19 to 45, which had not changed for tens of years, and your party did not vote against. Did you forget, or is it a finger?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U150	Thank you. As far as I can remember, we even supported this draft in the vote, so we have supported it in every way. It's probably a finger that he's not on that list, in that chronology. However, this reaffirms that the current draft, which provides for the indexation of family allowances, is essential and creates stability. These fickle increases that were not raised for a long time and then raised at the same time and then raised again, right, do not give such assurance, if indexation is possible, at least to the family benefits that are included in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U151	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you to the speaker. The children are our future, I fully agree with you, and the situation of many families with children is difficult. But shouldn't we be responsible? This amount, 300 million, which you now promise to take and index even further with four political parties, will take away a lot of families with children, as if they feel that they are actually losing opportunities to support children's development, to support children's education, such as teachers' salaries, in terms of higher education. And I would ask, Fatherland has been our ally in raising support for higher education and raising teachers' salaries. Have you calculated what is paid to families when they have to pay for private education, if they have to send children out to higher education or if they have to take private teachers in order to provide a good education when our education system collapses? Do you have any of these calculations done?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U153	Thanks for asking. First of all, I will continue to say that I do not think it is right to oppose the different target groups, as came out of this question, that, if we raise child and family allowances, the important decisions needed to finance higher education or in some other area will not be taken. I won't. If these are priorities, they can be realised. Now, are we allies to funding higher education with the Reform Party? I don't think we are lately. We are talking about free Estonian-language higher education, the Reform Party has always supported at least part of paid higher education, but these are different things. We have been saying that this year too, a solution should be found to finance higher education so that universities can conclude administrative agreements with the state. This money has not been found, despite the fact that we have repeatedly made proposals both in the budgetary procedure and in the supplementary budget procedure. So I do not dare to say that we are allies on all aspects of higher education, too. But I'd like to be, because we have a problem in common. Now, children are our future. Is this draft children's and family benefits not too abundant, as has been said and asked, and too expensive and expensive, are comparisons being made here with some other countries? I don't think so. True, raising children, training is very costly for both parents and local authorities and the state, but this is an inevitable future, and the more we channel resources there, the better the future we get, and it is in the interests of all of us. And the amount of parental benefit that we pay each year is even higher. That is not something we are questioning, that is what we approve of, and that is what has justified itself in practice. Disputes about where this ceiling goes, and so on, probably these differences of opinion will remain in this Chamber forever, but basically the application of parental benefit and its positive effect in practice has been proven and it is more expensive than 240 million [euro] that we are talking about. So I think that, no, because of this, neither higher education funding nor other important decisions will be missed if they are priorities. I say once again: we have foreseen a one-off EUR 50 in the budget for 30 million, but 20 million could not find funding for higher education, for example. Now I'm going to reverse this inside of my answer. But it's all a question of choices that have priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U154	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Here in the documents of the law, the effects of the law are also well highlighted, and they are understandable that coping will improve and feel secure, and you have explained this very well in the remote control. However, some experts also point out that all Estonian residents, including foreigners with a fixed-term residence permit, receive public family benefits, and generous social benefits are a breeding ground for immigration. This has been demonstrated by the experience of several countries, and probably this aspect of influence exists in some way. Agree or object, Mr. Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U156	Thank you. There used to be at least one question in the same direction that I answered. With this draft we have really focused on the issue of family benefits, and with this draft we will not resolve our migration policy, where we have different views here among the various parties. The position of the Fatherland continues to support a conservative migration policy which, unfortunately, was very forceful, very substantial and very basically amended by the latest Aliens Act, and I can say today that there is no more conservative migration policy in Estonia. It served us very well for 30 years, despite the various benefits and despite the very rich parental benefits we pay. So I guess this is definitely not going to be the main factor affecting migration here. And I very much hope that in the future we will rather come back to this Aliens Act and make a number of aspects more rational there. But unfortunately, with this draft, we are not improving the whole world, as I have said, and neither is migration policy. So let us now focus on adopting this good draft law on family benefits and thus getting a greater positive effect from the point of view of the birth rate. And let's see how we can deal with these migration issues under the Aliens Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U157	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Well, this support for families has become a political triangulation where, as if, the long-term disease has somehow kicked out as a virus, and now we realize that the coalition, like every day, is lying there on the verge of a mild cold and cough until the end of life, somehow the disease gets worse. How do you feel about whether this issue of family benefits is actually a big problem for the coalition or whether it is a long-standing problem and an unresolved issue, not understanding each other, so it's just a bill of excuse! For someone else, a cherry on a cake and something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U159	I think there are a number of reasons that have accumulated. One thing is that the different political parties, the two coalition parties, have a different platform for family policy. Secondly, I think that relations within the coalition have become very difficult. And thirdly, what I did not explain here before answering one question: such an initiative that a coalition party or politicians from a coalition party in Parliament have initiated the draft in such a way that there is no prior agreement in the government coalition, as if it were unprecedented and something very uncultural. First of all, I would like to say that it is completely characteristic of parliamentary culture. And second of all, this kind of thing has happened before, so many times it has happened before. I believe that in the work of all the Riigikogu configurations, you will find such cases. In the previous composition, there was a reform of the pharmacy, for example, which was debated and where the parties to the coalition did not agree. However, as a result, the Prime Minister did not make any ultimative statement that if some coalition ambassadors vote differently in the case of pharmacy reform with opposition ambassadors, as actually happened, he would resign. No such ultimatic statements were made. But there was also a statement of support for Ukraine, for example, where we know that there was no consensus in the coalition, and the ambassadors voted differently in this Chamber too. But then the Prime Minister didn't act so ultimatively. So I don't know why the Prime Minister chose the draft law on children's benefits or family benefits, and here he said that now and now, he's resigning. It doesn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U160	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is true that children are our future, and I would like to leave to them how to say, the best Estonia possible. Here's the question. We don't really grow a money tree, we have to make choices. Will we not leave our children a very heavy burden in the future because I know that, in fact, this family benefit, this fixed cost, is beginning to grow over the years. It is currently EUR 240 million, as you said, but in ten years it will be [greater], it will be indexed and increasing. Doesn't that burden our children in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U162	Thank you. I think that this positive effect outweighs this future commitment. We now have to think about whether we are spending and investing in our children today, in our family policy, so that no child we want will be born and all children born get a proper education, then they are competitive, they can handle themselves, they are good taxpayers in the future, they are developing Estonian economy, language and culture well. And this investment will pay back with plenty and profit. Or we cheapen, we don't make this investment in our children, we don't completely develop their abilities. By doing so, their competitiveness will suffer, in fact, the development of the Estonian state will suffer. And I think that, if you now consider whether to make this investment, whether or not to contribute so much to children, it is my personal conviction that this contribution will pay off and these expenses and these investments should be made now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U163	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Ceder! I would first like to express my displeasure. It is not directed against you, but it is directed against journalists who are constantly peeking over our shoulder into our electronic means and producing news on this subject: how someone is shopping here and how nobody is looking at what they don't know. This is extremely unethical. Friends, our smart tools are the sphere of our private activities, so don't stick your nose in it. Make the news, what's the news? But here's the question. One questioner was concerned that if we raise family allowances, immigrant families would also receive large sums of money and empty out our treasury. I think that they have the opportunity to propose improvements, after all, they have threatened with them, so that only Estonian families, not immigrants, would be affected by these family benefits. But if their liberalism is to come to life, have you calculated when the Estonian people will become a minority in their historic homeland?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U165	Well, I'm working to make sure it never happens. One of the aims of this same bill is that the Estonian people will never be a minority in their own country and that we will have secondary growth as children born. This bill also serves this purpose. No, I refuse to think about this today, and I hope that if we adopt this draft, we will have taken one step closer to this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U166	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At one time in good Soviet times, there was a construction company such as the Rev and Construction Government, and here you can actually draw a parallel with the party currently in power, the REF, or perhaps you could specify a little bit: the European Union's repair and construction government. But the question is that, as we know, Estonia has been supporting Ukraine with 275 million euros since the war broke out, and from the Ukrainian parliament we learned that Estonia has also promised to support the reconstruction work of the region of Žõtomyr. And now I have the question, what is your assessment of why this money runs out of Estonia, but not to Estonian families? Whose prime minister is Kaja Kallas at last?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U168	Yes, well, indirectly, this question also relates to this draft, because there has been a great deal of talk here about money and possible sources of cover, and I have repeatedly said that it is a question of choices, that is a question of priorities. But if we are now dealing with the war in Ukraine, it is certainly also, in a sense, a matter of inevitability that the war in Ukraine is actually a war for Estonia, a war for Estonia's independence and Estonia's freedom. So here I am not very critical of the statements that have been made, assuming that they are made of goodwill. How great our opportunities and will will really prove to be in the future, when the war in Ukraine has indeed ended at one point and Ukraine is being rebuilt, how great the help and support of the Western countries in rebuilding Ukraine will be, we will see that then. Estonia certainly has its role and contribution in this. But we're not big on the scale of the world. Our economic policy capabilities and our financial capacity are very modest, but we certainly can and must contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U169	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You answered my first question very well. I fully understand that family benefits are a good investment. But if there is a wallet with a certain amount of money, there is no more money to invest, which investment, in your opinion, is better looking into Estonia's future, family benefits or investment in education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U171	Who can separate them? In my opinion, both are necessary, and there is no way I can contradict them and make such a choice. I say that this is once again a whole and balance issue, where perhaps politicians have slightly different ideas. I come again to the extent of the subsidies that people receive and which give people the freedom of choice they prefer. The extent to which public services, which are available cheaply or free of charge, are also in their place and essentially, cannot be done without them, and the amount of taxes to be paid in order to deal with all of this and to deal with the state. It's a question of choice. There are different world views, different preferences and ideal balance, but this balance we see very differently probably. And in the current situation, it seems to me that, given the possibilities of the Estonian state, our standard of living and the way in which we have a funded education system, the health care system, the adoption of this draft law on family benefits creates a better balance than we have had to date. And coming back to § 28 of this constitution, which says that families with children are under the special care of the state and local government, we must somehow decorate it. "Under special care," says the Constitution. So I think that this is our constitutional obligation, and given the possibilities we have today, it will create a better balance than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U172	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U173	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Yeah, your last talk was pretty good to hear. The Estonian Constitution also states, of course, that people with disabilities are also under the special care of the Estonian state. But when I hear here now, now you claim that there are some things to be said in the draft, you are proposing amendments, while there have already been some questions from the initiators in the Chamber that show that the draft has not yet been quite thought out. So I have this question: what do you think, as a representative of the initiators, that the deadline for amendments has been left extremely short here? What do you think of that? Well, this question is probably for the Commission waitress, but what do you think of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U174	Thank you, that has been the Commission's decision and proposal, so perhaps the Commission has come to the conclusion that this time is sufficient for the procedure on this draft. I would remind you that this is not an emergency. We often have here such drafts where the deadline for proposing amendments is shorter than the normal time allowed. And the bill has been in the process for a long time. However, I dare say that this bill has been thought through, it is not that this bill is somewhat crude. However, this does not mean that the proposals cannot make it any better, or that the proposals also come because the compromise is somewhere between political parties in a different place than the initial draft of the initiators has actually been. It is also not always a question of the maturity and quality of the draft, but of what is the compromise to get as broad a support group as possible in this Chamber. So this is also the result of the amendments, not just the fact that the draft is somehow bad. So I hope that these proposals will come, they will be reviewed within the deadline, and this compromise will be such that the Reform Party can also support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U175	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Head of Government and Prime Minister, the chairman of the Reform Party has kindly given money to war refugees, the last time there was an additional budget of 750 million, and now there is [a] promise to rebuild the new city. But at the same time, there are two legs against the support of our own country, our own children, or families. How ethical and proper do you consider such weight for the better that war refugees versus the children and large families of your country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U177	No, it can't be reversed because if we don't have children, we don't have a future. I certainly do not support such a contrast. But our opportunity and our duty here is to convince the Members of the Reform Party together that this is a good draft that is worth voting for, and I believe that today's debate has contributed to this, that they will understand that the will of the majority is there anyway. And another aspect: Kaja Kallas has said that then he will resign. But can you imagine that four parliamentary parties are behind this draft initiative or that to be correct, the four parliamentary parties are behind this initiative, what alternative is the Prime Minister of the Reform Party? Returns on the basis of the adoption of this draft and then, if a new coalition is to be established, it is still necessary to create it together with the four parties or among the four parties, all of whom have supported it. What kind of triangulation is it that I resign and actually continue with parties who have all supported this bill if it goes as the initiators have wished. What's the move then was on the political chessboard, I still don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U178	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions. Let's go to the co-report. Siim Pohlak, on behalf of the Social Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, People's representatives! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu at its meeting on 16 May. The members of the committee were Tiiu Aro, Hele Everaus, Kert Kingo, Helmen Kütt, Siim Pohlak, Priit Sibul, Urve Tiidus, who replaced Luck Pillaku, Marika Tuus-Laul and Viktor Vassiliev. Ms Signe Riisalo, Minister for Social Protection, Ms Laura Danilas, and Mr Merlin Murumets, Adviser to the Child and Family Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs were also invited. Jaanus Karilaid, member of the Riigikogu, and Annabel Liinsoo, adviser to the Central Party Group, participated with him as a representative of the initiators. The initiators' representative Jaanus Karilaid presented the draft and outlined the objective of raising child and family allowances so that the first and second children's allowance would rise to EUR 100 instead of the previous 60, the allowance for a family rich in children with up to six children to EUR 700 instead of the previous 300, and the allowance for a family rich in children of seven or more children to EUR 900 instead of the previous 400. In order to ensure that support for a family rich in children continues to be proportionate to the increase in the standard of living and that the amount of that allowance should not be changed annually, the allowance shall be indexed to an index similar to that of 1 April of each calendar year, which shall be the same as that of the elderly pension and the salaries of senior public officials. In addition, the representative of the initiators pointed out that the increase in energy, fuel and food prices has changed and will continue to make the economic situation of families with children more difficult than before. That is why the system of children's benefits and benefits for families with children needs to be reviewed and updated. Secondly, raising the birth rate must be one of the priorities of the Estonian state. Estonia's population has fallen as mortality has increased and the birth rate has remained at the same level as in previous years. In addition to the presentation by the representative of the drafters, a debate took place in which both invited guests and members of the Commission participated. Commission Member Kert Kingo considered that due to the cost of living [ascension], this draft is absolutely essential and should be a priority number one. Member of the Commission, Priit Sibul, welcomed the wider support given by Parliament. The demographic crisis has not disappeared, and this measure will certainly help to alleviate it. Helmen Küttt said that it is important that the support of the first and second children be increased. Minister Signe Riisalo expressed his opinion on the costs and sources of coverage of raising family allowances and noted that what was written in the draft requires a very thorough overhaul of IT solutions. Jaanus Karilaid thought that IT solutions were one of the reasons why this draft could be adopted particularly urgently before Midsummer Day, because if it remained in autumn, we would be putting the payment of the support under a serious blow, he said. Minister Riisalo spoke about the procedure of the draft at a reasonable pace of time, in addition to which some members of the committee were concerned that the reasonable period of proceedings in the Riigikogu, unfortunately, has all too often meant that the procedure of the draft would stop. The speaker expressed the opinion that the draft increase in family allowances needed to move forward quickly. In the context of the so-called reasonable period of proceedings, there was also an example where the draft proposed by the opposition to increase the allowance for disabled children was similarly left in the government's drawer. These were some of the moments of the Commission's debate, which turned out to be quite long. After the debate, the Commission made the following procedural decisions by consensus: to propose the termination of the first reading, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 30 May, today, and to appoint a speaker to represent the lead committee before you, and to propose that the deadline for the amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 1 June 2022. So much for what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U180	Let's get to the questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Since 24 February, Estonia has supported Ukraine with 241 million euros in military support. 17 million euros has provided humanitarian aid to Ukraine, with 3 million additional coming from additional budgets and 15 million from private and third sectors, a total of 275 million. In addition, Estonia has promised to support [the creation] of a rehabilitation centre for violence against women and children, including by boosting the service provided, in the region of Žõtomõri. And the second strand is the restoration and construction of public buildings. Question: did the debate in the Commission have this topic, which is why Estonian families and children are currently out of focus?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U182	Thank you. The Commission did not discuss issues relating to the region of Žitomyr. But basically your question is that Kert Kingo in the Commission raised the question that the government has money for everyone else, but not for its own people, and pointed out that there was a one-off grant of 50 euros per year in the supplementary budget for its people in Estonia, which is 4 euros and 17 cents per month. So, basically, yes, they did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U183	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U184	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have heard many times in this Chamber today how the representatives of the Reform Party contrast family allowances to national defence, but also to teachers' salaries, and so on, also in the media. Why don't you open up the debate on the committee? Did the Commission also discuss the fact that if we do not have children, there is no need for teachers and there is no need for those who protect the country and who are protected by the state? What arguments were there, maybe you can open this place?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U185	Thank you. In the Commission, yes, Tiiu Aro wanted to know how, in the light of such a generous bill, education, security, is being carried forward. And the point was that, in fact, if there are no children, there are no students in schools, the teachers have no one to teach. If we don't have children, we'll never have a country and people to protect. In fact, yes, the key issue is children and families of children. This position was discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U186	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U187	Thank you. I believe that every sane person in Estonia understands that there is no alternative in this situation where we are today, except that Estonian families and children must be supported. But listening here to the questions and lines of the Reform Party, well, there are only empty excuses for not supporting Estonian families and children. The Prime Minister is threatening to disband the government. In the Commission, when this debate was held, did the members of the other parties understand at all what the problem is, why they do not want to support Estonian children, Estonian families?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U188	Thank you. Yes, the same subject was raised indirectly from the point of view of the resignation of the Prime Minister, too. The Commission expressed its surprise at how the Prime Minister can say that if the draft increase in children's and family allowances goes through, he will resign. This surprise was also expressed by the Members of the Commission. And the overall background in the Commission was, in fact, equally negative, although both the Minister and some of the members of the Reform Party confirmed that they did not directly object to supporting families, the words looked for reasons why it could not be done quickly, why it could not be done at all. In essence, the atmosphere was similar to that in this room.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U189	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U190	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm not talking about a gytomy. I remember it came out a long time ago that our ambassador went to the Jutto Manor, and then it was found that one region could be taken down by shefty. But my question is about what was in that committee. It was said that the IT application could not be completed so quickly. Open up a little background on why or what this IT application should be, otherwise this good bill cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U191	Thank you for your question. The Minister did not mention the details directly, he simply claimed that it took time and time to prepare IT applications. In particular, this content did not go into, and on that point Mr Karilaid said that, in fact, if it turns out that any IT developments were to be made, then on the contrary, it would certainly have to be adopted before Midsummer Day. Otherwise, it may not be possible to pay out these large family allowances in January-February next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U192	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U193	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Indeed, I am personally very pleased that the four political parties are concentrated behind such a very necessary bill of support for children and families. But there's a party that opposes it. I now quote the chairman of the Reform Party Group Mart Võrguship, who has said: 'We agree that the various grants and costs can be discussed together with the economic forecast and then with all other costs taken into account [... ]]" We need to find sources of cover. But the government pushed through an additional budget of 803 million [EUR], which was preceded by no economic forecast or search for cover sources other than borrowing, and only 15,6 million of this budget goes to military defence, 26 million to internal security, all the remaining funds go to special grants, without any economic analysis and no sources of cover. Did anyone in the Commission raise the contradiction of such political priorities when discussing this draft or ask questions about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U194	Thank you. Yes, they did. Kert Kingo has just pointed out at the extra budget that there was money to support the press by, for example, reducing VAT, but there is no money for children. However, this issue was not dealt with more broadly. If I were to say this, I must not say this, but if I could say so, I would say that you should also look at the profits of Eesti Energia and Elering's profits. But we did not talk about it that way in the Commission, so I am not going to talk about it any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U195	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U196	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! The Reform Party has announced one peculiar phenomenon that it would like to find out more about - an obstruction against its own government. And since you mentioned that the meeting of the Commission was going to last a little bit, was there any element of obstruction to be noticed? It's so interesting how the government does it against itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U197	Thank you. There were no elements of obstruction in the Commission, and even, as I said earlier, surprisingly all the decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U198	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! We, Siim, were both with you on that commission. Minister Riisalo spoke all the time only as to why he could not or why he could not. Maybe you remember, at least I don't remember having a conversation, maybe you have a better memory. Was there any such open attitude from the Minister to discuss how it would be possible to do all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U200	Thank you. No, the view was rather in that direction in the Commission, so why can't we? They were looking for reasons why they couldn't and why they shouldn't and why they should delay. So, unfortunately, I didn't notice that kind of positive attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U201	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U202	Thank you. I, too, succeeded in taking part in this Social Affairs Committee meeting. And indeed, as the previous speaker said, neither did I notice that the representatives of the Reform Party Group, as well as the Minister, would have had the sparkle of finding compromises, agreements on how to improve the draft. Can you confirm from this remote unit that, as far as I know, Minister Riisalo has sent an official letter to the Social Affairs Committee today, saying that the government has not had the opportunity to discuss such an important issue in the last two weeks, that there have been more priority issues or that the Minister has not wished to bring this matter to the government. However, in his letter he makes it very clear that his personal position is that he does not support helping Estonian children and families and does not support this bill. Can it also be concluded from this that the hope that I may have is that the Reform Party will still find its conscience somewhere and come to help is now finally extinct?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U203	Thank you. Yes, this letter was not yet in the Commission's hearing, but since it has been sent to the Committee on Social Affairs and I, as a member of the Commission, have also received it, I think that this is an important enough fact to touch here once. In fact, yes, the Minister states in his letter that the government has not been able to shape the position, but says that he personally cannot support this draft in this form. So what you're saying is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U204	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am now well politically speaking about the restoration of the region of Žitomir, not of Žitomir, but of Žitomir, or perhaps I have been talking about the restoration of Putin's henchmen, but whether there were any alternative options or how much money the Republic of Estonia is planning to spend to rebuild this region of Žõtomyr. And where do the sources come from? Here we have a number of those shelter fetish worshipers in the Riigikogu. How long-term is this process going to be, and will there be a euro crumbling with their construction and money to build four-line roads towards Tartu and Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U206	Thank you. These issues were not addressed in the Commission, but much was discussed there by representatives of the government and the Reform Party as to why our children and families cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U207	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U208	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In Europe, the Hungarian Government has shown the most striking success in supporting families and children. I assume that no one can implement such measures in Estonia, at least today's government will not. But did it turn out in any way at the Commission meeting that if the money laundering party hated children to this extent by paying subsidies, would they suddenly be willing to reduce income tax on families with children or reduce bank loans, as Hungary has done? Were there any such flashes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U209	Thank you. There were no such flashes, but indirectly speaking against other countries. Representatives of the Reform Party and Minister Riisalo pointed out that in Finland, child support will be slightly lower than in Estonia, and the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia commented that Estonia's goal should be to be the number one country in Europe, the most family-friendly and child-friendly. So, in this context, it was not discussed. But, yes, Kert Kingo also pointed out that, compared to Finland, the wage level in Estonia is completely different, it is not comparable. It was just another attempt to show by numbers why this should not be done by raising family benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U210	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U211	Thank you. Here, in the circle of previous questions, a rather strange statement came out of the mouth of one of the honourable members of the Reform Party, as if the purpose of this draft, the draft of support for children and families, was to raise taxes. It seems to me that the Reform Party is completely confused and grabs every straw, no matter how crazy it is. As long as we don't support our children and our families. And this mess is literally total. Perhaps with a few sentences you can simply come to their aid and explain what the actual content of this bill is and why we came up with it for all the rest of the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U212	Thank you. There were no tax increases in the Commission. But the content of this draft was indeed mentioned in the Commission: prices, energy prices, fuel prices, all prices are rising. If the family with children will soon no longer have the money to drive children to school or hobby groups in rural areas, what are we talking about? The fact that families with children are currently in a difficult situation, I think, should not be a surprise for reform parties either, but it is also incomprehensible to me whether they do not want to see it or do not really see it. However, this was not discussed further in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U213	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U214	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, Could you still open this debate on the committee in the key to how the discussion of the members of the committee of the two coalition partners looked there? What did one party think and what did the other party think? Mr Mölder, a good colleague, was quite specific in his speech at the moment. How do you feel about the vote today, reminding you of this debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U215	Thank you. Yes, the spirit in the Commission did not remind us very much of the coalition, the coalition of two parties. There, however, the Reform Party was very clearly on the same side that it was not possible to deal with raising family allowances, and the Centre Party, on the contrary, in Mr Karilaiu's person, was clearly thinking along with opposition parties about how we could do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U216	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U217	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I read the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the law on family benefits and here is that the draft amends the system of reducing the allowance for a family rich in children, i.e. when one child becomes an adult, two thirds of the family allowance will remain, and if two children are adults, the third child will receive one third of the amount of family benefit. Am I to understand that this applies to all families, including those who have an adult or two children today, and the third is only a minor?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U218	Thank you. It did not go very far in the Commission, but basically your logic is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U219	Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At times, I hear your presentation of the Social Affairs Committee meeting as a report of something I have not participated in. Unfortunately, I was there, and I would advise you not to be biased in your words, but to be impartial. You are a Commission waitress, not a group waitress today. I would also stress the letter from the Minister for Social Protection. You're saying you've read it. It's very clear here who has attitudes. The Minister confirms that the Ministry of Social Affairs cooperates with the officials of the Social Affairs Committee in the processing of the Act amending the Family Benefits Act in the Riigikogu. So please be specific and precise in your speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U221	Thank you. I am not going to read the whole protocol of the Commission, but I think it is also important to pass on the spirit of the Commission. And unfortunately, I am sticking to the fact that the Reform Party was looking for reasons why this increase in subsidies cannot be done. This is also supported by the protocol if you read it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U222	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U223	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You have now shed much light on what has happened in the Commission. And it is quite clear that, for some rather difficult reason, the Reform Party is warring against child support. However, there was certainly also the question in the debate in the Commission where money could be taken there, how could it still be financed? Here Helir-Valdor Seeder said earlier that it depends very much on priorities, on budget priorities, but we also know that we currently have over 130000 employees in the public sector. Basically, one in ten people works in the public sector. And the odd calculation, if we look at the average wage, the public sector's salary is also roughly about 240 million, well about the same amount that would be needed. Of course, I do not want to say that the public sector should be wound up, but it could, of course, be polished. Didn't such proposals sound in the Commission to hone the public sector in any way in order to play a major role in solving this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U224	Thank you. I agree with your problem definition, of course, but this was not addressed in the Commission from this angle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U225	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U226	Thank you very much. The question is that when the Ministry of Population and the Committee on Population Crisis were wound up under the leadership of the Reform Party, then the Committee on Population Policy was set up instead. Recently, we learned that two meetings of this government committee have taken place over a year and four months. I ask you: do you know that this Committee on Government of Population Policy has also initiated some drafts relating to population policy, which have reached the committee of Parliament? And has the Committee on Government of Population Policy also given its opinion on this draft? If so, which, and if not, how will the activities of this government committee be assessed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U227	Thank you. Unfortunately, the Commission has not reached the Commission's opinion, and it is probably the same as the government's opinion: it does not, for some reason, recommend dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U228	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is why the Commission made such a two-day deadline for tabling amendments instead of the usual 10 days. Was it also discussed to create a chance and certainty for Ukrainian war refugees, who are mostly children, to quickly show that child benefits are rising so that they do not go back?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U230	Thank you. In the Commission it was proposed that the two-day deadline for amendments. Such a proposal came and there were no alternative proposals. This was decided by consensus, and the members of the Reform Party's committee also supported it, so it happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U231	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! Under the brilliant leadership of the Reform Party, we have set different records. We set a money laundering record here, then we set a record for COVID, now we just set an inflation record. All these are such dark aura and nasty things. From the work of the Commission, have you been greeted or greeted by any of the brightest moments that the figures of the Reform Party have shown, perhaps, when setting a positive record?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U233	Thank you. I've already been told here that I'm a tilted waitress, so I won't dwell on it. Unfortunately, neither these bright nor dark moments were discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U234	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U235	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Siim! I, Siim, respect you very much, quite sincerely, but I listened to this debate in my office, and I should say you've missed something. You are a committee waitress, but you are also the vice-chairman of your group. Perhaps you should have explained to your colleagues in the group a little more about what happened in the committee, such very simple questions that could have been said in the group. I am asking you: do you now feel in this Chamber that these questions are such that you might have had to talk a little bit more about it in the group, or do you admit that with this important issue, your group is going to do a little bit more here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U236	Thank you. There is certainly no sense, and questions have also come from the Centre Party and other political parties. The whole hall full of company will not be convened by our group, and I would rather see our group enthusiasm for rapid progress on this matter. But I don't want to dwell on it. Once again, this issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U237	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U238	Mr President! Colleagues! " "Comrades!" continued with Ostap. "There is an urgent need for help. We have to pull the children out of the evil claws of the street, and we will. Let's help the kids. Let us remember that children are the flowers of life. I invite you to make your bets and help the children, only the children and no one else. You understand me? " Ostap took a receipt book out of his pocket. "Ilf and Petrov, "Twelfth chair." The proposed family benefits have little to do with caring for children. It's just a smoke screen to take on unintelligible political points. Demagoguery and emotions. No rationality, no responsibility. This year, the Riigikogu decided to distribute 13,6 billion euros of public money for various expenses. We just shared another 800 million. The decision to spend this amount is a social compromise that reflects the social needs that we, the representatives of the people, represent. Now the idea of spending another 300 million has come out. What for? To support children. "Children are the flowers of life," as Ostap Bender said. Not to higher education, the needs of which are lagging behind in development, whose funding is being increased by 15%, not for defence, although Colonel Kunnas has just called for preparations for war. One of Patriot's air defense batteries costs one billion dollars, by the way. Not as a paycheck for teachers wanted to raise 20%. Kids go to school, but there are no teachers. Not to raise the salaries of health professionals who are preparing for a new viral wave. What country do we build for our children? The future is dark. There's gonna be another outbreak of the virus. Companies are facing a difficult restructuring period due to the increase in the share of energy in production costs. There are two elements in the draft under consideration that I would like to draw attention to. Who in particular will receive the proposed children's benefits? Do the members of the Riigikogu receive child benefits equally, whose salary is 4746 euros plus 30% cost benefits, and the single mother who raises two small children? Is that fair? The explanatory memorandum speaks of a small natural breeze in Estonia. But whose breeze is it? Reading foamy writings in demagogy gives the impression that they are talking about the natural growth of ethnic Estonians. However, the proposed draft child benefit is intended for all residents of Estonia, including stateless persons and 80000 citizens of the Russian Federation. If it is true that the draft under discussion increases the natural age of the permanent population, it will increase the relationship between non-Estonians and Estonians in favour of non-Estonians according to the logic of socio-economic circumstances. It's good for the Centre Party, but is it for the Nationalists? Jaanus Karilaid, the spiritual leader of the Central Party, said a few days ago that the support of the third child had nothing to do with the worry of the third child? You can only agree with that. Ene Tiit, a well - known population scientist, recently said that money does not help to increase natural growth. "A child-friendly society begins with urban space, services and products that take into account children's needs," he says. The Child Welfare Association, with whom no one has consulted, is also critical of the draft. This bill seeks to conceal the real shortcomings of our family culture. Our society must ensure long-term safety for mothers so that they can dare to have children and enjoy their worry and upbringing. To be helped and supported by men, not to be left alone, not to be threatened by domestic violence, so that they do not fall out of working life. We need to protect them from Taliban principles, which believe women are like animals that bear a calf once a year. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U239	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U240	Although it's going to be less. The Reform Party has been pursuing an austerity policy. It seems to us that it is Estonian, not Greek or Italian. This bill will inevitably require an increase in both VAT and income tax in the future. Who and how will in the future pay for our present? We support a sustainable and smart family policy that includes financial rationality. We consider it right to support those people who really need support. Our children need love and concern today and a secure future tomorrow. This irresponsible draft is in principle contrary to the principles of the Reform Party. The opinion of the Child Welfare Association is: take this incomplete bill back and we will do something of high quality together. The Reform Party proposes to reject draft 619 at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U241	Paper too. The paper will be here. The procedure has arisen in Peeter Ernitsal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U242	Good manager! I heard from Mr Kallas, I understood the call for segregation, that there was no distinction in the draft, and everyone who is living here will also receive 80,000 Russians and so on. I understood correctly, and is such a call acceptable at all in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U243	You heard me right. The indemnity of a member of the Riigikogu allows him to say what he wants from the remote. Does Leo Kunnas have a line? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U244	Yeah, thanks! I would also like to thank Mr Kallas for mentioning my name. Undoubtedly in this security situation, we are forced to prepare for war, and perhaps my criticism here would be such that generals and senior officers are usually criticized that they are always preparing for the previous war. Perhaps if both we and our allies in Central and Western Europe were even prepared for the war that was before, we would also be in a somewhat stronger position than we are now, where, for example, our allies have limited opportunities to support Ukraine, because they simply have no military armies, no reserves, the military industry cannot produce. We are in the midst of a very large and complex crisis, faced with major complex problems, and it is not really possible here to respond very much to the different parts of the crisis, nor to what we need to do. It is simply in national defence that we now have to do in 4 to 5 years what has not been done in 10 to 15 years and, of course, it will cost more than we would have done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U245	Thank you. Now let's continue the negotiations. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U246	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U247	Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U248	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, there are quite a lot of information noise and old ideas in the assessment of the impact of family support and population policy at all, and what we have heard in this Chamber today is very much like this. Therefore, it is the overturning of these outdated concepts that may convince some skeptics. And if this skeptic is a person in that position, it may even be crucial. That is why I will start with the presentation of the Prime Minister in the Riigikogu on 16 May, where he opened his thoughts on the subject. I quote: "Listening to older men talking about all this talk about family benefits, hearing women use the term 'fertile age' as if they were talking about some sort of... I'm sorry, but not people! You know, it's so insulting, it's so insulting. It sounds just like you think she's some kind of delivery machine, but you let the support in, the baby pops out and that's it. It's not like that. Children are born out of love. You know, if you really want to raise birth rates so horribly, the most appropriate measure is to stop educating girls, lock them in their rooms, so they can't get out of there. And children will be born the way they are when they are, as you say, fertile. Don't talk about women like animals. Women are people and make their own decisions. Like I said, you decide to have a baby when you feel safe. Children are born of love when the family has such a thriving emotion. [---] In those countries that share the same value space with us, the birth rate per woman is, unfortunately, more or less the same as we do. For this reason, women have opportunities other than to give birth and fulfill your dream of a huge increase. " It's the Prime Minister's quote. I'll take it from here. To begin with, I have such a suggestion that if the Prime Minister really considers the term 'fertile age' to be offensive, there is really no other advice than to avoid any information on population science. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And, of course, never again participate in any debate on population policy. But now I would like to dwell on the positions that emerged from this speech by the Prime Minister. First of all, it seems as if the Prime Minister believes that family benefits are subject to some kind of requirement, that children are bought by some type of activity, that women are made into delivery machines. This term is often used by these progressive thinkers. Let us now try to analyze this reasoning from research. The total birth rate in Estonia is known to be slightly above 1.5 children per woman, which means that it is considerably lower than the recovery level, and it has fallen since 2018. At the same time, the previous increase in family benefits has also increased the birth rate and according to the Eurobarometer, the number of children wanted by Estonians is higher than the rate of return, ranging from 2.2 children to 2.4, depending on gender and age group. Women want 2.2-2.4 children. It is therefore important to support the Prime Minister's statement that women make their own decisions, but to add that they have made a decision that they want more children. And in the case of family benefits, it is not about buying children, but about improving the well-being of the people of Estonia as well as supporting the wishes of the citizens, and that is the responsibility of Estonia as a democratic state. All right, let's go. Secondly, the Prime Minister's speech may have given the impression that women with a lower level of education wanted much more children. Maybe according to him, when you stop educating girls, the kids start to be born the way they do. That's not true. This may have been the case in Europe a hundred years ago, but according to Eurobarometer data already mentioned, there are already a number of countries in Europe and there are more and more countries where the situation is the opposite. In these countries, women who invest more in self-development do not intend to have fewer children than their [less] educated colleagues. But it is true that, at the moment, this desired number of children for Estonian women is slightly higher for women with basic education than for women with secondary and higher education, but in all cases also beyond the recovery level. And more. According to the Estonian family and birth rate survey, only 3% of Estonian women who do not intend to have children and that their commitment to work is interrupted by 6%. All right, let's go. The Prime Minister's statement that children are born from a family of love and austerity should be accepted in all respects, but it could also be added that the most likely of having a child is married couples all over Europe. But now, whether there is no or minimal role to be played by grants in raising the birth rate, as has been tried here today, and as the Prime Minister's statement suggests. According to the same family birth rate survey, the first of the obstacles to having a child is that the child you want already exists. It can be influenced very indirectly by state policies. On the other hand, the second obstacle to not being able to afford a child is that 40% of the men and women in Estonia share it is affected, and this is what is done with the plan to be presented jointly by the four parliamentary parties. And, of course, it also has a positive impact on the economic well-being of those, especially the larger families, who already have children. Let us add new data, namely, according to the Population Barometer of 2021 for the Family Foundation, the question whether motherhood is considered to be the most important role in a woman's life is totally acceptable to 40% and rather acceptable to 36% of women. Okay. I hope that this information will also be made known to the Prime Minister, and I call on all parties to support this draft. Well, that's what the EKRE's gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U249	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! I will bring some extracts from the opinion of the Child Welfare Association on the draft under discussion. On the basis of the general principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Alliance considers it important to support families with all children. The 2015 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child report highlighted the need to harmonise the family benefit system, to increase its flexibility to improve the reconciliation of parents' work and family life and to improve the effectiveness of the support system for single-parent families. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child in 2017 also drew attention to the need to resolve this issue. The Child Welfare Association therefore proposes to the Riigikogu to improve the support system for single-parent families and to develop appropriate measures. Good fellows! Today's situation is characterised by rising inflation, which was 19% per year. Prices have increased as much in one year as in the previous decade. Data from Statistics Estonia show that energy price rally plays an increasingly important role in the increase in cost of living, leading to a 60% increase in housing costs and a 15% increase in food prices over the last year. And, in difficult years, as usual, families with children, families with lower incomes, pensioners, individual pensioners, in particular, people with partial work capacity, are hit first and foremost by those who, more or less, take all the money left over from the housing costs directly to the grocery store. The life of many of our children has gone on longer than the great war in Europe. Already during the corona crisis, families with children suffered from income, energy and food surges added their share, and the impact of war is increasing prices. For example, the Latvian state paid EUR 500 for crisis support for every child last year. We, however, have been intently ignoring the needs of children so far. In order to improve the situation of families with children by providing them with some protection against price increases, the Social Democrats launched a draft amendment to the Family Benefits Act in the Riigikogu in March. We want to raise the first and second child's allowance from EUR 60 to EUR 100 per month, and this increase in state support affects 236070 children. This would help to reduce the number of children living in poverty and perhaps increase the birth rate which, in the face of insecurity, tends to get stuck. Good fellows! Single parents also urgently need state support. In fact, the support of a single parent child has remained constant for more than two decades, only 19 euros and 18 cents a month. It's high time to lift it. In May, the Social Democrats launched a draft amendment to the Family Benefits Act, which provides for an increase in the allowance for a single parent child in such a way that, in addition to normal child benefit, a second allowance would be paid to the child. If, for example, the allowance for the first child is currently EUR 60, the child in the single parent family would be provided with EUR 120 per month, as is the total allowance for the first and the second child. This should then increase in the future, like the increase in the amount of child benefit, so that if the child benefit is EUR 100 per month, the allowance would be EUR 100 per month for a single parent child. And maybe a few more percent of it. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U251	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U252	After all, single - parent families often live in the greatest poverty. If we look at the 2020 statistics, 37.5% of single-parent families lived in relative poverty, and 6.4% of them were in absolute poverty. Full family readings aren't even close. In relative poverty, 10.1% and 1.2% of single - child and two - parent families lived in utter poverty. For feeding and covering three or more children, both father and mother families have more money than a parent raising one child alone. The trend of recent years shows that both relative and absolute poverty rates are falling among couples with three children, but they are rising among single parents. The Social Democrats are proposing an amendment to the bill to increase the support of a single parent child, and our great hope is that the great hall of the Riigikogu will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U253	Thank you. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U254	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There are about 260000 children in Estonia whose confidence is the responsibility of the state. Inflation in the euro area was 7.5% in April. It was 19% in Estonia. We're the first in this count, we keep the first places. And it is in these circumstances that we need to take much more care of our children and families and look to their confidence. I am very pleased that, according to this draft, the support of the first and second children will rise to EUR 100. With this step, we say clearly: every child is important to the Estonian state. Child benefit is universal support and there should be no difference between having your first child and having a fifth child. All children must be unambiguously important to the Estonian state. And with this step, we'll show it clearly. It is important for the Estonian state that its people, language and culture are preserved. This is why family support has been created, which shows very clearly that the state notices and supports families that are rich in children. The fact that we intend to index family allowances in the future is a very clear message to these families that the Estonian state will keep them today, but we will keep them in the future. It's very important. I am of the opinion that, in addition to indexing family allowances, we should think in the future that children's allowances should also be indexed, so that they also do not fall behind the cost of living and time. Today, the four political parties represented in the Riigikogu have a desire to contribute to how people can cope with the price crisis that hits families with lower incomes and families with children the most painfully. But it seems by force that in this matter we are with a coalition partner like the river on its different shores. The Centre Party does not want to cause any trouble, but it is very important for us to value people and to notice them in today's crisis situation. This is why we stand together behind the Child and Family Benefits Act, which aims to support families with Estonian children. The Centre Party calls on all political groups to support this draft, including the Reform Party. People need to be helped now and now in the face of frightening price increases and uncontrolled inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U255	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U256	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U257	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U258	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Fatherland Party has always been a party supporting families. Let us begin by saying that, as early as 2004, we were the ones who initiated the so-called maternity allowance. Let me remind you: 2011, the new coalition, we created a parent's salary or a mother's salary. We decided that there would be free higher education in Estonia so that our children could all study, regardless of the income of their families. We freed our homes from an underground tax. In 2016 we created a livelihood fund so that if the parents had broken up for some reason, the family and child would not suffer if the other party failed to pay the alimony. In 2017, we created support for a family rich in children. I myself was chairman of the Social Affairs Committee when that decision was made. And today we are discussing an increase in the same family allowance, the allowance for a family rich in children, because in five years this amount has been in the way of time. In 2018 we increased child benefit to 60 euros. 2020 additional income tax exemption for families with children, an additional EUR 1200 for families with three or more children per year. In the same year, the maternity pension also increased. And now we're hearing in this hall today where you're taking this money. Let's start with last year, because of Elering's activities, 180 million of the electricity prices from all of us were collected from our pockets. It's an overload charge for the network. It was taken from our pockets, from the pockets of all the people of Estonia. The same is happening this year. I don't know if some of you have a new power contract to sign. Today's friend called to conclude an electricity contract with Eesti Energia this month and received an offer for the next six months: the amount is 200 at night, 260 on the day. A year ago, it was under 50. We're saying we don't have any money. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you, read the extra budget, 800 million. The previous speaker of the Reform Party here said that 15 million of this 800 million were important for defence costs. After all, only 20 million higher education grants were needed, but this was not found in this 800 million. I dare say with a loud and clear voice that 200 million out of this 800 million is for the matter, but the rest is a lot of populism, an election campaign and everything. In other words, it seems that there is money. And when the additional budget is talking about the possibility of borrowing for this, it is now said that there is no money to support the children of Estonia. Today's government has taken away the support of hobbies from children. We'll give it a chance. Certainly in this draft, it is important that all children are treated equally, everyone receiving EUR 100. We support the birth of three and more children, because, as I always say in my home, the first child was mine, the second was my husband's and the third was the country's. Our three daughters have grown up and received higher education without support, although the last child received free education during higher education. It is important to support our own people. If we say that 50 euros of money distributed in the autumn can be paid with the loan money, or 30 million euros, then we will not receive a stable family allowance. We have made one mistake with family allowance so far that when an older child becomes an adult, or 19+, when he goes to school, the family allowance is lost. We're gonna fix that mistake. And I hope that we all read in the same way, regardless of whether or not an older child is already an adult, it is still a big family allowance, i.e. if there are at least three children in my family, those who are minors today, if there are two children, will receive two thirds, if there is one child, then one third, will receive family support. It doesn't happen that when February 1 comes, they say that if you have three underage children right now, you will. The representative of the Commission on the floor said that he understands as I do, that if the family is still raising three children, then it is family support for everyone. It is also very important that we index so that we do not have to discuss this every year. Now we see that when the family allowance was made in 2017, it was all okay, but time has done its job. The energy costs have gone to the ceiling. The shopping cart in the store is repeated as a year ago, and at the same time today's government has hardly done anything about how we're going to meet in the autumn. We're here every day discussing LNG. Today, I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications how this situation really is. Did Elering, who told Alexela a week ago that they wouldn't make the connection by this fall, do she or do she not? This is a very important subject. And this is where family support is vital for us so that young families can cope. You could handle today's crisis. And if anyone mentions again that there's no money for it... As this additional budget was discussed here, there was no real debate. In the Commission, there were 20 amendments for discussion in one minute, and in 10 minutes several hundred amendments were discussed, there was no question. This possibility of coming to the Chamber to discuss them, and perhaps some coalition politicians had supported some of the proposed improvements, was not. Then he will simply be bound by a vote of confidence, as we are discussing the next two points today. I believe that the Reform Party actually supports it in the heart too. There is a little politics here and everything else today, but I have repeatedly said from this speaker that all of us 101 members of the Riigikogu have come to this Riigikogu for one reason only. This is that we must care about our people in Estonia. We do all the work for our people in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U259	Thank you. There can be no further negotiations, all the political groups have spoken, and there are no other requests to speak. It is now the case that the commission has proposed to stop the first reading of draft 619, but the Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposes to reject the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act at first reading. We must vote on this rejection proposal. First, two minutes of the hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to reject the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U260	The rejection proposal is supported by 32 delegates, with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported and the procedure continues. [[Let's hear it.]] I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 3 p.m. on 1 June this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U261	We can move on to the agenda. Today's second item is the draft law on accessibility of products and services initiated by the Government of the Republic 511. This is a second reading of the draft, but the government has linked it to the question of trust, which is why the procedure is not normal; instead, the Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo comes to present the draft. Please! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's make the hall quieter, the Minister would like to start the speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, I am before you today at second and last reading, because it ends with a final vote on the draft accessibility of products and services. The focus of this draft is to improve people's daily lives by allowing for independent use of products and services that have not been accessible to date and for which additional assistance has been needed. Dealing with disabled people independently without assistance is a very important objective. When this draft is adopted, the daily environment will improve not only for people with disabilities but also for those who need accessible solutions. We have 12% disabled people in society. We have 20.3% of people aged 65 and over. We have 17% of people with visual loss in the 16 to 19-year-olds, but in the 40 to 49-year-olds we already have 24%. This means that accessibility not only affects 12% of people with disabilities, but also affects a large number of those who live next to us and for whom we may not even notice the importance of making one or another service or product available. The draft has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but the services and products are in the domain of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior, and are also related to the transposition of the European Union Directive, the date of which we already have 28 June this year. In parallel, implementing acts have been developed, in the same way in close cooperation with the aforementioned ministries. In the case of products, products that a person can use independently, such as a computer, a self-service terminal to purchase a ticket, or an ATM, will be made accessible. The draft proposes solutions to compensate for a lack of mind so that the product can still be used. The CE marking of the European Union applies to products. For services, e-commerce, e-books, electronic communications and banking services will be made accessible. The use of services via the Internet will become accessible to those who cannot use conventional solutions. The adoption of the law allows the use of environments where different services take place independently without assistance. The implementation of the draft is from 28 June 2025. This will provide an opportunity for three years to prepare for implementation. The terms and conditions set out in this draft will be monitored by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. However, it is important to note here that the products previously acquired are also used for the adoption of the law and that non-compliant solutions must not be brought to the market from 28 June 2025. However, the use of products already installed is possible until 2045. It is important to understand that the development of technological products and services is an opportunity for the smart digital state of Estonia and our entrepreneurs can also see their opportunities in it. It is also important that a large number of these services and products we are talking about have been produced outside Estonia, and the role of Estonian entrepreneurs is in many ways the role of the importer. This draft concerns an estimated 3500 companies, most of which are micro-enterprises. Only 100 of these companies are larger and will be subject to certain requirements. It is also noteworthy that the draft supports the activities of the State Chancellery Accessibility Task Force in 2020 and 2021 and the policy recommendations made there. The Task Force made recommendations in 12 areas. One of these recommendations was also the accession to this directive, in other words the adoption of this draft. Each bill also entails costs, although it must be acknowledged that the cost of this bill is marginal compared to the benefits that our people receive compared to a more accessible society. And so the planned costs for 2024 are EUR 150000 and EUR 195000 for 2027. We are mainly talking about additional training, mission, information, workplace and IT costs, as well as the labour costs needed by the Technical Monitoring and Consumer Protection Board. Now to the amendments that are compared to the original shape of the draft. There were 404 amendments tabled by the EKRE Group, with the exception of two amendments tabled by Jüri Jaanson, a member of the Riigikogu. Since these two amendments tabled by Jüri Jaanson have been accepted by the government in the last version of the draft and in the version before you, I will comment on these two. Namely, the Riigikogu recently passed the Media Services Act, which entered into force on 8 March 2022, and the obligation for an ex post evaluation by 2025 has also been introduced. With this amendment, made by Jüri Jaanson, we will increase the ex post evaluation to 2024. The aim is to achieve a situation where the Media Services Act, which essentially regulates services and technical aspects, i.e. these two laws would be compatible and that our living environment would become more accessible to people as early as possible. The second amendment is to harmonise the application time of the Media Services Act and the Accessibility Act requirements so that we can enforce both laws nicely by 28 June 2025. This is briefly from the draft. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U263	Yeah. Well, maybe I should have done an explanation for the procedure, but I'm doing it now. We have the right for every member of the Riigikogu to ask two questions and all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor in the negotiations. The only question now is Aivar Kokal. Please, Aivar!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U264	Good manager! Dear Minister, I would start by saying that this is a very important draft and I certainly support such a draft. Of course, it is a concern that private operators will have to guarantee access to buildings long ago. To date, the state and municipalities have not done so in a large number of buildings, including very many municipal houses, municipal buildings cannot be accessed. But I am surprised that the accessibility requirements of the service are not applied in the Public Transport Act on municipal, urban and county routes. This is, frankly, a completely anecdote, if I read what is not applicable, then everything that the state pays for will not apply, and everything that a private operator offers will apply. Why have such exceptions been introduced here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U265	Thank you for your question. This exception does not really concern this law, because regardless of who owns the means of transport, the services and products used in that means of transport must be uniformly accessible and monitored as from 28 June 2025. I would remind you that this draft only talks about digital solutions and digital products that are linked to this draft. Physical accessibility is a separate issue and it is regulated by a number of laws that we are not dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U266	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U267	Yeah, I'm going to be a little more specific. I think we misunderstood each other. If we look here at "Service accessibility requirements do not apply," this line is written here on "interactive self-service terminals" that are placed on these public transport buses. Maybe the service the country orders. And there's a whole line of them. It seems that everything that is financed by the State, or by any private company or anyone else, is financed by the State from the state budget, and does not apply to it. In my opinion, people with special needs deserve the support of the state in the matters it finances. I must admit that [I don't know] maybe the minister will say what the difference is between a person with a disability and a person with a special need. 15 years ago, they didn't say "with trees," they said "with special needs." Has this thing been changed in any way now, or what is this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U268	Thank you. The disabled person is the person who is a disabled person according to the Convention on Disabled Persons and who is also a disabled person in the Estonian legal area, as a result of the Social Benefits Act for Disabled Persons, where all these grounds for determining the degree of disability are defined. And when the severity of the disability is confirmed, the person is also a disabled person. It is, in a sense, a narrower circle of people than people with special needs. Even if we look at today's draft, people with special needs are also 17% of people aged 16 to 19 who have no disability, but who have a loss of vision and who need easier and more accessible ways to organise and manage their daily lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U269	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U270	Thank you. Your report didn't reveal what this war was all about. Is EKRE just raving, or did he have any arguments? What sections did he fight against, and what would your answer be to them in essence?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U271	Thank you for your question. The amendments mainly concerned the chapter on national supervision, according to which specific monitoring measures under the Law on Law Enforcement are given to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority as tools. This was the reason which then brought many amendments. These amendments were quite colourful and creative. A wide range of proposals were made which public authorities could supervise. However, I would say here that it is very common in the Estonian legal order to introduce such special measures for the supervision of law enforcement law. Thus, for example, we have exactly the same provisions in the Product Compliance Act, Consumer Protection Act, Electronic Communications Act, Equipment Safety Act, Measurement Act, Tourism, Ground, atmospheric air protection, Child Protection, Alcohol, Tobacco, Packaging, Waste, Biocidal Products, etc. Perhaps this is the way in which we have solved supervision in Estonia to ensure that services and subsidies are guaranteed, requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U272	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U273	Good manager! Good waitress! This directive has such a magical number on 28 June, but I think the final transposition was in 2030 and in the meantime it was either 2025 and so on. Why, then, are we in such a hurry now, when 28 June will come for many years to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U274	Yes, thank you! The deadline for transposition of this Directive is 28 June this year. As I said, there are three years to prepare the application and after the end of that three-year period, on 28 June 2025, services and products that do not meet the requirements must simply no longer be used. Until now, it is possible to continue to use these services and products, to continue to use them, and to continue to do so, until 2045 it will be possible to use the technical tools and services already in use.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U275	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U276	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am very pleased that this draft is now in this Chamber and in the final vote, even though the vote of confidence is an extreme option. But I would say that this accessibility we have been discussing or developing here for a long time. We have been talking since 2012 when we ratified the UN Convention on the International Rights of Persons with Disabilities here, and since then we have dealt with a large number of proposals to improve accessibility. Can the current government confirm that, even after the adoption of this bill, continuous work will continue on embracing and improving accessibility in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U277	Thank you very much, Mr. Jüri Jaanson. Accessibility is never ready. It's something you have to build all the time and all the time. As people's needs, expectations and environments change around us, accessibility must also be built at all times. We have a large number of proposals from the task force of the State Chancellery. We have to move on with them. And in order to move forward with them, a cross-ministerial pilot project has been launched to monitor and learn how we can best design and ensure these accessibility requirements for society.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U278	I'm asking for silence at the end of the hall. It's very disturbing. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U279	Thank you. I asked, on the first question, what are the paragraphs that the EKRE is fighting against and why it must be bound with confidence. I thought this was serious. You were talking about how there are special instruments for enforcing the law that says to me, as a non-lawyer, that electric shocks, handcuffs, probably a rubber baton are being used. Why do you want this? It's a police state. Please specify your answer. Is there any hope?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U280	Thank you very much, Mr Jürgen Ligi, for the clarification question. There is no need to fear, and the specific measures that can be implemented by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority under the Law on Law Enforcement are, inter alia, identification and access to premises. These are quite normal measures to carry out surveillance procedures. As I read earlier here, we have a whole series of laws according to which all this has been implemented for years, and so far it has not been heard that there was a problem with the so-called police state. I see this as the creation of the possibility that we have a secure society that all parties can understand that when supervision is carried out, which rules and who have exactly what rights. These rights, which have been granted here by law of law, must certainly never be exceeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U281	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. Now we can open negotiations. Kert Kingo, please! [[Kert Kingo's asking for more time.]] Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The explanatory memorandum to the bill is proud, gives a lot of hope and gives a lot of faith. However, as has already become the practice of this government, the impression is that the problem is being dealt with, but only a little is being done. At the same time, the bigger problem remains unresolved, only cosmetic finishing will be addressed. I am talking about the possibility of hearing impaired and visually impaired in the field of education. It's not being dealt with. There is no desire to address the major problem of access to educational institutions, i.e. learning. This should be a priority: ensuring equal opportunities for all to participate in teaching. But it's not dealt with. This bill regulates technical products, digital services, and they are inadequate. Unthinkingly, visually impaired people have access to ATMs. It is intended to provide a service, such as the possibility of using headphones, but how to safely reach an ATM located on the second floor of the shopping centre, for example, is not solved. The TTJA deals with the technical side, the equipment. Who is involved in making it possible to reach these devices at all? It is very difficult for a visually impaired person to search a large shopping centre and find this machine, an ATM that has now been enabled, yes, indeed, to add headphones to be heard. But it's not dealt with. This is just one example, but there are many things left unsolved. So this bill is not only half the homework, but a quarter, if that's what it is. However, it has been considered important to give the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority the rights of the law enforcement authority, such as forced arrest, entry into possession, check-out of premises, storage of movable property. When I asked specialists and officials about the need for such measures, there were no answers. When I asked what movable property and for what reason it was necessary to deposit it, there was no answer. They said they were just paragraphs. Or why is there a need for a review of the premises when we are talking about technical control? Why does the TTJA, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, have to do so? Now another repressive body has been made of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, who can penetrate the premises, take things into storage, look things through. A legitimate question arises as to what we have to deal with by the police when all kinds of authorities have been granted rights, which so far have been mainly in the police field. I would remind you that the Health Board has also been granted exactly the same rights. Then why do we have the police? We have so far extended the rights of the police everywhere and everywhere, to all institutions. This is not correct legislation. The general picture of the draft is that the focus is on creating a penal society rather than on improving the provision of services and products to people with special needs. It was a line through this bill. Since the current procedure, i.e. the vote of confidence, did not allow the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to present and process amendments to this draft, the Estonian Conservative People's Party cannot support this draft. And the government's confidence in this matter is impossible for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U283	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U284	I would now present it on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party and on behalf of myself, so I will ask for a maximum time of 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U285	You'll have to go twice then. Once you go away, you go back from the remote, and then you come back. I can't keep going. Eight minutes and you'll be back. On behalf of the Reform Party, Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U286	But I'd start for myself. First of all, on the question of Aivar Koka, what is the difference between a person with a disability and a person with a special need? As a person with disabilities, the state selects us to learn for itself, and a person with special needs is the essence of the matter. I personally, who has also been defined by the state as a disabled person, do not like this selection at all. I hope that, in the distant future, there will never be a definition of "disabled people." Because "person with special needs" basically says it. Now, what the previous speaker was talking about here, about the accessibility of hearing people to educational institutions or blind problems. I would say that, unfortunately, the previous speaker is not very familiar with the subject and does not even listen to the target group itself. It's a very big problem. Now, what I would like to say is that I have dealt with the draft on accessibility of products and services as a representative of the lead committee. The law itself is a long-running thing and actually expresses the beginning of one end of endless expectation. Technically, the draft is a transposition of the Euro Directive and will improve accessibility to digital solutions, also within the minimum range, but the positive side is that in three years' time the same accessibility requirements will apply throughout the European Union. This was only recently, in 2012, when we ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Riigikogu. It also contains Article 9 on the need for accessibility and the necessity for people with special needs. I recall that in the Media Services Act, for example, the accessibility point has been included since at least 2010 and in the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act since at least 2007. For many years, these same hearing impaired people have been waiting for the President's speech to be part of the Republic's birthday or New Year's Eve, or for blind people to use ATMs, payment terminals or validation machines in public transport on their own. This is a big step forward in that sense when it happens. Coping with people on their own is very important. But these are all the details that don't really appear in the big picture of society. The transposition of the Accessibility Directive and the urgent need for the draft have been highlighted by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, as well as the associations of different types of disability with their joint letter. The Committee on Social and Cultural Affairs of the Riigikogu has also expressed its support for the draft. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which did not have any complaints about the draft, has also expressed its favourable attitude. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the previous paragraph of the sitting, let us keep in mind that families with children are under the special care of the state and local authorities. But so are people with disabilities. Article 28 of the Constitution, let us recall that. Why are we talking a lot less about this? It is completely incomprehensible and frustrating when drafts relating to accessibility are used as an instrument of political obstruction. The commission wanted to process the draft by involving all parties of the Riigikogu and representatives of the target group. Unfortunately, it ran into the rigid opposition of one of the parties, à la either do what we want or do a complete obstruction. The Riigikogu has developed a new structure culture in the form of numerous amendments. Its use is understandable for truly polarising drafts, but the use of the Accessibility Bill as part of the implementation of its general policy, as the Estonian Conservative People's Party does, is not acceptable. They themselves declared that they did not object to accessibility. Only one detail, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority doesn't like it. However, for years, the best information and information on accessibility has been concentrated there, and it is not conceivable to pass on their role to another agency. That is why there is a full-scale obstruction and rigid opposition, despite the fact that there are already at least eight laws that have completely the same supervision as the one that did it, and nine other laws that have partly similar points. That is why, in the total amount of political will, we have reached the point that we need to develop accessibility in the country through an extreme political instrument, a vote of confidence by the Government of the Republic. On the contrary, my very sincere thanks go to another opposition party, the social democrats, of whom, unfortunately, none are in this Chamber right now. But I sincerely thank them for expressing their unconditional support for the draft on accessibility of products and services. Thank you if you can hear me! I would also like to thank my coalition partner and fellows from the political party, as well as the officials of the Economic Commission, for their joint efforts. And, of course, the Government of the Republic, thanks to whom we have been able to bring the bill to the hall. As a vote of confidence, but still. I am also pleased here that the draft on the accessibility of products and services is being adopted along with amendments to the Media Services Act, which harmonises the implementation of accessibility requirements for the content of audiovisual services at the same time as those for audiovisual transmission services. Both apply on 28 July 2025. And finally. Accessibility has taken major steps in our society over the last ten years. Society is gradually embracing accessibility and increasingly involving disabled people in society. For example, there are people sailing in wheelchairs last Saturday for the first time in their lives. Unfortunately, much more work is yet to be done to ensure that accessibility in society is taken for granted and as a natural part of space design. The Reform Party will continue to work on this and invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote today in favour of the draft law on accessibility of products and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U287	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Isamaa Group considers the adoption of the law on accessibility of products and services to be important. We are in principle also in favour of this draft, but of course we want the draft procedure in Parliament to be carried out in accordance with good culture and practice and with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Unfortunately, this cannot be said about the processing of this draft, because the government coalition, the government, has decided to link the processing of this draft to a vote of confidence in the Riigikogu. This means that there can be no parliamentary debate here, no second and third readings normally taking place, no amendments to be discussed, no processing and no voting is possible. Take it or leave it. We would support the draft and maybe in the course of the procedure it could be made even better, but these tools will be taken away from us. We have a choice: to support the draft and, at the same time, to support the government, the government, which is incapacitated today, and for whom the Prime Minister says that this coalition is no longer in existence. We do not want to support such a government. In this forced choice, we are voting against the draft today, but not because of the content of the draft, but because it relates to a matter of trust and excludes Parliament's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U289	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U290	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are actually discussing such a very important and important amendment to the law on accessibility of products and services. At first glance, it looks like it's all very good. But the question is, there are also very serious danger signs. The first warning sign was already evident at first reading when it became clear that this law grants the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which is the national supervisory authority, a huge number of rights. Now he is also involved in a vote of confidence. Perhaps it needs to be taken very quickly. And the reason is obvious: because it is a trend towards a new world order. Since the police have little resources, many policemen have been released, also because they have not been vaccinated, but the units needed to bring people to order need to be created quickly. And the easiest way to do that is through different agencies. I'm not going to talk here right now, which is the good part of this law, but I'm going to talk about what's really bad. First of all, what rights are granted to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority under the Law on Law Enforcement? These are: questioning and requesting documents. Do you remember how during the period of validity of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, health officials [people] questioned and requested documents? Of course, there were also police officers in their ranks who did so in particularly repressive methods. It shall be further granted the right to invite persons to the offices of the Office and, if the person does not wish to come, may be subject to compulsory removal. Worst of all, you can use direct coercion. What this immediate coercion means, I'll tell you at the end of my speech. Further identification, as well as direct coercion, may be established, by the way, by the transfer of minors to law enforcement bodies. And it is quite interesting that the Technical Surveillance Authority may also interfere in identifying the identity of a person detained in a mass disorder. Perhaps this is the first sign that it is a repressive body. The Office shall also be authorised to examine movable property without the consent of its holder. And what else can I add? Also in its review of movable matters... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U291	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U292	...can also be seen without the presence of this person. And there is also the right to use direct coercion. The Technical Surveillance Authority shall also be authorised to enter the premises without the holder's consent in respect of immovable property, buildings, dwellings or spaces in its possession, including opening doors, gates and other obstacles. In addition, a dwelling may only be entered if it cannot be communicated by reasonable effort and entry is necessary for the prevention of disorder or imminent increased threat. In other words, this office has been granted unlimited rights at any time, under the pretext of heightened danger, to enter human property. Another direct coercion may be used if it is necessary to achieve the objective, to examine matters in the possession. An immediate coercion may also be used in the review if this is indispensable for the achievement of the objective. May also take things for safekeeping, once again an immediate coercion. So what's the immediate coercion? The immediate coercion is to influence a person, animal or thing by physical force, special means or weapon. A special instrument is an animal or thing intended to affect a person physically and which is not a weapon. The weapon, as we know, is a weapon of fire in the arms laws. And what other special tools can be used to influence people? Handcuffs, leg cuffs, bandages, relaxing shirt... Dear Jüri Jaanson is laughing, but I am quoting the law now. ... service animal... Remember, on the pretext of the Nets, when there were demonstrations here on Toompea, a service animal was used. Of course, there are little things like water cannons and means of forced stopping the vehicle. Perhaps this is the creation of a new repressive body by the government. And who says that this is not right, remember when the Health Board was granted rights under the NETS, or the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases. Remember how people were put in a police car, how they intervened in their free movement, demanded documents, taken away, humiliated them? What happened with the Nets is just foreplay for what's coming. No matter how good this law is, such measures cannot and must not be granted to the Agency for Technical Surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U293	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We also need to make the final vote on this draft. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final vote on the draft 511. I vote on the draft law on accessibility of products and services initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 511. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U294	The result, by 59 and against 27, was supported by the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U295	Our third item today is the second reading of the Bill 572 on the Order of the Defence Forces Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (transfer of vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence). On this draft too, the Government of the Republic has asked for it to be discussed as a matter of trust. Secretary of Defense, Kalle Laaneti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm in front of you again, this time in the Department of Defense, prepared by the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces and the Law on the Amendment of Other Laws. The draft establishes legal bases for the transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Ministry of Defence. To this end, ten relevant laws will be amended. The interconnecting of the fleets has been on the table of different governments for the last few decades. At the end of last year, Kaja Kallas' government decided that the time for discussions had passed and that two fleets would be integrated to ensure better maritime security in Estonia. Unfortunately, at the stage of the proceedings of the Riigikogu, 267 amendments to the draft were made for the purpose of obstruction, i.e. the procedure of the draft, which is important for Estonia's security, was directly intended to be delayed. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In order to avoid this, we have linked the draft to the government's vote of confidence so that we can adopt the largest cross-cutting state reform of recent times. Merging the fleets will provide Estonia with a comprehensive maritime security capability both during peace and in crisis. It improves the awareness and responsiveness of the situation in the Estonian sea area and provides Estonia with a better defence capacity and creates prerequisites for the allies to respond to the potential conflict in the region. A faster response will also significantly increase our deterrence. The transfer of the four vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Defence Forces does not undermine the performance of civil tasks or reduce the current level of performance, as ships retain the capabilities they have today. The use of more ships will also improve the protection of the entire coastal area. The Defence Forces will be responsible for the awareness of the situation at sea. The change will significantly improve our awareness of the situation at sea, as it will allow us to put together different images of sea movements and to be more and smarter at sea. The Defence Forces will be responsible for maritime border surveillance, including the operation of marine surveillance radar. The amendment will provide Estonia with greater visibility at sea and more active action will prevent the threat from occurring and reduce the opponent's desire to test us in our waters. In addition, there is an increase in preparedness for operational intervention in the event of a threat. Defence forces will also be responsible for detecting and eradicating marine pollution in the sea area. This will provide a better opportunity to prepare for crises and to make the necessary plans for response. The Police and Border Guard Board remains responsible for sea rescue and is responsible for the search and rescue work in the Estonian sea area. The Defence Forces will be involved in sea rescue at the same time as the ships. The moment of time is suitable for making changes, as within this decade the end of life will reach 50% of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board and 100% of the Defence Forces ships. The interconnection of fleets will also make it possible to significantly restructure the number, type and capacity of vessels deployed to ensure the sustainability of maritime security. The interconnection of fleets is also a forward-looking reform, which will give us the opportunity in the future to acquire common platforms to fulfil all the necessary tasks, both at national level and in the Baltic Sea region as a whole, and to make coherent investments to ensure maritime security. In this way, we will be able to obtain a better service by developing together in the future. The momentum of the reform is also based on Russia's war against Ukraine, which started on 24 February 2022. We must do everything at national level to be prepared for similar aggression against us. The planned interconnection of fleets will give us a better and faster maritime capacity to protect the territorial integrity of our country and its citizens. I assure you that with this reform, Estonia will actually get a better navy. In addition, Finland and Sweden are expected to join NATO soon. As a result, the security situation in the Baltic Sea will significantly change for us. The Baltic Sea will essentially become the internal sea of NATO. Together with our good current and future allies, we can build a top-notch maritime awareness of our maritime areas, which will result in seeing and hearing the movement of every craft in the Baltic Sea. This is all supported by the planned reform of the interconnection of fleets, where the conditions of employment of staff coming from the Police and Border Guard Board to the Defence Forces, such as salaries, special pensions and so on, will not change significantly. The best solution for transition will be found for all people. And finally. I thank all those who have contributed to the preparation of this reform, and I very much hope that the honourable Riigikogu will support it today. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U297	Heiki Hepner would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U298	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd actually like a little bit of your broader opinion or your view of it. In my opinion, we were very close to a common position in the Commission, and in essence, one could say, there was only one word of debate or debate. As far as I know, without having to be some kind of EKRE lawyer here in the Commission, the EKRE also stated directly that it would withdraw all the remaining proposals. It was incomprehensible why the government bound it... How did you find it impossible to process this in a democratic process, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U299	Thank you for your question. Your sense was right to a certain extent, but not to the end, because it was very clear that there would be no solution to one issue. This was exceptionally the case in the smaller islands with regard to law enforcement tasks. Two people disagreed with that party you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U300	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U301	Thank you. It wasn't quite a full answer, but I'm not interested in this detail, although you might want to clarify it, but why the EKRE is raving again. As far as we have the information, the EKRE officers are behind this on the National Defence Committee. This has been done by my memory since the 0's, the differences between the authorities have been eliminated, the experts of the EKRE are in favour, and then there will be hundreds of amendments again. How do you explain this contradiction within the EKRE? Why does the whole parliament and government have to dance to the EKRE again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U302	I believe that this question should be asked by you in that left-hand row and back there. Why did Mart and Martin Helme not agree? We should ask them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U303	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U304	Thank you. The border guard was built on a military border guard. This was helped by our Finnish border guard colleagues. That's what you've been able to destroy. You've made the police today, and the police are guarding the border. Now it's exactly the same with the ships. The Finnish border guard ships have all the mine-watering capabilities and are in charge of border guarding this border. Now the ships will be taken away. This is very interesting for this government of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U305	I understand it wasn't a question, but I can tell you that if you read the bill, you would also understand that the duty to guard the border goes to the Defence Forces, or the Navy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U306	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U307	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Explain it to me. Here our colleagues suggested that during the war, this border guard could go under the Defence Forces, but now it is not as systemic as it is, at sea the border guard will be moved there under the Defence Forces, the Defence Forces will be dealt with. But in the case of land, there's a different reality, there's still a p.P.A., and there's cops on the border. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U308	If, good Peter, the content of your question was whether the Commander of the Defence Forces could take full responsibility for defending the Estonian state at the border, then I say that we are basically willing to analyse how best to do so, so that Estonia is protected in the best way. Surely it cannot be ruled out that one day it will happen. But you can't do it with a fingertip or overnight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U309	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U310	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Actually, it was a bit of a surprise for me, too. I also have these extracts from our protocols in the committee where we discussed it, [and I do not know] that there would have been a problem with the law enforcement of the small islands or a debate about it. It's like I don't get it. I am saying that for me, this form of trust is more than surprising. It just might really have required a little more patience than average. At least I felt that it would certainly have been possible to come to a consensus. But I don't know now, really, I didn't find anything on small island law enforcement in these protocols either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U311	I thank you for that comment. I have different information again. And as you know, I also know that you have the last three weeks that you can process the drafts during the summer period. You also know that 1 January 2023 has two organisations in place, people are aware of it. Each of these stretches gives rise to hesitation and suspicion. Any such delay actually undermines our security, or readiness. That is why we cannot play with Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U312	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U313	Good manager! Good waitress! Thank you for the hope that one day a military border guard might come. But that's my question. There are many examples here that will now be dealt with by the Defence Forces or by border guards. For example: According to the reporter, the girlfriend had to be on Prangli Island and had called to say that she had a rope around her neck and had been said goodbye. A girlfriend is 15 years old, she's been depressed for a long time, and she's been talking about suicide before, she's done suicide attempts before, and she's broken up with this 15-year-old girl from a long-term relationship, and she's learned that her loved one's been cheating on her for months. This is one of the examples with which the reasons why the border guards need to link these four ships to the Defence Forces. Is this like serious talk? There are a dozen of these examples. Will the Defence Forces be handling this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U314	I think you're linking the incoherent. The question has been why, for example, the Navy, or the Defence Forces, should react to events arriving at the Marine Guard Centre in order to save human lives and health, right? When human life and health are at risk, it is the duty of every citizen in our country to respond to it. And if the navy is able to do so without prejudice to any specific tasks of the navy from the point of view of national defence, it should respond. It has something to do with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U315	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U316	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! There have been a number of such statements in this Chamber, which are a little touchy in themselves. One of the questioners said that we are now acting against the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. We're not gonna do that. Such a format for the adoption of laws is entirely prescribed by law. Then others have expressed surprise that they do not know why the government committed this and the previous draft to trust. As was not so much work to be done, a few individual amendments should be voted through. And then I think that I heard it ten days ago or eight days ago in Vikerraadio, Samost and Aspõri there was a show, they also said that they did not know why the government bound them with confidence, because a few dozen amendments were only made. Now, I'm looking at these drafts here, the previous one was made in 404, and this one is now 270. Everyone's pointless, let's be honest. Now, I'm asking you, hey, is the bill cheating? Or ERR journalists, God forbid... (Director: "Time! " Maybe they were wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U317	Thank you for that question. I have to admit that even there were 270 amendments that I personally might have liked, because it had been made clear that the burden on the Minister should be reduced and that this amendment should be made. I am extremely pleased to read that opposition politicians are concerned about the burden on the Minister. However, with regard specifically to the journalists of the ERR, they may indeed have been caught in the fingers of some wrong bill that they could not finish reading how many amendments there were.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U318	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U319	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Well, first of all, to add to the questioner: I remember very well how the Reform Party here proposed improvements in the form of an obstruction, where it suggested that we step out of NATO and join Russia. So these were certainly very substantive proposals and particularly feasible in the current war situation. But I would like to make a comment. In fact, borderboats have been very often the ones that have delivered ambulances and other representatives of rescue organisations to the smaller islands. It is clear that this practice will now cease to function. This will certainly undermine the availability of the necessary services for the inhabitants of the smaller islands. But the question relates to this bill. The bill also says that the Defence Forces will have law enforcement rights. Would you like to comment on what that means? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What, is the militia gonna be a gendarmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U320	Thank you, dear Mart Helme. First of all, the Police and Border Guard Board has speedboats, the four largest ships are included in the Navy's view of this bill. So when you're talking about speedboats, these speedboats are exactly the same as they used to be able to deliver medical personnel and all those that need to be taken quickly to the small islands. As far as law enforcement rights are concerned, I touched on this issue for a moment too, the granting of law enforcement rights and obligations in exceptional cases to respond if, in the small islands, for example, an officer of the Police and Border Guard Board is unable to react, the navy would react at the request of the Marine Guard Centre, if this reaction did not undermine the performance of the Navy's duties at that moment. It is only when people's lives and health are at risk. As a monitoring mechanism, it is also written that the Ministry of the Interior must periodically report on how many times the honourable and honourable Riigikogu has been reacted. Perhaps civilian control is also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U321	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U322	Thank you. Well, as your previous statement pointed out, it could have been a very nice compromise and approved of our proposals. And that original reason, which you pointed out, you admitted yourself, or it came out, isn't true either. But that's it. It is precisely because we are engaged in dialogue, but, as you can see, the coalition has absolutely no desire to do so. So in the future, if all the drafts, if your government continues at all, can be linked to a vote of confidence, then there is no need for Parliament. But I am surprised by the argument that the defence forces can deal with some 15-year-old suicide and love stories, if it doesn't damage defense... and environmental pollution and all that... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you really think the armed forces have nothing better to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U323	Thank you, good Henn Põllamaas! I imagine that, as your defence ally, when a person's life is in danger and health is in danger, you will also react, despite the fact that this is not your daily duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U324	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U325	Thank you. You suggested on my first question that I check with the EKRE, but the EKRE hasn't agreed on what it's against. He's got hundreds of amendments, one's talking about some boat, it's not true, the other's talking about small islands. And then, in my opinion, there will be a moment of sincerity where it is said that you have destroyed the border guard instead. Am I wrong, however, that the whole thing is because of the nostalgia of the border guard and this scrambled foam that we have the border police instead of the border guard? Can I be wrong? You have been more involved in this procedure, not a member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U326	I believe certain officials and uniforms still have nostalgia in their minds. But I think the most important thing is that the Estonian state is protected in the best way. In reality, there were basically two key points. The first key point was where we had almost reached a compromise, which was that, in the context of increased preparedness, defence of the border would basically go under the command of the Defence Forces. We were there setting deadlines for how we could move forward. And the second question was that the performance of law enforcement tasks in the smaller islands, i.e. whether the Defence Forces should, if they do not have specific tasks that undermine the security of the Estonian state, react to the events of the smaller islands, which are basically passed on to them by the Marine Guard Centre. There was no agreement in this regard, and therefore we are today in this form with a government bill before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U327	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U328	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U329	I'm opening negotiations. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U330	I'm asking for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U331	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U332	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On this draft, EKRE tabled 269 amendments, 266 of which were obstructive and three were substantive. However, we did not vote at all in committee on these obstructive amendments, or from the beginning we wanted to find a reasonable compromise. I am talking now about some of the efforts that we made, what we wanted and in which we tried to find a compromise, and in which we found, where we did not find and why. The first question was, as Mr Jürgen quite rightly mentioned, at the land border. Perhaps this is what one of our proposals was about. After we had worked on the Commission, we reached a consensus that we could sign it up as a task in the Defence Forces Order Act, so that the Defence Forces would be responsible for protecting the land border during martial law and for preparing for martial law. We made positive progress on this issue and reached consensus. The second question concerned the urgent competence of the Defence Forces. Perhaps by taking over these four ships, the Defence Forces would also take over the functions of the four ships they had in the PBA. I will read the text and then comment on what is here and what the problem was. "The urgent competence of the Defence Forces. If the Police and Border Guard Board cannot or cannot, in due course, control the immediate threat to the health or life of a person in the Estonian sea area or in the small island and does not significantly impede the performance of the duties of the Defence Forces, the Defence Forces may, at the decision of the Police and Border Guard Board and on the basis of urgent competence, apply general national supervision measures and special national supervision measures laid down in §§ 30, 32 and 4452 of the Law Enforcement Act on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Law Enforcement Act. " Perhaps they are just police measures in the language of the country. In general, if we do not have any special legal arrangements in the country, i.e. we do not have an emergency, emergency or martial law, the Defence Forces have no police functions. The military police can also apply police functions during peacetime only to military personnel. As long as no special legal arrangements are in place, the Defence Forces have had no such competences. Now we've proposed a solution that if you take over this function, this function would remain with the entity that takes over. Perhaps the same four ships, which now form a new unit in the Defence Forces, the name of which will be the division of the guard ships, would be handed over and then fixed here. We proposed such a solution. Now, if police powers were to be arbitrarily extended to the entire Defence Forces outside the country's special legal regimes, this would not be absolutely reasonable from the point of view of fundamental freedoms and human rights. In order to be clear on this issue, I asked the Commission to write a letter to the Chancellor of Justice and ask him if he saw a problem here or not. But, unfortunately, we did not receive an answer from the Chancellor of Justice, perhaps the Chancellor of Justice replied that he would not give us an answer. That, in that sense, leaves the question in the air. It would be much safer and calmer if we had received a firm response so that such conferral of competences on the Defence Forces, without imposing special law regimes, would in no way offend people's fundamental rights or freedoms, but we did not receive such an answer. Our aim was to work in the Commission from the outset and to find a reasonable compromise and a solution to all these issues, but we could not find a simple solution to this question because this connection took place before our committee could even finish this issue. I guess the government of the Republic just lost their nerves. You didn't have to do that. I think that if we had done further work, we would have found a compromise, we could have withdrawn all these obstructive proposals and essentially resolved this issue. What really worries me about the bigger picture? It's the seventh bill that the government has committed to mistrust. The previous government did this once, and this was about the second pension pillar. Of course, it's quite an opportunity, but when it gets so dense, there's a question about what's the name of the new era we've entered. All governments, however, have not had any exceptions here before, a road roll policy has been applied to the opposition, although the actual content of the policy should be to seek compromises. This policy has gradually developed over 20 years. Gradually. And now that the Estonian Conservative People's Party has made a stronger obstruction to such a policy, it has actually come to a new era, perhaps called the era of the megaroad roll. The government is simply linking the drafts to distrust in succession and is not trying to find political compromises. What, then, would be the opposition's answer to that? Of course, I have no answer to that question. In my opinion, this draft itself should not have been linked, nor would it have been necessary to bind [the vote of confidence], because I can assure you that both Mr Alar Laneman and I have done this work sincerely in order to find reasonable compromises and propose solutions, to bring them to the group and to work with them in such a way that we can finally find consensus here. But the question about the powers of the Defence Forces remains, and it doesn't go away by itself. What competences do we want, what police powers do we want and are willing to give to the Defence Forces without any special law order? That is why, unfortunately, although there are many good things in this draft, we cannot support it in any way as a group because of its commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U333	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces and other laws will transfer ships belonging to the Police and Border Guard Board to the Ministry of Defence. By adopting this draft, an important reform will be carried out, which will benefit Estonia's maritime security, improve Estonia's independent defence capabilities, increase our ability to react in the sea area in the long term, and we will get a better view of what is happening at our sea. Fleet coupling has been on the table of different governments for the last 30 years, but for various reasons, it has not been possible to lead to the finish line in the past. Today, the Honourable Legislative Assembly has this opportunity and, if the bill is approved, four large ships belonging to the MPA will move within the Navy: General Kurvits, Pikker, Raju and Valve. It is not just a matter of moving large ships. The integration of marine systems is also crucial. This will significantly improve our awareness of what is happening at sea. We can even better and more broadly monitor the movement at sea and what is happening in the waters. The Defence Forces will be responsible for maritime border surveillance, including operating marine surveillance radars. Securing a conscious and well-identified view of the sea is important for our NATO allies, and therefore our security perspective, and connecting will improve our security. The moment of time for the changes is appropriate, as within this decade, the end of life will reach 50% of the PBGB's ships and all the Defence Forces' ships. In this way, Estonia will be able to significantly reorganize the capabilities of the ships, make joint investments and acquire common platforms for all necessary tasks to ensure the sustainability of our maritime security. So once again, not only the ships, but also the tasks with them. The Defence Forces will also be responsible for detecting and eradicating marine pollution in the sea area, ensuring maritime border surveillance and participating in maritime rescue with the Defence Forces' ships. The PBGB is responsible for maritime rescue and border guards and pollution response. For our maritime borders to be guarded and for maritime safety to be guaranteed, the Defence Forces will also be given the appropriate law enforcement powers and rights. One important change is also the introduction of the Marine Operations Centre and the Marine Guard Centre into one place, which will help to integrate the work of these two centres much better and improve the necessary exchange of information. But today's changes do not provide for the legal unification of the two centres. Overall, the legislative amendment increases maritime security and brings significant added value. More days at sea, more security for people on the sea, and more security for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U335	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U336	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's security environment sets out the task for us to do the best to empower Estonia's defence and security, both in terms of financial decisions and in the form of time-critical adoption of organisational decisions. The draft concerns the marine domain. Estonia is a sea state. And, in addition to joining the fleets, I would still like to draw down significant changes in maritime security, i.e. first of all the situation awareness, maritime surveillance radar. This is crucial to our defence, our security. This bill combines this capability under the Defence Forces. Secondly, management, coordination and information exchange of all operations. Perhaps the Marine Operations Centre and the Marine Guard Centre will be located in one place. This will certainly enhance cooperation. As far as obstruction is concerned, in the interests of the verbatim report, I would like to make it clear that there were indeed 276 amendments which depended on three real proposals, one on land borders and two on social guarantees. Indeed, the National Defence Committee discussed several and several times and we tried to find consensus. And we found this consensus. But then a new issue came up, which was not an amendment. So the issue of law enforcement functions came in addition to what had originally been agreed. In this, too, we tried to find a common position in several meetings of the Commission. However, this did not work because the EKRE Group was unable to coordinate the efforts of these representatives during the meetings of the Commission. Then another obstacle or suggestion came that we would send it to the Chancellor of Justice. Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice gave the answer that he could not take a position, he did not take that position, and this is a very-very legal approach to his appointment. Perhaps there was no prospect that our views would be consensually resolved. So it happened like it did. Today, this bill has to do with the issue of trust. But when I come back to the beginning of my story, I say that this is a time-critical decision, which is actually crucial for Estonia's security, especially the maritime domain. I therefore call for everyone to support the draft and to adopt it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U337	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U338	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As I have just heard, this is a time-critical draft, and because of this, the government... I do not know if the government is the same government at all, because recently the Reform Party remained in a minority with 32 votes. But that's it. We are now on the Sixth Bill, which the government has now had to commit to trust in a short time. So this is already a clear indication of today's failure by the Reform Party to vote on family benefits. It shows that it's still pretty complicated, to say the least. What does that mean? I like the systemic approach. But if you look at the whole now, the border is characteristic of each country, Estonia also has a border on the mainland, on the one hand, it is one reality, on the lake, Lake Peipsi-Pihkva has the same laws as in the case of guarding the land border, but there is another reality at sea with this bill. Although the border is the same, the enemy can come from here, from there, and from the third side. But somehow the whole view hasn't been made. EKRE has been talking about the restoration of military border guards. One can see that if a step has been taken at sea that way, you could say that the first step in the right direction has been taken. But it would also require another step in the right direction, including the border on land or lakes. A second step should also be taken. As I heard from the Minister of Defence, it cannot be ruled out that at some point this step might be taken. So on this point, you might want to take a good step, but it's on the one side. On the other hand, it can be said that this is a step when these four border guards are handed over to the Defence Forces. This actually reduces the possibility that the military border guard we have been standing for with the EKRE drum is gone and now there is nothing to save. That's when you look at this thing from the other side. But yes, it's four ships. Four ships: Admiral Kurvits, Piker, Guard and Raju. They are added to the Navy, there are such ships as Rooland and Risto, Admiral Cowan, Sakala, Ugandi and Vambola and Aleksandra also. So actually eight ships, four more, fleet half the size. You could say in favour of a joke: maybe the idea is that now the Commander of the Navy could also think of full Admiral stars, because the fleet is still half the size of the fleet. I don't think it's meant to be, but I don't know, because all military personnel have it in their dreams somewhere. It is said here, on the one hand, that if you put together all this fleet, it will be easier to make these procurements because most are old people. As I understand it, half of the four border guard ships must start working hard this decade. But all the navy's are all the same old ones, there's a hundred percent, as much as you can see in the papers. What will this group do now that they are united under common command and perhaps another admiral? It's particularly funny to watch... Oh, by the way, once again, in the case of harmonisation, the police and border guards still have a flight squad. There is no difference, there is a border, but for some reason those who move in the sky have been left with their helicopters and planes, a flight squad. So there's no holistic approach. But if you look at the explanatory statement, there are some interesting things that the military is going to do now. And I stress, if there's nothing else to do. Well, for example, the PSAP is getting word that a drunk person who's missed a boat in Naissaar was driving a stolen rowboat to Kakumägi. First thing. That's another thing. The husband comes to the other and twists his hand. The attacking husband is drunk...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U339	Do you need three extra minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U340	Yeah, it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U341	Then please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U342	The husband closes himself in the bathroom and calls the emergency room. Third, the alarm center is informed that somebody in a Prangli boat has gone to take the moonshine to a nearby wide area, where there is a group of young minors. Fourth: According to the notifier, we were supposed to be friends on the island of Prangli and had called to say that he had a rope around his neck, that's what I was talking about here, 15 years old, in a long-term relationship, depressed and so on. Fifth: Aegna has a young tent camp where they have a crocodile, codeine, petrol, paint thinner, sulphuric acid, iodine and phosphorus mixed up in a drug, and they're gonna have fun with it. Or for example: Vormsi has a 40-year-old woman aggressive, throws and takes things away, running around naked all day, even though it's the end of November outside. And so on. Or: The alarm center has received word that a woman who has just been released from prison is on her way to the victim on a small island to avenge her indictment. I'm not going to read any more of these stories. Now all of this must be dealt with by our Defence Forces, in case he has nothing else to do. But if there's anything else to do, the naked woman who runs in November with a mess on Prangli... Somehow Prangli is a very active place here. And so on and so forth. I don't know if that's smart. Besides, I'm not sure the Defence Forces have anything else to do at this point. The funniest thing is to tie all this to a vote of confidence. I would stress that one way or another, yes has been taken in the right direction, but this would also require a second step towards a similar reality on land and on the lake, a military border guard, and not just during the war. Otherwise, that's the bill, but, well, obviously, we're worth it to come out with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U343	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is undoubtedly important and relevant in its substance. Merging the fleets will certainly increase our defence capabilities, improve the speed of response at sea and increase the awareness of what is happening at sea, as well as the flow of information. I think, in this sense, it is certainly a step in the right direction, and the Isamaa Group would have nothing against this draft. However, the fact that this bill was linked to the government's question of trust, without any serious debate in the committee, does not allow the Isamaa Group to support this draft. However, I would like to open [these arguments] a little bit. Mr Raidma was right in this regard when he mentioned the initial points of dispute that we had. That is exactly what happened: the land border and then there were two with social guarantees that fell away. A little bit more we were discussing the land border, looking for a compromise, and that's what we found. But indeed, this issue of ensuring the security of the smaller islands arose when Mr Leo Kunnas asked about this simply a new unit, which is going to be a patrol ship division. The proposal would have the power to determine specifically what will actually be the task of this division in these islands. In principle, a large part of the next Commission meeting did not address this issue. At the end of the discussion of this point, my colleague Mati Raidma said that in § 1 (4) of the draft, this is the same issue that led to the debate regarding the law enforcement of the small islands, which is so generalized, is not fixed, which gives orders to the Defence Forces. This sentence could include a guideline that this is the Police and Border Guard Board. Next, quoting the protocol: "Raidma asked if this would be one of the risk mitigation measures and acceptable to the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia." Indeed, we did not have much debate about this. Mait Sigur also explained this on the part of the government in the Commission said that, indeed, adding wording would actually make the text clearer. Period. That was the one that just gave the frame to this debate. But we didn't really get to the discussion. Now the government has put this wording into its draft. This is not good practice. It's not good practice that we... We could have spent just one meeting of the Commission trying to solve this problem. Indeed, it was true that Mr Leo Kunnas also had the idea that he could turn to the Chancellor of Justice, and these discussions took place a little bit about what we are going to do then. But, in fact, we did not discuss the substance in itself, in that sense, really the current government's behaviour in the context of the debate on one law also spoils its content. Unfortunately, the Fatherland cannot support it in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U345	Riho Breivel, please! I'm sorry! Mr. Breivel, I'm sorry! The line is actually Alar Laneman; he had a speech on the subject. In order of order of registration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U346	Thank you. Since I was mentioned by a good colleague, I take this opportunity. First of all, thank you to Mr Heik for the very clear formulation, which I was going to say. But I am taking this opportunity to stress that the Chancellor of Justice did not give a positive opinion on our solution, first of all. Secondly, the integration of the fleet is a good example of how substantive work, the integration of functions, falls behind the focus on physical components. The deadlines were in place, but we had no substantial work to do. The staff already had deadlines in place, which is why the government needs to make a commitment to trust. It's a joke. Secondly, and I think it is much sadder, this solution has also caused damage to the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. The Commission has been a very effective and meaningful committee with a very good atmosphere. A very trusting environment has been a very meaningful debate for us and for me. Today we have the example that yesterday we had a consensus, but now we no longer have a consensus in the morning. I would advise good colleagues to think that the word is a substantive agreement, a paper and a signature is a formalisation of it. And the reduction of the decimal point here is not helping in any way, especially in a situation where these two substantive solutions existed. So I want wisdom and strength for all of us so that we do not cause ourselves such collateral damage in our future search for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U347	A rejoinder from Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U348	Thank you. Just a little fact-finding. Indeed, I proposed an alternative wording, but the EKRE Group announced that this would not be acceptable to them. And then the next step was a new move to ask the Chancellor of Justice. So, in fact, this compromise was also not acceptable to the EKRE Group, which was a sign that such a desire to find a common language did not really exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U349	Now please, Riho Breivel!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U350	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As one of the questioners from [the party] of Reform said earlier, nostalgia is on the border guards. Nostalgia may be, but the issue that we have discussed and are discussing now, and we will be discussing, because I am not backing down from certain principles, is not related to nostalgia, but is a question of the state's defence capacity. This is the issue where we have a defence capability gap that we tried to resolve together, both with the Ministry of Defence at the head of the Minister, the Ministry of the Interior at the head of the Minister, and the National Defence Commission at the head of the chairman of the committee. In fact, we have a solution that satisfies all the parties, which satisfies me too, the nostalgia of the border guard. Not because the name sounds proud, but because the country needs protection every day. And when we talk about time-criticality, the same question is very time-critical: do men on the border have the ability to militarily reject the opponent, or do we lack this ability, and we wonder how we can get these men out of there quickly, when the military invasion happens, and replace them? We have the ones we're replacing with. I'm not gonna tell you all the things around here, of course. But it's all time-critical. And that's why I'm saying that the same proposal we got on must be made. Although we wanted to get it back through the National Defence Commission as an amendment to the law, it was rejected. Everyone's for it, though. I don't know what we're thinking. Do we really think that we have a hell of a long time here by strengthening our country's defence capacity? We don't have the means, we don't give the ability to people, we don't have certain arrangements that we deal with every day. I'd give the almighty so we can work all this stuff out before the bang goes down. We look selfishly at these things. The issue of the transfer of border guard vessels is another issue. What concerns the transfer of monitoring systems is the third question. What concerns the shots, the ability to save, is the fourth question. But the most important issue is having military defence capabilities on the border every day and every hour today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This is what we need to do, not to take the substance and toss it aside for the sake of formality. We should be ashamed if we do this. That's how we lose our defenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U351	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U352	Ladies and gentlemen, We live in a relatively strange age. I remember if I ever served in the Russian army, one minute I happened to argue with our company, the praporschik. When I was talking about the Republic of Estonia and that we were an independent state, he told me that I could talk a lot about what I wanted, but history never happens again. But that little fat guy was wrong. The Republic of Estonia was born again. Sadly, in a sense, history is repeated in a different way. We had a very interesting tendency during last week's work towards the adoption of four laws, all of which were linked to mistrust. If they hadn't been accepted, the government should have resigned. But they went through. Today we have dealt with one thing and we are about to conclude another draft, which is linked to mistrust. Perhaps these drafts have interrupted a normal parliamentary debate, and the government will force them through. If we said earlier that history is still repeating and unfortunately in a bad context, then what is going on today...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U353	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U354	... recalls the year 1934 when Konstantin Päts declared a nationwide state of defence, which bore the composite title of a silent era. Maybe we're moving in this direction step by step right now. Even then, in 1934 the Riigikogu was put in a state of silence. That means he wasn't allowed to come back together in the future. We are now moving in exactly the same direction. There is no parliamentary debate, and the government is forcefully pushing through the laws. Going back to 1934 now, we remember what happened after that. The union of the freedom fighters, or brats, was closed all over the country, and all their newspapers were closed. Captured their leaders. The state railroad, mail, telephone and telegraph went directly under the command of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. Penalty, arrest, imprisonment up to three months or financial penalties up to EEK 3000 were foreseen for violations of the state of defence. The forced order of the Minister of Interior put a stop to the activities of political parties and political associations. I wonder if our destiny will be as it was then. The former President of the Supreme Court and Judge Rait Maruste of the European Court of Human Rights have written a long opinion story about this period in the Postimees newspaper in 2014 and analysed all these processes. But he sums it up very well with the following sentence: "The most amazing thing is how arbitraryly Päts went about the constitutional order in force in the country. " That is what the judge of state and the judge of human rights say. Isn't that amazingly similar again? Today we are dealing with a bill whereby we give the military equal powers to the police, that is, the powers under law of law, by which they have the right to use direct coercion, to use special equipment and weapons, to demand documents, to arrange, to apply a stay ban, to suspend vehicles, to detain a person, to close him in a room or in a vehicle, or to significantly restrict his physical freedom. As a reminder, such rights had been given exactly to the Health Board. A moment ago, we gave these same rights to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. And now we're gonna give it to the military. We are going to have a new repressive body, and I dare to use that word. The question is that the use of the Defence Forces at other times in the exercise of state supervision, which is not linked to extraordinary or martial law, is, in fact, unconstitutional. And I'm saying the exact same line as Rait Maruse said. The most amazing thing is how arbitrarily Kaja Kallas goes about the constitutional order in force in the country. Amazing. So is this our future, where public order will be held by special arrangements, special health officials, consumer protection and technical surveillance officials, now also the military? However, it is unconstitutional. There will certainly be some additional agencies in this government that are going to charge us with requests for documents, searches, detentions. I do not want such an Estonian state. I want an Estonian state like it was three or four years ago, where people had the right to be and to behave, and the police did everything. I argue that this law, which we want to adopt here now, is contrary to the Constitution. And those who process it must be held responsible for the violent change of Estonian constitutional order, according to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U355	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U356	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I've always thought the shoemaker should stick to his grids. The military, police and border guard area and its organisation are certainly not the area in which I am competent to think anything. In this situation, I trust my colleagues, particularly in the group, who felt that there was nothing wrong with the content of this draft. As Mr Hepner said, the content here is good, but the form is wrong. I don't know anything about organising border guards and so on, but I know something about the rule of law. In a state of law, this form cannot be poor if the content is good. We have clear rules, we are a rule of law, we have a parliamentary state and we have normal rules of law. It is true that, in exceptional cases, the government may attach some kind of draft, usually a draft budget, to a vote of confidence. But now we see that this extraordinary situation has become the norm. This is already the sixth extraordinary vote, where we do not have to vote for content, but we have to vote on whether we trust the government or not. I think that's very wrong. These small issues undermine very important things, trust in Parliament, trust in the government, and so on. I wouldn't be making such dramatic conclusions here that now the police state will be here and we will all be searched in stores and so on. It's not a case. But little things like that aren't small things. If we, this means Parliament, do not care about parliamentary order, who must stand for it? And that is why I have a pretty heavy heart, but I am firmly voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U357	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U358	Mr. President! Colleagues! There have been a number of absolutely incorrect statements here today. Claim number one: this will increase our security. Claim number two: This increases the rate of response. They're not true. Consider this simple example. I got two candy in one pocket and two candy in the other. I'm gonna put them together on this table and say I have more candy now, I have four candy. That's crazy, sweethearts! You understand that's not true. Two candy in one pocket and two candy in the other pocket are four candy, just like when I put them on the table side by side. And exactly the same applies to the interconnection of its fleets. There's no positive effect here. The defence forces can just say, look, we have a bigger fleet now. What should be done, and what did the previous government, led by Jüri Ratas, decide to do? As Minister of the Interior, I fought the wrong word 'I fought', I negotiated to order more border guards ships. 42 million, if I remember correctly, were agreed to order a border guard ship with helicopter capability from our manufacturer in Estonia. We did an analysis at the Ministry and found that at least six ships are needed to ensure that the Estonian border is safe and covered. At least six ships. The maritime state of Estonia needs at least six ships to take control of the border, to react quickly, to respond to pollution, to rescue operations, but possibly to take control of the first attack in the event of a primary military conflict. Let me give you another example as a historian. To grow up, you don't have to take two candy out of one pocket and two candy out of the other pocket and say that now I have more, but more. Peter the First, when he was a boy, had himself built on a lake close to Moscow, I can't remember either one or two small ships with which he practiced driving there and fought small battles at sea. If he had brought those two ships to the Baltic Sea and said that he was now a great Baltic Sea state, a sea state, that would have been ridiculous. Peter the First began to build a fleet. That is exactly what we can say about the kings of Sweden. Sweden did not become a great power in the Baltic Sea because it would have sailed on some kind of fishing boat, but because the Swedes began to build a large warship, more than one or two. So, Minister, if you're throwing here some sort of turnover phrase of security and time-criticalness, you've missed more than a year of what had been agreed in the previous government to order at least one more ship with a helicopter capacity with chemical pollution control capability. And don't tell me we've got sailors cleaning up oil spills. By the way, we just had an oil spill in Hiiumaa and Vormsi. How many military personnel were picking up that oil spill? Zero! Zero! But I'm gonna show you this badge, too, so you can yell at me that I'm a white race supremacy, stupid characters. Zero of the militia went there to collect pollution, and that's exactly how it's gonna be. You can say anything here. That's a bad bill. It brings exactly what Kalle Grünthal said. This is a piece by piece assembly of a police state, essentially creating a mafia system in Estonia, where it is exactly as Stalin said... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U359	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U360	"Give me only man, we'll find the passage. " That's exactly what it is. We take some laws, TTJA comes, kicks in the door, takes away the computer, the phone, makes other moves. Then comes the Health Board, takes away the right to walk without a mask, fines us and puts on plates if necessary, picks up drums and guitars and cellos. And then we'll have the Defence Forces who tell us that your identity needs to be checked, we'll go along, find out how loyal you are. But maybe you're a putinist. Perhaps your speeches that you would like balanced information about one or the other or a third thing are detrimental to Estonia's security. That's how a piece by piece, bill by bill, some sort of paragraph is adopted that requires a person to be locked up. This is what the most democratic Reform Party of all is doing. It should be embarrassing, friends! But I understand, to understand what you're doing, you also need brain capacity. But not just brain capacity. A moral compass is also needed. It takes a Christian view of the world to understand what is bad and what is good, but you lost this moral compass long ago when you began to fight for so-called minority rights, you lost it permanently and completely. Now you've lost. And when you talk about security, what you're doing now is the most direct damage to security in the current international situation, where you say it's wartime. Fortunately, there is no war in Estonia, there are no battles, there are no bombs, there is no Mariupolit or Kharkov or anything else. Unlocking a functioning system in this situation and creating a system that will inevitably take time to operate is the most immediate damage to security. I have to say, of course, that the Reform Party is characterised by the fact that Estonia's security is being undermined throughout the ages. We are going to lose our military service, we will be told how we do not need midland anti-aircraft, we will be told how we do not need coast guard. And then, when, at the end of the day, in the face of the drastic change in the international situation, it turns out that these things are really needed, that is, all our ministers will start talking with an important face of how they have always supported it. We have always talked about how Estonia needs medieval anti-aircraft and coastal defence and what else. But you haven't told me that, you've actually fought against it all the time. The most damaging party to Estonian security is the Reform Party, which points the finger, the putinists, who point the finger at everyone else. I am absolutely convinced that there are still a number of people sitting in this Chamber who are actually on Russia's payroll. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U361	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, but the Minister has asked for the final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U362	Thank you, good manager. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I also had a number of questions here in advance, so why did you still have to come with a vote of confidence? We were so close to compromise. The previous speaker was just talking about how close we were to the compromise. There was no such compromise. Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the good Riigikogu, thank you! Good Mati, thank you for bringing this bill! Good Leo and good Alar, thank you for seeking a compromise. I thank in advance all those who vote for greater security in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U363	I am closing the negotiations and now it is necessary to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the organisation of the Defence Forces initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws (transfer of the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board to the area of government of the Ministry of Defence). Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U364	With the result of 55 and against 25, the draft was supported and passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-30_U365	Ladies and gentlemen, the story now is that the points on our agenda are over, but since it is Monday, it is possible to register for a free microphone after the hammer hit. Please! I don't see any requests. Then today's trial is over. Good night.
