ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U1	Looks like you've been very thorough, no questions asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U2	So well reported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U3	Absolutely. Okay, I'm opening negotiations. I don't see any calls, I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading; no other proposals can be seen. Since we went five minutes past midnight, I will set the deadline for the amendments to be tabled at 5.15 p.m. on 26 May. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good night's sleep. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U4	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time Watchers, both here and behind the cameras! We're gonna start the 11th May briefing, and first we're gonna run a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U5	18 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 83 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Defence Minister Kalle Laanet and Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. Good colleagues, ten issues have been registered. I would like to ask that we make a specific question and an additional question on each subject. Is that a job rate okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U6	Let's get started. Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Riigikogu, asks the first question, is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the issue is the situation in the country. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U7	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The Minister of Education and Research, Liina Kersna, is likely to be the subject of misdemeanour proceedings or has even already been initiated, as the Ministry of Finance's supervisory review identified the characteristics of two misdemeanours in the procurement of rapid tests carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research. In fact, criminal investigations should have been initiated as the extent of the infringement is so large. So perhaps the Minister of Education and Science has committed a massive and completely wrong waste of public money and a violation of the Public Procurement Act. Ministers' errors are known to be subject to zero tolerance or at least should be subject to zero tolerance, in particular in the event of such large-scale financial damage to the State. How have you, as head of government, been ignoring your minister's violation so far? Do you intend to do something about the infringement of the Public Procurement Act with regard to Liina Kersna, or do you intend to defend her, justify her infringement and continue to overlook it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U8	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U9	Thank you. First of all, we need to look back on the situation. Of course, we value things differently in retrospect than at the moment when decisions need to be made. At the moment we were in, we actually needed to keep the schools open, and there was also a situation that we basically learned on Wednesday that this procurement, which was supposed to have been made by other ministries, had not been made. That is why we had a choice whether to quickly obtain these rapid tests, risking that not all the public procurement conditions were met correctly, or to shut down schools, because it is not possible to identify these sick people or children at an early stage. At the time, everyone believed that the rules of wartime had to be delivered quickly. It is important to us that we keep the schools open, but it was clear that when things calm down, the real question arises, the way things are done is the way things are done. Now, I absolutely do not agree with what you are saying that there has been some damage to the country. It hasn't caused any damage to the country. On the contrary, because we kept the schools open, the parents were able to work, and when the parents were able to work, the economy could work. Thanks to this, Estonia's economic growth last year was 8.6%, and this is quite different than it has been in our neighbouring countries, when we talk about Lithuania, Latvia, Sweden, where growth was 4.8%, or Finland, where growth was only 3%. Liina Kersna also introduced these risks and said at the time that she was ready to take this responsibility because this decision had to be made. Look, it's always easy not to decide and push these decisions somewhere further, but that would have meant that we couldn't have kept the schools open, and I think it was the only thing right at the moment to do so so that we could have these rapid tests and keep the schools open.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U10	The question to be specified. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U11	Thank you. It is, of course, a good thing to listen to such twirling. Yours, your ministers, and your people, of course, will be untouchable for any kind of violation and will probably remain as long as you are Prime Minister. And once again, you said it was like a war in the fall. It wasn't wartime in autumn, it wasn't. But let's move on to another subject: trade with Russia. Freight cars sweeping across the Narva Bridge, trade with Russia has increased statistically, although one might think that talks with a big mouth on the subject of "Sanctions, sanctions in Russia" are a categorical imperative. Perhaps this is the price we have to pay for freedom and democracy. It is, of course, very nice to talk about the economic strangulation of the aggressor state through sanctions and trade, but in real life we still see how the trailers carrying luxury cars continue to travel from Paldiski to Russia through Estonia. And I've already told you about what's going on on the Narva River. Does the government have an overview, an opinion, and what is the government's plan to reconcile words and actions in real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U12	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U13	Thank you. We have been of the opinion that sanctions must be put on a level playing field in the European Union, not by making them alone, but by making them together with others. This is because, otherwise, there are really certain gaps and there have been problems with the implementation of sanctions. We remember well when there was a Belarusian commodity group in 2707, it was coal oil, which did not seem to be subject to legal sanctions, but it seemed wrong and therefore Estonia made such a sanction separately. Now, land transport was not subject to sanctions for a long time. When these sanctions were imposed, they were also implemented. And, of course, their implementation will be monitored by both the PBA and the Tax and Customs Board, who will be delivering under the Ministry of Finance, precisely because sanctions will follow the rules and no one will circumvent sanctions. So this is being dealt with, and these cars are being sent back from the border. If you look at Estonia or compare it with another country, there is the difference that we have a pre-notification, so to speak, and these cars do not come to the border at all, but go back. Such land transport is indeed subject to sanctions, and we are doing everything we can to comply with these sanctions. Of course, the question is also for all Estonian entrepreneurs who deliver, not only whether they are subject to a sanction, but also how the companies' own moral compass works, whether it makes sense to provide certain activities-services or not. We know, for example, that even in Russia there are a number of entrepreneurs who do not go under sanctions, but as a result of this war, they have taken a clear moral stand and said that they are no longer doing business with Russia, have brought it to a halt themselves, because it is simply morally wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U14	And now for an additional question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come back to the first question raised by my colleague, Mrs Helme, concerning the procurement organised by Liina Kersna and the agreement concluded. I'm sorry to hear that the violation of the law and the failure to comply with the law, you justify the war situation. We can argue here whether or not there was a war in the autumn, it was certainly not an active war on the whole territory of Ukraine. But I believe you agree with me that even during the war and during any crisis there are laws to comply with them, and also in Estonia there are laws to comply with them. No action can be justified by the fact that we had a war or a crisis, which is why we whistle at the requirements of the law, doing what we think is right. And as you can hear from these answers now, these risks were known, they were consciously taken risks. And it certainly cannot be accepted that the country was not harmed. It was certainly a shame, because if a normal public procurement had been carried out, these tests would have been significantly cheaper. These bidders were on the market and this damage has certainly been caused to the State. The second thing is that those entrepreneurs who were unable to participate in this procurement organised by the Minister have a perfectly justified and legitimate right under European Union law to demand from the Estonian State the damage [reimbursement] which they have received because the State illegally organised a procurement and did not allow them to participate in it. And instead of regretting, you justify a member of your government, your party partner, who knowingly broke the law and signed contracts that are harmful to the state. And yet we do not know whether these other companies, now receiving the Ministry of Finance's control reports, are regulating. Why are you justifying your minister, and why are you inciting violations of the law, referring to times of crisis and war?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U16	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U17	Thank you. I don't justify breaking the law. When I told you there were wartime rules in wartime, I didn't mean the war that's going on right now. At that point, and you see, you, too, have completely forgotten about this war with the virus, we ran the race to keep society as open as possible, and I am glad to see that we were able to keep society open. Of course, the law is to comply with them. It is not right that we whistled about the requirements of the law. But it's always very good for you to be smart about what you should have done in that position. But at that point, decisions had to be made. The easiest way to get rid of your responsibility is to make no decisions. Then no one can blame you for making the wrong decision. You just didn't make a decision. But at the time, we were in the situation where we were. Now, as far as undertakings are concerned, none of the undertakings appealed against this decision. In fact, there must have been two companies in the process that could have offered these things. Of course, the fact that we have the rule of law, that we are examining whether everything has been correct, is correct, but I am also saying that if we are in a crisis like this, or as we were with the crown, it is also a special value that time is money and, literally, keeping society open costs a lot. This means that delaying decisions actually costs society just as much or even more, with a much higher price. For example, if we are in this crisis now, delaying decisions means that we cannot go back three weeks and say that we should have made those decisions then. If we don't make those decisions, there will be real damage at that moment. And, of course, when we make decisions today in two years' time, in five years' time, in three months' time, we'll be smarter about all of this and we'll be able to see this picture from the outside, that that's what should have been done at that point. But at this point when we are at the table of the cabinet, we have to make these decisions, these decisions depend on whether or not society can be disengaged, these risks must, of course, be taken into account. And the risk is never zero, there's a risk, and that's what we're seeing now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U18	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U19	Let us move on to the second question. It is presented by the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, a member of the government, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, and the subject is damage to the state. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U20	Thank you. My question, Minister, also concerns the procurement by Liina Kersna. You can now, with your answer, save the honor and dignity of the Prime Minister, reject the lie and the wrestling that the Prime Minister has previously responded to his colleagues. Or he has not read or at all been familiar with the relevant control materials of the National Audit Office or the control carried out by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. in the area of your government. And these consequences coincide. It has clearly been pointed out here that this public procurement carried out by recourse to only one tenderer was not in accordance with the general principles and the law on the organisation of public procurement. And another [case], I would point out, the second time the shortcomings were pointed out when the fast-track test was tendered, that this, too, was not lawful in the form of a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. Nor was it at all a situation in which it had to be decided quickly, as it is clear from these monitoring documents too that all the relevant bodies were known earlier, at least from April 2021, by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board, the Ministry of Education and Research. One bidder was chosen, and the Prime Minister just said that there was no choice on the market, there were only one or two potential bidders, that is absolutely not true. It is also very clear here that there was sufficient competition on the market for the delivery of rapid tests. This is confirmed, according to the Public Procurement Register, by the number of tenderers participating in public procurement for the purchase of similar rapid tests in the autumn 2021, and so on. And the fact that procurement was made, which went millions more expensive than the market price, has deliberately caused damage. Please tell me what happens next. Do the Estonian people really have to accept that the minister himself has proposed that he is willing to pay 1200 euros and the matter is forgotten?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U21	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U22	Honourable Chairman! Honourable questioner! Well, let's just say I'm trying to explain this picture of why such a call was finally made, and this assessment, too, which has been given in the process of official supervision, as it should be. This inspection report has been prepared by the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance. I think that the questioner also remembers that how reliable they are and when they could be used. We also know the scepticism of experts. I'm just saying that this process went on for a very long time, unfortunately it lasted about until the fall break was practically in hand and it was obvious that we were really going up the virus and needed to react quickly. Could this have been done sooner? Looking at the consequences, it would probably have been possible to do earlier and then also to carry out urgent tests which would have been in compliance with the law. There is just this estimate of how much it determined was urgent and urgent. If we even say that it was urgent and urgent, then the Public Procurement Department has found that, in this case too, more bidders should have been involved. I remember from my [work] in the history of this crisis when I was dealing with masks that it was also complicated. I think that at that point in time, when it came to rapid tests, there were still more entrepreneurs who deal with them. The Ministry of Education and Research has explained that only two companies participated in pilot projects in schools and that is why they asked the two. Synlab, as far as I know, refused, said he wouldn't make it that fast, the other said yes. But either way, the Public Procurement Department has found that the law has been wronged in these procurements, these procedures have been wronged. What possibility does the Public Procurement Department have? He evaluated all unproclaimed negotiated procurements at the Ministry of Education and Research, not one procurement or two procurements, and gave his assessment in this inspection report. As far as the National Audit Office or the amount of money is concerned, the Public Procurement Department does not assess the feasibility of using this money, but rather the compliance with the law. However, these different numbers have been referred to in the various procurements. As far as I know, the Public Procurement Department has also sent this inspection report to the National Audit Office for information. Whether the National Audit Office appreciates this feasibility or not, it cannot be said.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U23	Specific question, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U24	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for your reply and also for taking this courage and monitoring your colleague. And as I said, the conclusions of the National Audit Office and your administration coincide and have probably been aware and deliberate errors or at least conscious negligence, because they did not respond to the shortcomings already revealed in the first procurement, which could have been [reacted]. Once again, there was enough time, as the control reports confirm, and there was competition on the market, there was a choice, it was possible to take offers from several bidders and enter into negotiations and obtain much cheaper prices, which could at the same time be obtained from the market. But we know that today it has become clear that the Ministry of Education is much more confused than only with the public procurement of tests. I very much hope that you will move forward, that this feasibility will also be assessed and that the responsibility that the Minister is talking about will eventually be realised for real responsibility. Let me remind you that an investigation and a procedure is currently being carried out against the former Minister of Education, who is being accused, well, let us say, of causing damage in thousands of euros. In the case of Liina Kersna, we can talk about hundreds of thousands or even millions. So these are completely different things. And one time it's about a criminal case, the other time it's about maybe misdemeanor proceedings. These things are certainly not balanced. But the Ministry of Education has today discovered that the award to the former chancellor was paid out of law. This, too, has now become known in the press. Have you examined any other matters that have occurred during the minister currently in office at the Ministry of Education? Did they fit in under your supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U25	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U26	Thanks for asking. In the administration of the Minister for Public Administration, this is a narrow section, i.e. public procurement, state aid, the monitoring of its laws in these processes, and it is not the minister that deals with it, I would like to stress once again, but the department. The Public Procurement and State Aid Department has carried out this procedure, has taken explanations from the HTM about their procedures, so to speak, which have not been closely monitored by the Public Procurement Act, and has drawn their conclusions in the inspection report. The Minister has no role to play here, I would like to emphasise once again. In particular, the Public Procurement Department has also stated that it is considering initiating a misdemeanour procedure. It's their decision. No minister will intervene here and say that you are now starting a misdemeanor procedure; it is an official supervision. And as I have already mentioned, about the amount of money that was in the first procurement or in the second procurement, in the supervisory procedure where the Public Procurement Department is in fact in the inspection report or procedure, as I said, all year undisclosed, evaluating the procurement of the negotiations and finding minor shortcomings in the other [procurement] in the Ministry of Education and Research, in the inspection report that gave its assessment and, accordingly, the following steps will be taken by him. As far as the amount of money is concerned, I can't tell you how much in the first tender, if three, four or five bidders were invited, it would have been different from this one. So somebody else should be looking into it. As I said, it is probably either the task of the National Audit Office or, in the event of a corresponding complaint, the Public Procurement Review Committee, or VAKO, would have done so, but no one has turned there and, as far as I know, no one has turned to the investigative bodies with it either. So what can be done in this official supervision of the public procurement department, he has done and sent it to the National Audit Office for information. What follows is already up to other organisations. So your job at the Public Procurement Department is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U27	More question, Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been the chairman of the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu for over a year, and things and topics of the Ministry of Education have been going through us if not every session, then very often. And Liina Kersna has also been to the Anti-Corruption Commission with the same procurement, because there have been clues in the media and we had to check them out. It is not the usual practice for one minister to personally sign in 24 hours, and his advisers personally carry out some kind of procurement which is purchased from one undertaking for a very short period of time for millions of dollars. That's not normal. Here's what to think about, and maybe there'll be investigative bodies if they haven't gotten there yet. But now that this act of your department has been completed and it's been a lot of confusion, the same is not true of this statement that there were only two bidders who were capable. Because these tests, which were piloted six months before, were quite different and under different conditions than those that were eventually purchased by Minister Kersna from a single company. There's a mix-up with the transport. One condition was that they had to be delivered in one weekend. And then we'll see Minister Facebook and other Ministry officials on Facebook that they're transporting these tests to schools along Estonia with their personal cars. There's a lot of confusion. But my question to you as a member of the government: do you share the Prime Minister's view that in times of crisis, in times of war, decisions can be made and it is important to make decisions, and [later] to see if it is actually legal? How would you behave in this situation if you were the Prime Minister? And what would you say now to the Minister of Education, who have you been?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U29	Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U30	Thank you for your question. Luckily, I'm not the Prime Minister, but I'm still trying to speak for my administration and maybe talk a little bit about my experience. I, too, have made such a call for tenders, with negotiations without prior publication of a contract notice [with regard to masks]. I told you that once. And that was a lot of money, and my hand was shaking, and I had to sign it because no one else agreed to sign it. But it was a slightly different situation. In fact, no one had brought masks to Estonia at the time in that critical situation. Yes, I understand the Minister took political responsibility when he signed it. Therefore, I hope he knew the circumstances, and there was also a story in the office that could definitely take more offers. The fact that there were a few days left to deliver and transport these details I don't know. But that's self-evident. However, no matter where there is nothing to be done, the law must be observed and this inspection report gives the answer. How does the minister himself comment on why he did it and why he signed it, he must explain it himself and he has tried to explain it. I don't know what else to say here. I also understand the difficulty of the Minister at the time. Figuratively speaking, the school break was about to end, why it couldn't be done earlier, I couldn't answer, and I needed a quick test for school because there was a really fast-up virus at the time, and certainly these tests helped. But it's all about this process and the procedure. In the Public Procurement Act, these rules exist how urgent [procurement] can and must be monitored. So here's the conclusion of the inspection report.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U32	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Lauri Läänemets, member of the Riigikogu, and replies by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, member of the government, the subject is the cost of living. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You here very passionately defended the honourable Minister for Education and Research with the reasoning and arguments that, at these moments when it is difficult and urgent, the right decisions must be made and the right decisions must be made quickly, not later, not later, afterwards, when the damage problems are at hand. Today we live in the world or rather live in a country where inflation is enormously high, at nearly 19%. This is something unprecedented. This affects a very strong and very difficult number of Estonian people. Now simple examples. In fact, the purchasing power calculator of Statistics Estonia states very clearly that a pensioner basically loses almost 100 euros in his purchasing power every month, about 1000 euros a year. The average Estonian family, which means that a person who receives an average salary loses a little more than 2500 euros a year. This means that one family with a mother and father will have less opportunity to shop in one month for 500 euros. I know that the additional budget has proposed solutions, raising income support and all that. But actually, this is the last end of the problem. In fact, solutions are needed today so that people do not need income support, so that they do not fall into it, so that children can be raised in such a way that there is no need to cut back, to stick together. There is basically nothing in the supplementary budget; in my opinion, the additional budget is not intended to support and help the people of Estonia. Can you tell me what the government's plan is? Are you going to act now and help these people or what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U34	Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U35	Yeah, thanks! Yeah, inflation is a big problem, price increases are a big problem. Inflation is high across Europe, that is clear. Therefore, this inflation must also be combated internationally, including across the euro area, because alone we are weak here, we cannot alone influence the international supply-demand balance in any way, given that we are a very small country. Just in case, I'm overemphasising what this inflation is coming from. Inflation is caused by too much money and too little goods. Goods prices go up because there are simply not enough. Now, indeed, this price increase has been very high compared to last year. Last year's base was, of course, very low in relation to the fact that it was COVID, but indeed, compared to April last year, the goods are 14,4% and the services are 27,8% more expensive than the prices charged here. What is perhaps interesting is that there was such a change compared to March, a slowing down, for example, of two important groups of goods that affect all people. Firstly, in April motor fuel was 3.8% cheaper than it was in March. The price level is very high, but at least he doesn't grow, he was lower. The communications have also been cheapened. A number of groups of goods also had a minimum [weighing]. And when we talk about food products that are very much affected by people, it was actually less than 1% of the increase in food prices. But if you look at the three categories where this significant increase in prices occurred, they are eating outside the home, education and childcare facilities and housing. If you look at the first one, eating outside your home, then it is actually linked to the revival of tourism, which was not at all in last March-April, and it certainly does not affect people in this way, the day-to-day livelihood of families. The second is education and childcare. There this inflation is due to the fact that local governments did not charge for the place in kindergarten during the COVID period and this leads to an increase in prices because this leap is very high. The third major culprit is still a dwelling whose appreciation is important. Natural gas, heat and electricity. Another change in April was the disappearance of this support measure for all, which remained untargeted. And that's why the appreciation came from there. I'm out of time, but I can continue to answer the next question. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U36	Now, please specify the question, Lauri Western Forest!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You were talking about inflation, not how to help people. My question was, what do we do now? What's the government doing, or what's the government plan? Indeed, eating outside has become more expensive, but I can tell you that, for example, firewood has become twice as expensive. How do pensioners manage? The salmon in the store costs twice as much, twice as much this year, twice as much. These are basic things, these are people's charges. Transport in rural areas must take children to school, to a hobby, to a car to work. It's kind of horrible what's going on in people's wallets. In this sense, it is not about inflation. That, I understand, is what the government is doing, and we all understand that products and services that have become more expensive, much more expensive, are no longer cheaper. No matter what inflation gets, they don't get cheaper. My question to you is: what is the government's plan so that children do not fall into poverty? I believe you know that your ministry, I think the Ministry of Social Affairs, has already had a study that shows that more and more children are now falling back into poverty. The Social Democrats once helped them out. By the way, when we talk about the 50 euros needed to help a lot of children out of poverty at the time, today the figures that have made the price increase are considerably higher than 50 euros. People fall on income support, can't pay rent, I don't know how students can do it in the fall, this is where the government has to operate today. I emphasise: today, today and today, not in the autumn or next year. My question to you is, what will the government do? By the way, we have almost 300,000 people living on the poverty line or 30,000 of them completely in poverty. What's the government's plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U38	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U39	Thank you. Why I explain this inflation is that there are really no simple solutions to it. Anyone who offers these simple solutions is very populist. There are no simple solutions to global inflation, where there is a shortage of goods due to different things, is due to the fact that when the COVID recession or economic slowdown passed, everything went off, there was a huge shortage of all inputs. Similarly, energy prices went up. Now [there must] be a further war in Ukraine, which has affected it even more. These are global processes that are very difficult to wrestle at national level. We have taken this focus to help the most vulnerable groups. And that is why, with an additional budget, we are raising income support by 33%, which is more than this increase in prices, precisely to help these people cope in the most vulnerable groups. Now, another thing, as I said, in the case of housing, there is a very high proportion of actual energy costs. That's what you brought out yourself. In the case of electricity, the Riigikogu passed a law that can fix prices in the long term. And I have a meeting with the electricity sellers on Friday, because at the moment we talked, they promised that they would be able to bring that price down to EUR 20 to 30 per megawatt-hour if long-term fixed-price contracts could be concluded. Why I'm talking about it is that people, who are also very afraid of their rise, can insure themselves against it and conclude a lower price [a contract], fix the price so that they don't have to spend their nerves on it. So, yeah, it's a complicated problem. Our solution has been to help the most vulnerable groups cope and, in fact, to see how people can help themselves. And, of course, to stabilise this situation in the world in such a way that prices go down, supply is higher again and demand is lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U40	And now for an additional question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U41	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! Indeed, the war and the corona have organised a replay of logistics chains and an increase in commodity prices, where, in addition to Estonia, very many other countries are looking at how such a thing can happen. And no one would have believed that Germany's inflation was above 7%. It is quite right that these changes, including the increase in prices on the world market, are not changeable by the Estonian Government, they are not even influenced by any decision of Estonia. We are in the same situation as we are in the war in Ukraine or in the corona crisis that we need to find the best solution for ourselves, for our people. It must be taken into account that we also have a small market, which is energy-intensive, a large share of food and fuel in the monthly basket of people, and a large part of the expenditure that we have people spending is inevitable and very difficult to replace. For example, those related to housing. Even if a person decides, by looking at the level of inflation, to make changes, then the sale of housing, moving, the associated costs of the winning, which he eventually gets, is a very long one, long time. We can only adapt and really ensure that these more vulnerable groups do not fall into poverty. An increase in the income limit was already needed before the corona. It is very nice that this will now be done during the crisis, but 20% inflation does not mean that only people in coping difficulties cannot cope with the end on a monthly basis. Nearly 70% of households live from salary to salary, and it is very painful to adjust there for a fifth. So how can you ensure that children are still fed, for example, from school meals, that children's benefits keep pace with time and support families with children? In the case of decisions not included in the supplementary budget, can we at least expect, in the autumn, that child support will rise and that school food support will increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U42	Good questioner, your time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U43	Thank you. I admit it's very difficult for everyone. Really, this price increase is very high and it hits everyone. He hits those whose total costs include costs such as housing and food with a high proportion, more because you cannot avoid these costs. The same thing I said before, that if there is an increase in the cost of eating outside the home, accommodation, well, these are avoidable expenses, I don't have to eat outside the home. But I have to eat. And I have to do it in general. That's a problem. If we take the extra budget, the additional budget is very clearly focused on what really concerns national defence and the concerns directly arising from this war. This increase in income support is indeed linked to helping the most vulnerable groups. Could it have been done sooner? Maybe you could have done it sooner, but better now than never. I hope that the Riigikogu will process this budget quickly in May, so that already in May people who are the most vulnerable group will receive this help. But if we go there to help everyone, I just don't think we can help everyone. That's an honest answer. We simply cannot bring the impact of inflation to nothing. This 18 to 19% inflation compared to last year, where the level was very low, we cannot pay everyone off. That's an honest answer. Therefore, our focus has still been to take those who are the hardest to look at to invest in order to make sure that, next autumn, when energy prices are under more pressure again, those in need of aid are less in order to have more renewable energy producers on the market and we have sufficient gas reserves and all the steps that we can take by the state. But, yes, the assurance that we will pay all the price increases, unfortunately, we cannot give all of them. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U45	Let's move on to question four. It is presented by Rene Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, and it is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is the European Union's financial assistance to support Ukrainian war refugees. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! My question today is motivated by the fact that you will give an overview of how much the European Union has provided the Estonian state with resources to help Ukrainian war refugees and for what activities. And what more funds are coming, or what can the local government request to cover the costs incurred by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U47	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U48	Yeah, thanks! That's a very good question. We are working to really get further support from Europe. As far as local authorities are concerned, at the moment in the supplementary budget we have provided funds for local authorities to cope with these costs. Now, as far as European funds are concerned. The European Commission has allowed Member States to use unused balances for the reception of refugees in the previous budget period and has also increased the prepayments of the Refinancing Facility. At the same time, in our case, the problem is that Estonia has been very good at using these euros and, in fact, we do not have a large surplus there. I have also argued at European level when we have had these debates, that this is the way you are actually punishing those who are the best, who have found the best possible use of this money, and we do not have such residues to use. So there Estonia has only 9 million euros to use, which in itself does not cover the costs that have occurred. The resources of the recovery facility, which is also said to be available and advance payments, are also planned to mitigate the impact of previous crises, which comes first and foremost from the health crisis. Now, recently, the European Commission decided to increase the Migration and Asylum Fund by EUR 400 million to finance the reception of war refugees. Additional resources from the Migration Fund can be applied for by all countries with a high reception load. Estonia is certainly such a country with a high reception load. And it is clear that the costs of all the refugees in Ukraine are many times higher than the resources there are. We have repeatedly stressed to the European Commission in these negotiations that only these funds are not sufficient and additional funding is needed. In Estonia, together with nine Member States of the European Union, we have also submitted a joint visit to the European Commission on 29 April, where we proposed to allocate extraordinary resources for the reception of refugees from war. Since there is a reserve of solidarity and emergency assistance in the European Union budget of more than EUR 1 billion, it is intended for such situations and we are asking for this reserve to be used. So, in fact, we will continue to work on getting this support from the European level to help the Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U49	Specific question, René Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U50	Thank you. In this I fully agree with you that this is now the punishment of Estonia for using the previous good money, that you take out of the nine million left there and put it there, we certainly cannot agree with that. But what was the amount that Estonia now seeks or aims to ask for in this 400 million, how was this concept for countries with an increased reception load or for countries with a higher reception load? How much has Estonia asked there, and when could local governments expect this money to reach the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U51	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U52	Thank you. I can't even say a specific amount right now, because we're having debates at all about what this distribution key is and who should be part of this pot. The European Commission's view has been that the border countries and those with a greater burden. At the time they looked at it, the burden on Estonia was not so great and therefore Estonia did not go down there. Only the Czech Republic then went in addition to those countries bordering Ukraine. In the Czech Republic, 3% of the population were refugees from war. Estonia has this 2.7, so it actually has to continue to be demanded. So [this is] the first thing in this whole process, the first fight we currently have at all levels. Just yesterday, all ministers were also instructed to contact the Commissioners in their field to raise this issue at European level. I hope that the Estonian Commissioner in the European Commission will also understand this concern, which is also raised and protected there. Additional resources are needed to increase support from the European Union budget and to include the budget for specific instruments, the same reserve for solidarity and emergency assistance and the flexibility instrument or the introduction of reserves for this purpose. And then we can talk about this distribution key. After all, we have the costs that we have, and these costs can be presented, for which we need support. You can also count these costs from the additional budget that we have sent to the Riigikogu. So, of course, we are asking for support to cover these costs. However, as far as local authorities are concerned, as I say, everything that concerns specific aid, the inevitable costs that local authorities must make, we have in the supplementary budget. Local authorities should have confidence that if they make these expenditures, these expenditures will be covered by the state budget and we ourselves will deal with the dispute at European level in order to recover these costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U53	And now for an additional question. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U54	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! In answering my previous question, you have come to the point that price increases cannot be paid for everyone. It is unthinkable, it is not necessary, and no one has asked you to do so. My question went beyond time, but it was actually targeted at the [problems] of families with children when we look at relative poverty indicators, then the risk of poverty increases as the number of children grew. This trend was in place before the crisis, is now in place. The question is whether child support, a targeted measure aimed at families with children, could keep pace with time and be modernised. Or another thing, school food still has children whose only warm and healthy meal is in school. It was possible to cope with one euro in the past, but if the price of the potato has risen by 134%... We are not talking about some exclusive, unnecessary luxury product that can be pushed into consumption, I don't know, for summer holidays, but something that really helps children get fed up every day. In this situation, I think that targeted measures would be necessary. If they are not in the supplementary budget, I would like to stress that they could certainly be considered when planning the budget. Both the school food allowance and the increase in children's benefits. But now, coming to the question of the European Union's financial assistance to support Ukrainian war refugees, it is not possible, in the same way, that all the costs of war refugees will be paid for by the European Union. It is very nice that countries with a greater burden can actually use these funds to provide liquidity. But I ask about this part of the war in Ukraine, which is outside the European Union, that, in addition to the needs of war in Ukraine, they pay their citizens pensions, other benefits and benefits. We know that Ukraine's budget is in a permanent deficit, which I think was 5 billion a month. At European Union level, for example, have the Heads of Government and Heads of State in the Council discussed whether to provide assistance to Ukraine, either to provide liquidity or as a loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U55	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U56	Thank you. First of all, children's benefits. I believe that this issue could certainly be discussed during the next debate on the state budget, which will be next year. You can watch it then. Now, as far as these European funds or support for Ukraine are concerned, from your question, yes, at European level, there are all sorts of different ideas on how to help Ukraine, including loans. The World Bank has taken appropriate steps. The United States has made provision for liquidity aid to cover precisely the same costs as the state's maintenance and, unfortunately, paralyzed when there is a full-scale war. Now, which I think is also very important in supporting what must not be lost in sight, is that we must get those costs back from Russia, which is causing this damage. I constantly see in these debates that we have all kinds of donor conferences where people think about where we are already dealing and how someone could help, I mean at European level, at global level, to deal with the reconstruction of Ukraine. But the first thing is that we're gonna stop this destruction, and the second thing is that whoever does this destruction has to pay for it. Whether it is with assets that are currently seized around the world or with other reparation requirements, it cannot be that Russia escapes this responsibility and everyone else must deal with the reconstruction of Ukraine. Whoever does this destruction must be held responsible. It must also be responsible for the war crimes committed. But, of course, everyone is thinking about how to help Ukraine, not only now, but also when this war ends.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U57	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U58	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Aivar Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is energy security. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! It is not the task of the state to compete with the private sector, but to work together to ensure energy security. The pursuit of state capitalism must be stopped. After you promised, as Prime Minister, that Estonia would have LNG terminal by autumn, unfortunately, not one step closer to building a terminal. We have entrepreneurs willing to invest in energy security, but the government and Elering are putting up unnecessary obstacles to it. It must not be repeated the error made by the Reform Party in 2014, when the construction of the LNG terminal was abandoned for the benefit of the Finns. I recall the agreement between Prime Minister Rõivas and Stubb, which agreed that a regional LNG terminal should be created by 2019 at the latest, for which Finland has submitted a request for funding for work by 2016. If Finland does not meet the agreed conditions, Estonia will be able to set up a regional terminal itself. Why are we offering it to Finland again now? The negotiations between private companies and the state company Elering, which manages the gas network, have been sandy and within a month the floating terminal has not got one step closer to Estonia. We're gonna stop fucking with the private contractors. We know that the sole desire of private operators is that the terminal to be built be connected to the core network and that Elering does not hinder market access. After all, the fact that a public undertaking is over-supplying undertakings on the market means an additional cost for the taxpayer in the long term. Why would the state spend EUR 213 million of taxpayers' money to buy twice as expensive gas later on by private consumers and businesses? I would also stress the importance of long-term signals. The commitments made to Estonia for the green turn mean that additional EUR 15 billion of investments will have to be made next year. You answered me last time that last Thursday was the decision to be made. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What decisions have been made today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U60	Good questioner, your time. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U61	Thank you. Yeah. First of all, it is important to ensure that there is sufficient gas supply in the next winter and that homes and institutions that use gas do not remain cold. We are planning to acquire a one-hour gas supply, an average gas supply, which we do not use Russian pipeline gas to acquire. That's the gas we're buying in the Inčukalns storage facility. What is still a significant development is that last year, a Polish‐Lithuania gas pipeline was opened, making it possible to deliver new supplies from Europe as well. Now, in addition to the gas supply, Estonia creates this capacity to accept LNG from autumn. The story you read on that computer is very one-sided. Perhaps when it comes to these complaints, which have also been linked to their public procurement, you see, at this point it is as if it is the feeling that you pay no matter how much, as long as it exists and this opportunity arises. But if we make this decision, in a year's time, if this crisis may not be as sharp as it is now, I will be here in front of you, and I will have to answer the question why the state spent so much. Therefore, those negotiations, which the media will broadcast as unilaterally as possible, are not you there in the negotiations, I am not there in the negotiations. Let those who are there do the job. It is important for us that this ship is with Finland for LNG acceptance. You're saying it's like the state is throwing sticks at private companies. If this had been an economically sound decision in the past, private operators, believe me, would have made that decision themselves. They have not themselves made this investment because, in fact, this market has not been such that this price has been low enough. At the moment, we are in a different situation where we stop buying gas from Russia and we need to have the capacity to have LNG, an alternative source. And that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U62	Now, the question to be specified. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U63	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am deeply sad that those people who give you this information are lying. The gas pipeline between Latvia and Lithuania is so thin that there is no additional gas coming from there. All the gas coming to the Lithuanian terminal will remain in Lithuania and Poland. Estonia has the only chance to abandon Russian gas at the moment to create a floating terminal in Paldiski. If you do not know this, private operators and Elering have already closed the negotiations between themselves last week, because it is not possible for private operators to say that Elering would simply buy a single port at a construction price and that would end the subject. If you do not know how the price of electricity in Estonia is so high, I can tell you: thanks to the fact that the manager of Elering, who you know, opened the third electricity connection between Estonia and Latvia at 330 Kilovats last year, the difference between the price of electricity in Estonia and Finland is double. That's what we're paying for, and Elering's getting the overload fee over 100 million a year, too, this year. What are you doing to ensure that Elering's management does not prevent private entrepreneurs from offering cheaper energy in Estonia? And who is responsible for the fact that, as a result of Elering's decisions, we paid for last year as a final consumer and pay millions [euros] more for electricity each year than for Finland. This is only one reason: the cable between Latvia and Estonia was opened. That is a fact and it cannot be refuted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U64	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U65	Thank you. First of all, the first thing I want to fix. You always like to use this argument to make decisions in 2014. But you will forget the decisions taken in 2015 where the Minister of the Reform Party, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Kristen Michal, made an application for the European Community funding, which included the Balticconnector, a gas pipeline that connects Finland and Estonia. There was the Karksi compressor station and also the Paldiski LNG terminal. 2015, repeat as in the previous Question Time, it will be later than 2014. So those decisions have been made. Now to your question. It is very interesting that you are accusing Elering of rising electricity prices worldwide and in Europe. You mention one connection, but all the connections we have with Finland have rather given us the opportunity to get some of the cheap renewable energy from the Nordic countries that has flowed this way. And if we take over the years, from 2013 onwards, I may be wrong because I am not carrying these materials now, but from about that time until mid 2021 we have received cheaper electricity than has been paid, for example, by the Central European consumer. It's for this reason... [[They say something in the hall.]] Sorry, Mr. Chef, I can't listen while I answer. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U66	Good fellows! Our rule in Question Time is that the questioner asks, the law provides for two minutes, the respondent answers, the law provides for up to three minutes. Unfortunately, there can't be a disco in the meantime. Prime Minister, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U67	I really can't hear what you're yelling at me while I'm talking. I'm not as capable as many people are here who can talk and listen at the same time. But, in fact, we have received much cheaper electricity from this central Europe. I've noticed you and Elering have some kind of chicken pluck. I don't know why that is. But what's important to me is that Elering has an obligation to guarantee security of supply, and that's what they've done so far to make the networks work, and there's electricity here, so that the rooms are warm and the lights are on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U68	And now one more question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U69	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! I am also asking about energy security and moving a little away from gas, because we know that this is not necessarily the case in the heating period approaching the security of gas supply, and we should also think about Plan B and Plan C. And indeed, we should make an effort today to transfer our district heating gas boilers to wood chips. Additional investments should also be made to this end. Just as a side note, I'm saying that about half a million cubic metres should be cut further, but we have gray picks within 30 million cubic metres, and mostly this wood is only suitable for heating. Last week in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, there was a meeting with both the Ministry of the Environment and various parties, with interest groups on forestry, but also on peat producers. For example, if Estonia has reduced the volume of logging in the state forest, Finland intends to increase it and significantly increase it so that this transition is smooth. If Estonia has not created a strategic reserve for the use of peat, Finland has, by the way, made 2 million sharp national strategic reserves to minimise the risks and keep the rooms warm at reasonable prices. In conclusion, all the [steps] that Finland has taken will help to control inflation, the consumer price index. Would it be worth learning from Finland and finally doing something like our good northern neighbours have done ahead?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U70	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U71	Thank you. First of all, when we talk about LNG, these negotiations are still going on between Alexela and Elering. But if these negotiations fail, we really need to think about Plan B. What is Plan B? Firstly, the acquisition of gas supplies, which is part of the gas reserves that we keep in the Inčukalns storage facility for one point-hour. That's a first. Secondly, the solidarity agreements with Latvia and Finland. What does that mean? This means that, if there is not enough gas, it would not be the case that factories in one country are throbbing completely and consumers are losing out in another country. Thirdly, as you say yourself, switching district heating to other types of fuel is also important. It is part of district heating, 40% of Estonia's needs. And last but not least, it's a preference for domestic consumers. If there is not enough gas, homes must remain warm. Now, as far as security is concerned, first of all, I very much agree with you that we have a great deal to learn from Finland in a wide range of areas. After all, peat is a natural resource. The argument is that it is not renewable because it recovers too long. But we have peat bogs of our own. I am not an expert in this area so that I can say this, but your own party has had a long time to manage the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, so perhaps you can even better ask your colleagues why this has not been done for so long, why we have not taken Finland as an example in this regard. I believe that it is worth discussing that, if we are in the state we are now in, we are experiencing an energy crisis, should we also think a little of these additional alternative solutions out of this box, which is common practice: wood chips, fuel oils, all the types of energy that could be used. The important thing is that the rooms are warm and hopefully the economy will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U72	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U73	Let's move on to question six. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the topic is to support families with children. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U74	Thank you. Prime Minister! We have the fastest inflation in Estonia in the time of regained independence. As always, families with middle-class children today suffer the most from lower incomes in times of crisis. According to Eurostat's preliminary estimate, annual inflation in Estonia was 19% in April, which is the fastest price increase in the euro area. If inflation continues at the same rate, it can be said that people will lose more than two monthly salaries from their purchasing power this year. That's expert opinion. When a person earns a minimum wage, i.e. EUR 604 per month, I am talking here about net amounts where taxes have already been deducted, he has lost 2,3 monthly wages by the end of the year, 19% of these salaries under inflation conditions. This means that, in the case of such high inflation, the real purchasing power of a person is instead EUR 485 per month. So the minimum wage maid loses 1377 euros in purchasing power in a year. That's expert opinion. Also, if you bring a salary of EUR 1 000 per month in net pay, 19% of inflation will have a purchasing power of EUR 810 per month by the end of the year and EUR 2280 lost in purchasing power. Now, 50 euros per child in the fall is a fool's game. I think that's what everyone thinks. Most people have said it at least that way. And prices aren't gonna go down on us. A little more continuous support could be provided by an increase in child support and social democrats have submitted a law amendment to raise the first and second child allowance to EUR 100 per month. After all, child support is an important instrument to reduce the risk of poverty in families with children. Are you in favour of this proposal because the Government of the Republic did not express an opinion here? Does the Reform Party and the Centre Party support raising child support to EUR 100 for the first and second children?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U75	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U76	Thank you. As I said, inflation is really a very big problem and a big problem for everyone, in fact. Inflation is linked to the fact that we have too few goods, too much money in the market, and as a result, prices are rising and, unfortunately, rising all over the world, not only in Estonia, although this price increase is really high in Estonia. And it doesn't comfort anyone that everywhere else will rise. I mean, it's a global problem. Now, as I said earlier, if you look at the price increase from where it comes from, a large part is the cost of housing, and that is where we have actually done quite a lot. More than EUR 180 million has gone out for energy subsidies, both for support to all and targeted measures specifically for families that earn under median income, precisely in order to provide this assistance to those who need it more. Now, as far as child benefits are concerned, your own colleague on a previous or one point earlier pointed out that, in fact, a single-living pensioner is at the highest risk of poverty. As far as families are concerned, it was very surprising for me, for example, that when we talk about support for families with three children, it is known that in Estonia, if there are three children in the family, the family receives 520 euros per month from the state for raising children. But in comparison to Finland, who, we know, are many times richer than us, or Sweden. In Finland, a family with three children receives a child allowance of EUR 333.51 per month, and in Sweden, a family with three children receives a total of EEK 4480, which is EUR 420. As we know, both Finland and Sweden are richer than we are, and they pay much lower child benefits than Estonia. So, in fact, at least in the case of large families, Estonia has nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U77	And now the point to be clarified. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U78	Thank you. Dear Minister, I wasn't talking about big families right now, I was talking about the increase in first and second child support. And when we talk about inflation, as I pointed out earlier, if the person earning the minimum wage had the purchasing power before EUR 604 per month, it will fall to EUR 485 per month at 19%, and if you add two children's allowance, that means EUR 120 in total, it will be EUR 605. In fact, the situation of families with children is deteriorating considerably. Please answer this question if you support the increase in the support of the first and second children. Today is high time. And another thing about absolute poverty. If we look at the subsistence limit, it is known to be 150 euros for the first family member and 120 euros for each subsequent family member. Then it will rise to EUR 200 when there is a child in the family. But all these sums are, in fact, something that in no way improves the situation of families with children. They give you a small injection of money, but the situation doesn't improve. And once again the question: will you support the increase of the first and second child's support from EUR 60 to EUR 100, just as the Social Democrats have proposed, you personally, your party in the same way? Have you talked about this more widely in the government? Does the government support it? Because we didn't get the government's opinion. And another thing, is this EUR 200 per child for families living in absolute poverty sufficient to receive income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U79	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U80	Thank you. I am not arguing that inflation hits everyone hard. I absolutely don't disagree with that. It's a hard hit, it's a very difficult time. Now, as far as your specific question is concerned, as I have also answered your colleague, you were not just in the Chamber at the time, I will reply again. All such grants can be discussed within the framework of the state budget, which will come in autumn for next year, and these issues must be discussed. Clearly, we need to see how we can help people. But, as I emphasised earlier, we simply cannot pay for all this price increase. Finally, it comes from the taxpayer's pocket, it comes from all of us, especially from those who are not paid by the state, but from the private sector. So it's the other way around, the same cost. Now, as far as income support is concerned, we will increase income support by 33%. While the price increase in April was 19% compared to April last year, 33% is going to go beyond increasing this support, and this would be a significant help to the most vulnerable people in need of income support. So this slope over there is still significant. Yes, I think that all these grants can be discussed within the framework of the budget. I must say that with all the subsidies, however, it is always the way life has shown that no one is satisfied. Those who can say that too little, those who can't, say that those who can get it wrong. And in the end, no one is happy. We need to work to make sure that this situation actually improves, inflation goes down, people's incomes increase, which, thanks to economic growth, has increased. The economy has grown by 8.6% and, compared to its neighbours, the result has been much better if we look at Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania, whose economy grew by 4.8%, or Finland, whose economy grew by 3.3%. As the economy grows, incomes can also be increased. And important to everyone, I think, is that people do not want to apply for subsidies, but people want to do it. This is what we need to put the emphasis on, so that all people can cope with a situation where prices have risen so harshly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U81	And now one more question. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It is admirable how you do not respond consistently to the same question asked twice and how you are getting behind the subject of this state budget versus the supplementary budget. We understand that people need help now and now, not in 2023, when you will never get anywhere with these discussions in your coalition. You claim that this additional budget is a security budget, we will solve security issues with it. But I hope you will agree with me that coping with the Estonian people, coping with the Estonian people, the situation of Estonian children, but also the situation of pensioners, with whom, for some reason, you are currently confronting child support for a moment, these are all security issues. The way our people manage and their failure is a very serious security risk. We very much expected in this House that the government, in its supplementary budget, in the security budget, would come up with a solution to these issues as well. But you tell us here that there are no solutions, it's inflation, take it or leave it. You can't talk like that. Yes, raising the subsistence limit will help, of course, but it will help the poorest people. And, of course, in a year's time, people who are not now the poorest will also help because they will be the poorest. Your comparisons with Sweden and Finland, of course, can be compared to anyone, we can also compare with some African countries or with some South American countries, but the salaries that the rest of the family members receive in Finland and Sweden are many times higher than Estonia's salaries and maybe that is why children's benefits may be lower. These are not solutions. Prime Minister, do you personally, the Reform Party and the Government as a whole, support an increase in child benefits from EUR 60 to EUR 100 for the first and second children, just as the Social Democrats have repeatedly offered?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U83	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U84	Thank you. The difference between you and me is that I'm in the government, and I have to say, yes, I support it, answer the question of where this money comes from. You don't. No one's asking you, but where are we gonna get that money, it's gonna cost so much, and where are we gonna get that money? See, why I am referring to this budget is that the government is dealing with budgetary negotiations, the country's budgetary strategy, which sets out four-year plans, is a budget that sets out what we can do, where we come from to the state budget and what the costs we have to cover are. Therefore, I cannot run ahead of these events, give any firm support at a moment when we have not discussed it in the government, and unlike you, I must answer the question immediately where this money comes from. So that's the difference. And that's why I can't answer you so directly that yes, I support, or no, I don't support. Yeah, I admit, everybody's having a hard time, that's what I'm talking about. I am also talking about how the state works, how budgets are put together in such a way that we do not run ahead of events, because money is actually needed in all areas. I could say here that yes, I support it, yes, I support you, but then right next minute you ask that you said that you support it, but now it is not in the budget. But because politics is really the art of compromise. We have disputes in the government office between different ministers, between different areas of responsibility and between priorities; we also have disputes between coalition partners in exactly the same way. At the same time, we must always answer the question of where this money comes from. Money doesn't come from a wall or a drawer, it comes from a taxpayer's pocket. So every time we say A, we also have to say B, who's going to pay for it in the end. Let me give you an example. I think there was a referendum in Switzerland asking if you all wanted this civil salary. But there was also another part of this equation: if you want a civil salary, I don't remember what that amount was, for example, 1000 francs, then that means that taxes will rise so much. And people said that when taxes rise so much, they don't really want that support. But in this second half of the equation, no one is asking you what taxes you will raise if we pay these benefits. And I'm not saying it in any way that it's right or wrong. I just want to say that there's another side of this debate that should be opened exactly the same way, not just what's popular, and what's popular is that we pay everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U85	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U86	Let's move on to question seven. It is presented by Riigikogu member Leo Kunnas, which is answered by Defence Minister Kalle Laanet, and the subject is the budgetary needs of the Defence League regarding the growth of membership. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! I tried to formulate my question as accurately as possible. This is what the Defence League's budget needs for this year in relation to the growth of membership. Russia's aggression against Ukraine has greatly increased people's motivation to enter the Defence League, and currently according to the Defence League itself, we have received 1963 statements as of early May, of which 1136 have already been adopted. The probability that some 3,000 people will enter the Defence League this year is quite high and this is a very positive sign. But, of course, the Defence Union and the defence budget do not take all this into account, because we have not taken into account such a large increase. What's the cost? The first thing, of course, is training. Probably about one third of these entrants have not been in military service; they must complete a training course in military skills. The others are going through this repetition. Then you need personal equipment so you can do the training at all. And then, of course, you need more frame formations, more hired instructors to do all this at all. Circuit headquarters also need a small manned core of peace time to begin this increase in the structure of land protection in the first place. These are all extra costs. We did not see that in the current supplementary budget. I have the question: how do you intend to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U88	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Leo, a good member of the Riigikogu! This issue is absolutely justified and targeted. We've agreed to go a little bit wider, but if we look, from 24 February to this day, even 2914 people have joined the Defence League and Women's Home Protection, including the Defence League 1995 and the Women's Home Protection 919 that our goal is to provide them with personal protection equipment, equipment, training as quickly as possible. As a whole, at this point in the long term, we have foreseen EUR 38.1 million, of which 30 million is the last decision by the Government of the Republic in March to go to the RES, 2.9 million would be additional equipment, and 5.2 would be further training. On the subject of equipment in particular, we have agreed that those people who have already joined today and when the Defence League has run out of their own equipment, uniforms, the Defence Forces will provide them with this. And while the RIK has already been entrusted with the procurement of uniforms, personal protection equipment, the equipment will be provided again to the Defence Forces by next year at the latest. In the synergy between the two organisations, we will resolve this issue. There is another aspect here that specifically concerns additional troops and civilians who should be involved in training. This real need I should be able to [know] next week on the 16th. We agreed with two generals this week, the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the Defence League, and they will work together to give me this number, which is the need, very clearly by 16 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U90	Now, the question to be specified. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U91	Thank you. Kalle, how would you look at it if we tabled some constructive amendments on this subject during the budgetary process, including the additional budget that is now under discussion? Would you consider them? Would that be possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U92	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U93	Thank you. What we know is that national defence is always short of money. And if the honourable Riigikogu decides to contribute more, of course I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U94	Additional question, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U95	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, One fact I would ask you now to disprove. On 17 March this year, the Ministry of Defence's coordination meeting decided to cut the Defence Union budget by EUR 770000 this year. By the way, one could also say that on 24 February Russia started a widespread aggression, which in today's sense the Ukrainian war was already on tour three weeks and after a little bit. But I'm still asking about this year's budget. We really only have EUR 15 million there now, and it is as if we are given the impression that we are simply not more able to use it, because it all takes time, procurement is needed and so on, and so on. In fact, let's be honest, we're basically living and living, as the Prime Minister loves to say, under the conditions of wartime. The Prime Minister everywhere at any time stresses that it is a wartime budget, it is a wartime decision. How can we be so incompetent during this war, or so few, that we will not be able to provide our defence capabilities faster, including the Defence League, and we will have to wait for the budget for next year to start a debate or see these funds in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U96	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U97	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good questioner! The National Defence Union of 2022 has a budget of EUR 45,6 million. As far as defence procurement is concerned, I also said in advance that all those who are entering the Defence League today must receive uniforms, personal protective equipment and also the training they need. Nothing for these people is going to be delayed. So when we are talking about specific procurements, whether the procurement of weapons systems or ammunition, we have held this debate several times in this big hall, that it is not buying bread from a shop, it requires a certain procedure. This requires that these weapons systems or ammunition are in place somewhere and this procurement is legally carried out. So unfortunately, defence is the area where acquisition takes time. As a result, we need to make longer forward decisions so that we are prepared in time for the dangers and risks that may one day be upon us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U98	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U99	Let's move on to question eight. This question is asked by Raivo Tamm, answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the subject is history consciousness. Please, Raivo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U100	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! "1941-1945, the Great Fatherland War. His protectors and liberators, the sons of all the peoples of the Soviet Union, remember the time of gratitude in Tartu." That's the text on Raad's red monument. I think it goes without saying that the Tartians cannot be grateful to the city's fighters and the occupiers. Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the City Council of Tartu, has proposed that the red monument be moved and buried in the remains of Raadi park. I also think that the position of the Prime Minister of Estonia and the Government of the Republic is also important on this issue. But if I'm not mistaken, I don't think you've expressed your own opinion on it yet. Do you agree that it is high time to take action and move red monuments in public space? What steps are you planning to take with the government to remove the symbols of the occupyers from our public space?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U101	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U102	Thank you. I would like to stress that this proposal was made not only by Tõnis Lukas but also by Urmas Klaas, who is the mayor of the Reform Party in Tartu. It is true that these red monuments, which may not have been so far ahead of people in the past, are simply not so much attention paid to them, then now that we are in the middle of a war in Ukraine, it will tear open all these wounds and indeed the text you read out is appalling and gives rise to great inconvenience. And there are not only monuments like this in Tartu, but there are monuments like this all over Estonia. For a few weeks now, we have been dealing with this issue. First of all, [it is necessary] to map all such places and see what steps we can take to do this in a balanced way, because indeed, they are also war graves, and in such a way that no one's grave truce is damaged. [To be taken into account] the concerns that come with it. But my point of view is that really this time or this war has brought all the sufferings of our people back out, and people are going to survive it all over again. These monuments actually hurt a lot of people, and it would be better if we could get in order in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U103	And now one more question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U104	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! I am asking the same question, but I am going a little ahead of the monuments erected for the Soviet military in World War II, the time when the Republic of Estonia was created. We know that there are two "red" street names in Narva - Ancis Dauman and Albert-August Tiiman - and in addition, there is another name called Jürna in Rapla, where, truely, the name John has been taken away. The year before last, just before you became Prime Minister, we discussed this issue here in the Riigikogu and also adopted certain amendments to the law on the name of the place to give the government the opportunity to intervene more forcefully in changing these names. I know you're saying that every municipality has its own autonomy. That is right, and that must be the case, but in certain cases the central government still needs to intervene, if it is obviously to hurt the sense of honour and justice of our people. Hence the question: what has the Government of the Republic done to get these names changed once and we can really say that such disgraces have disappeared from our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U105	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U106	Thank you. Indeed, as you rightly point out, street names are the competence of the local government. It's been like this. And now, when you ask what the government has done with these street names, the honest answer is that we have not dealt with this issue in the government at the moment. But like I said, we're gonna go over the subject of the red monuments, and I'm gonna take that idea with me. Whether we really have levers there, I do not remember exactly this wording, but in any case the general principle is that the local government can make decisions on its own level, as it is. After all, in certain countries, the decisions taken by the city governments to name this street, where the Russian embassy is located, have been converted into Ukraine's street in connection with this war. This has not been done in Estonia. But, yeah, it's been a local government competence, so we haven't dealt with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U107	There are no further questions, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U108	Let us move on to question nine. It is presented by Eduard Odines, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and the topic is the success of Estonian people. Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We have already discussed with you several times today about who should be supported, who should not be supported and where the money comes from. I guess I will continue on the same subject, because it is really a concern to manage people and, in particular, to manage people who have done more or less with themselves and with their lives, with their family budget. Such an average Estonian person, who receives a salary from the average or rather below the centre, who has never had to ask for any social benefits, guaranteed his modest but still livelihood for himself, his family and his children, and also found the opportunity to look after his parents, who maybe sometimes, and actually quite often, are under pension. And I'm very worried. These prices have already been discussed here many times, and so has the huge inflation that reached our yard. I am very concerned about housing costs, in fact. I live in a panel house and I'm a member of the building management company and I get the first hit when I pass these bills on to people. Electricity has increased by 119%, pipeline gas by 237% and thermal energy by 57.7%. Our cooperative's annual heating bill for April is bigger, considerably higher than the monthly bill for March. You yourself mentioned that you have abandoned this support for heating bills for everyone and you have remained only a targeted measure to support them. However, why didn't you extend for just one month the support for which people are actually grateful? Why didn't you expect the nominal heating season to end? And why are these bills like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U110	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U111	Thank you. Of course, it should not be forgotten that people's incomes have increased. It's not really out of this equation either. Yes, inflation has been higher, it is really extraordinary, given that wage increases in previous years have been above inflation. This is the first year in which all bad circumstances coincide. Now, it is true that the main cause of inflation is housing and housing costs. If you look at them, they really have increased considerably. The bad news is April was extremely cold. In fact, in April we have also enjoyed a very warm appearance, and the hope was that this spring heat and light too, which gives us the opportunity to use less electricity, actually comes to the aid. But April was very cold. Now, what did we do? We did extend this targeted measure to help families whose income is below the median for all costs, both gas, electricity and district heating, in order to help them cope with the costs. But it is clear that we cannot pay this support without limit to everyone, just because we do not have that kind of money in the budget. What can be done by looking forward, I mean just next winter? Now I hope the weather is getting warmer, the sun is already more. This means that there is also more renewable electricity, which should also bring the price of electricity down. People could then, for example, fix electricity contracts at a lower price for a longer period of time to take away the nervous tension that this part is increasing. Unfortunately, this is more difficult for gas and district heating. In the case of district heating, prices are controlled or controlled by the Competition Authority, which also considers that these costs correspond to inputs, but it is true that these inputs, when we talk about wood chips or gas, have simply increased. So these prices are going up. Why I am talking about this is that we must, of course, look at whether an additional support measure is needed in the autumn. But we also have to look, all people could see what they could do to keep the costs down. And this price fixing would be an option.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U112	And now for a more specific question, Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U113	Thank you. These utilities and housing prices are above 40% of the overall price increase. Living in an ordinary panelhouse and getting my heat from Utilitas as a central heating unit, there's no way I can reduce my consumption. It's inevitable. And actually, as a member of the management board of the building management company, I see that people's ability to pay bills has fallen, debtors have come more in this winter, even in spite of these decreases, targeted measures and so on. Apartment associations were also not prepared to have no money to pay current bills. Now, as a member of the board, I have to break the law, go after the repair fund and pay the current bills from that repair fund, hoping that someday that money will come back. It's a vicious circle that's very difficult to get out of. And you, in answer to Mr West Forest's question, say that this is inflation and there are no simple solutions. But what is the solution? Are we waiting for the fall and hope it gets better? What are these solutions? Is it not the government that has to offer these solutions? The Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed and have been repeatedly rejected, for example by raising the tax-free minimum to a minimum wage, so that people have more money in their pockets so that they can manage this inflation somehow. And the limit of living is not the solution, that we hope that people will become even poorer and then apply for income support. What is the solution of the Government of the Republic of Estonia now? The answer that there is no solution is not the answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U114	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U115	Just because the solution I have proposed or the solution proposed by the government does not suit you does not mean that we do not offer it. That's the argument we're having. It is also true that the situation is very difficult. There are no simple solutions to curb inflation, or rather, if you read any economic textbook, then there are two solutions: one solution is to raise interest rates, which are central banks' property, and the other solution is to cut the budget that the country can do. These are the two solutions that actually help contain inflation, because once again, the reason for inflation is that there are too few goods and there is too much money. So this is the main problem. What else are we gonna do? Firstly, we will increase income support by 33% to help the most vulnerable groups cope with their increased costs. I have a meeting with Estonian energy sellers on Friday on precisely the issue that they can do for their part to meet consumers, because it is really a big problem, it is difficult for people to pay these bills. Are producers or sellers, for their part, ready to take any steps to alleviate this situation? Let's find solutions there. What else we are doing is that [must] deal with the fact that there is more supply in the market to make prices go down, but it is not just up to us, but it is actually a global problem. For example, in the case of district heating, let us look at whether district heating companies are able to switch to cheaper fuel, but we cannot do this for them either, but it is their decision on how they deal with these things. If more and more people have problems, I believe that this will also give incentives to district heating companies to think about how to deal with this situation so that people do not find it difficult to pay their bills. That's their problem exactly the same. So we are concerned about this here all together and the rising housing costs are a major problem, because it takes a very large part of people's costs that cannot be avoided. You can really avoid maybe eating salmon-- Lauri Läänemets said that the price of salmon is high-costed-- that you can avoid, but you can't avoid paying rent or district heating if you want to live there. So these are definitely troubles.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U116	And now one more question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U117	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Sire! I'm listening to what you're doing here, and I'm saying that you're not doing anything to make it easier for people to live and they can solve their problems. You're telling us about some economic textbooks, which is why inflation is. You have much simpler tools. Why do you not do what Poland did, reduce the price of fuel, car fuel to a minimum level in the European Union, where the price is somewhere within a euro. When are you going to take this step?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U118	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U119	In the case of Poland, by the way, they lowered the tax and after two weeks the price was higher than before the reduction. What I mean by this is that, in fact, both the reduction in VAT and the reduction in excise duty will help the poorest, help those who consume more, and, unfortunately, these amounts have not come to consumers. I also have tables that show that in those countries that have reduced excise duties or VAT to a minimum, the fuel prices are, unfortunately, not lower than our own, simply because producers also take their difference from there. And there are so many examples. Read the reports of the Institute of Economics on this subject. So we are trying to help those people who are the hardest, we do not want to give inflation additional strength or additional impetus. And let's try to survive this difficult time like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. A procedural question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U121	Thank you, Mr President. But what to do about basically our prime minister, who's talking about some tables. We do not need to look at any tables; we have the highest inflation rates in Europe. This shows that there is no or no desire or ability to cope with the governance of this country. Would it be possible to make a statement to him that if he spoke, his answers would also come from specific facts?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U122	Thank you. I see no reason to go into the content of the question or answer as the chairman of this Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U123	Now let's move on to question 10. It is presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo, answers Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, the subject is the Constitution and the rule of law. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I come back to the subject of Minister Liina Kersna. I will also read the facts for the sake of the verbatim. In October last year, Minister Kersna entered into rapid tests with a private limited company Selfdiagnostics amounting to EUR 5.1 million, without contacting any other company. And that is what they themselves called unproclaimed negotiated procurement. About a month later, under the so-called framework agreement, urgent tests were acquired from Medesto Logistics in the amount of EUR 2,4 million. This was also called the open negotiated procedure, i.e. no legal tender. In January of this year, the Minister extended the framework agreement, i.e. increased the amount and ordered another test from Medesto Logistics, this time EUR 1.2 million. All the above-mentioned transactions were in fact in breach of the Public Procurement Act. § 300 of the Penal Code provides for penalties for non-compliance with public procurement requirements and provides that the infringement of the requirements of the public procurement procedure for the purpose of granting an advantage to the participant in the proceedings, as well as the public procurement procedure required under the law, are punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to five years for the purpose of granting an advantage for the award of a public contract. Given that you are also a lawyer and legal education, you know that laws apply at all times, regardless of the circumstances, and not selectively. I'd like to know now. Since, pursuant to § 93 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister represents the Government of the Republic and directs its activities, I ask: do you make a statement to the Committee of Inquiry on the guilty actions of Minister Kersna? When is the announcement of the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U125	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U126	Thank you. The government's common and uniform principle was that everything must be done to keep society as open as possible and schools as open as possible. Today, when we have beautiful weather out there and the corona doesn't exist at all, no one remembers the time that it was. It was a very different time. We worked hard to get schools to be open, parents to work and the economy to function. Thanks to the rapid action of the Ministry of Education and Research, schools received rapid tests after school holidays that identified over a thousand possible carriers of the virus in the first week. Otherwise, schools would be focused on distance learning. We know that distance learning has had a very depressing effect on children, and it has also had a difficult effect on parents. Thanks to testing, both schools and recreational education were able to be as open as possible through different viral waves, because children were constantly tested at home by rapid tests taken from schools three times a week, twice a week. This has a significant impact on children's mental health as well as on learning outcomes. Thanks to this test, teachers as well as students and parents were able to feel secure because sick children remained at home. There really was much of a situation where the child did not have any symptoms, yet he was carrying the virus. When he stayed home, he wouldn't pass on the virus. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Minister acted in a limited space of time, in good faith that the current legal order would be respected, and in order to ensure that education would be safely open to everyone after school holidays. So really, after all, it's very good to evaluate everything, but at this point, it was at stake that schools were going to jail, the kids were going to distance school again, or that we could select sick children or those carrying the virus as soon as possible and that the schools could be safe and open.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U127	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions. I thank the members of the government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will begin the 14th working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now, as usual, it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Please, Eduard Odines!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I welcome you all on today's diversity day and I welcome you in advance also on Sunday [for the International Family Day to be celebrated]. In this context, on behalf of the Socialists and Raimond Kaljulaid, I am fortunate to pass on the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws. As we know, the current legislation, especially the Family Benefits Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U130	I'm sorry for a second. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U131	Yes, I understand that family issues are very important to everyone. It is important, however, that the current laws on family benefits and social tax do not equate spouses with partners. We want to correct this mistake because the Supreme Court has repeatedly expressed the view that family law extends equally to both spouses and partners. We wish to follow the recommendations of the Supreme Court and improve the law accordingly. In addition, in the Family Benefits Act, the Social Tax Act and the Employment Contracts Act, the spouses have already been treated as partners in a number of paragraphs, paragraphs and several paragraphs. In order to have the same principle throughout the law, we present this bill and hope that the Riigikogu will process this bill very quickly and very reasonably, so that all Estonian families, regardless of whether there are spouses or registered partners, will live their family lives happily. Thank you. I'll hand it over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U132	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft amendment to the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act, which have been developed to prevent Estonia from becoming a cheap labour land, as this would discourage innovation and suppress the wage levels of Estonian workers. We believe that immigration must give priority to highly qualified professionals and rule out the exceptions by which it is being circumvented. The second objective is to stop English-speaking at the expense of the Estonian taxpayer of Estonian universities and to support the quality of university education, as well as to exclude universities from becoming the so-called migration pump, or jumpboard, through which third-country nationals can enter the European Union. The third and main objective is to comply with the Estonian Constitution, according to which the Republic of Estonia was created to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. The implementation of the Constitution is threatened by the current mass immigration, the sensible regulation of which is the main objective of the draft. The draft does not concern Ukrainian refugees. I would like to repeat my advice to the government coalition and the Socialist ambassadors: I recommend supporting this bill because if you do not, you may not have enough jobs if you lose your place in the Riigikogu after the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U134	There is no further wish for speech or for the referral of drafts or enquiries. Thus, the two drafts that were handed over will be decided by the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U135	74 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U136	Now a little more detail on the agenda. In fact, we remembered yesterday that the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Democratic Party and Raimond Kaljulaid's Income Tax Act 562 was still under way, namely in the country where the representative of the initiators answered the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. Now that Mr. Kaljulaid is ready to come here with the aid... [[Raimond Kaljulaid explains the floor.]] Can you? But can you stand too, no problem? (Raimond Kaljulaid explains.) Very good. The thing about the questions was that we stopped where Eduard Odinets and Heljo Pikhof were [the questions], but it seems that more have come. So let's get started right away so Mr. Kaljulaid can answer them all. Please, Eduard Odines!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The waitress of the bill! The Question Time just ended, in which the Prime Minister repeatedly and repeatedly expressed the view that there are no easy or good solutions to combat current inflation and help people; the solutions are all very complex. He was referring to economic textbooks and other such circumstances. In fact, the social democrats have a very good and very simple solution to make sure that people actually have more money in their hands so that they can cope with life and its huge inflation. It's a small step, but it's a step to support people. The government has already repeatedly rejected it, has not supported it, the Reform Party and the Centre Party have also. What do you think? If there are no solutions, the solutions proposed by others are not appropriate. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U138	Thank you, dear fellow. Well, I would say this is a small step for the Riigikogu, but a big step for the people of Estonia if we support this bill. But I think everyone understands that the problem is that today's government has a different concept of what to do with taxes, and there is probably no political will to find compromises and consensus. But the solution, I think, could be, as usual, that Jaanus Karilaid would send a public letter and then the Reform Party would agree in a few weeks. That's the way it's been in this government so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U139	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U140	Thank you. I think this bill is absolutely right and necessary, and in this very time. According to Eurostat's preliminary estimate, annual inflation in Estonia was 19% in April, which was the fastest price increase in the euro area. If we have a minimum wage of 654 [EUR], the net gain will be 604 euros. As I said to the Prime Minister in the previous Question Time, if taxes were to be deducted, 2,3 monthly wages would have been lost by the end of the year in the context of this 19% inflation. This means that purchasing power is only EUR 485 per month instead of EUR 604. If the salary is EUR 1000 net, its purchasing power would be only EUR 810 per month and EUR 2280 per year would disappear from its purchasing power. My question is, how can people get in their hands more? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Perhaps you'll repeat the Socialist proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U141	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U142	We can see that inflation is eating.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U143	I will explain very briefly. If our proposal were to be enforced, it would mean that all those earning up to EUR 2 000 per month would benefit from a tax-free share of EUR 654. That would be a very big change. Today, as we know, there is only a EUR 500 tax-free minimum, up to a salary of EUR 1200. Another big change is that this so-called hump starts to rise a lot louder. This means that even those who earn more than EUR 2 000 would have a less steep rise in the income tax rate than those who earn more than EUR 1,200 a month today. That's the principle, and that's what people will win from. Of course, when you talk about inflation figures, it is clear that the most painful thing to do is to hit people with lower incomes and spending on food, housing and car fuel. The rural family will certainly lose over EUR 1 000 on car fuel alone, compared to four years or a few years ago. These are serious figures, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U144	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, when you introduced the bill, you brought it up to explain, for example, the teacher's salary. Could you repeat that to explain this more?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U146	Yes, I know the interest of a very respected colleague [on the subject] and the great concern about the incomes of Estonian teachers. I happen to have more detailed information on teachers' salary records. The minimum wage for teachers is currently EUR 1412. The truth is that the current government has raised teachers' salaries, while teachers' salaries rose by 7.3% this year. But for example, I have here next April's inflation number, which was 18%. This increase in teachers' pay in reality is still a wage cut, in fact, the government coalition has cut teachers' wages, let us be honest. Teachers with a minimum rate of 1412 euros are already so wealthy in the Estonian state that they will be subject to a higher rate of income tax. Our proposal is to lift this border, get the teachers out of there under their humps. Let's just say that for a teacher who earns the minimum rate, this will also make savings of over EUR 1 000 a year. This, I think, is an important addition for the teacher's family. I am very surprised that the government does not want to come behind this proposal or does not want to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U147	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Good Raimond! This initiative by the Social Democrats is undoubtedly very necessary and appropriate, because it helps to reduce the labour poverty of the people of Estonia to a significant extent. You brought out beautifully how much more money the teacher would have on average each year with this bill. Have you also made a calculation of how much more money our bill would leave to nurses, rescuers and policemen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U149	For example, if we are talking about nurses and midwives, their average income, according to the Institute for Health Development, is 2 000 euros. But if our proposal were to come into force, they would remain quite at the beginning of this new tax hump and, of course, this would also mean an important victory for them. The same applies to rescuers who, of course, have particularly low incomes. The country has not been able to ensure sufficient wage increases for rescuers in recent years. I think the rescuers are still in the most difficult position of the agencies you have mentioned. The same is true of many police officers, especially when we talk about patrol officers, for them too, it would actually mean that they get more money. Believe me, all these jobs are extremely necessary for Estonia. The National Audit Office has pointed out that over the next decade we will face a serious problem in providing essential services to people, precisely because of low wages in these sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U150	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U151	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The Prime Minister was right in Question Time that the Estonian Government is not able to hold back inflation, given the reasons for inflation, what is happening in energy, world market prices, changes in the logistics chain caused by war and corona. Secondly, the Prime Minister is right that it is not possible to pay the price increase for everyone. This cannot be done, but it does not need to be done. After all, the only thing we can do is adapt and support the livelihoods of people who find it difficult to cope with price increases, whose baskets make up a large part of food, which spends a lot on fuel, for example because they live in rural areas, drive children to schools and hobby groups, and for those whose housing costs take away a large part of their wages. Perhaps you would say that, in view of this, this is a measure for those who are working and those who are earning lower than average wages, which is well targeted and would allow them to adapt to the current price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U152	Thank you. Well, this Prime Minister's argument, that has also been used here by some of our colleagues from the Prime Minister's Party, that the state cannot pay for the entire price increase, is such a rhetorical move, where the opponent is given a claim that he has not said, and then overturned, it is said that it is absurd and we cannot pay for the whole price increase. After all, no one has put forward such a proposal and, of course, it would be economically absurd; it cannot be done. Indeed, our proposal is to help precisely these people, families with lower incomes and, in fact, middle-class families, all the ordinary working Estonian people, who are very difficult and who are roped by the state, literally take more income tax away from them than I think is ethical. The last thing I would say on this point: yes, in the light of the current price increases, this amendment to the law is very necessary, extremely necessary, but in fact we should also make this change if we had normal inflation for Estonia and no crisis. In this case too, at least the tax system should be reformed at present, and it would be even better to make it gradual. The fact that inflation is currently high only confirms this need.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U153	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U154	Honourable waitress! The specific nature of the tax system that you want to repair is that it is the most harmful in terms of taxation for those people who are in this tax hump with their income. In other words, each additional euro will be taxed at the normal rate, but every additional euro will lead to a gradual reduction of the tax-free income. This means that within the tax hump, the marginal tax rate will rise to 34%. Your bill repeats this mistake. Whether it is 34% or 33% or a little less, it doesn't really matter, it's still more than 30% of the marginal tax rate and it's the most harmful thing to be inside that tax hump. But here you are, from EUR 3080 onwards, the normal tax rate is better in terms of taxation. Why? Where is the logic that the richest people are more affordable in terms of taxation than those who receive slightly higher-than-average incomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U155	Mr Sõerd, this is where I have to agree with you. The main drawback of this so-called tax hump was very elegantly brought out. No one's denying that. Of course, it would be our desire to introduce traditional, traditional progressive income tax in Estonia. Of course we would like that. If it were politically real, politically doable, politically possible, we would do it right now. But realising that it is probably impossible to get support for this idea within this Riigikogu, that is something that I hope can be dealt with after the next elections, it is a kind of compromise proposal. Yeah, well, we're not happy with the car we're driving right now. Since he's driving awfully bad and kicking smoke out, we're gonna have to fix him, and hopefully in a year we'll have a chance to get a new car. That is the current situation. Buying new cars is what's going to happen right now. I'm gonna have to wait at least a year. So is the new tax system, Mr Sõerd. It's just gonna take a little while. Give us that year. But this argument does not mean that we should, in the meantime, kidnap teachers, rescuers and policemen in broad daylight as a state. However, the Reform Party could agree that this theft from the middle class's pocket must be stopped. It has to be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U156	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable draft waitress! Indrek Neivelt has given an interview today, and he has very well pointed out that, in fact, the level of wages of our kind, as he then calls, an industrial worker is comparable to that of Finland and Sweden, the only difference is that we have employees' taxes at EUR 1500 to 2000 are very high, in Finland and Sweden are not. When we talk about price increases, inflation, it is actually that it makes our services considerably more expensive and people themselves are doing much worse. Perhaps in this context you will also help to open our eyes to what it is actually doing to the Estonian economy. How can we finally come out of the crisis because of this? This bill might provide a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U158	Absolutely, I agree with Mr Neivelt in every way. It is precisely in this current crisis that we should look at the tax side, because the factors that have created this high price increase really have little or no opportunity for the Estonian government to influence or should lead to a completely different policy. Perhaps more similar to what Hungary is currently dealing with, but I fear that the majority of the Estonian people will certainly not agree with it again, I would certainly not recommend that. In this sense, Mr Neivelt is absolutely right. Of course, once again: if people who earn less income or average income increase their incomes, the quite significant part of it will actually be returned to the state budget immediately, because these people would rather spend their money on goods and services here in Estonia and thus help our companies to achieve their goals, so that it would be of all benefit. But lately, you know, these expert advice doesn't work well in this hall. It was yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that we discussed that the people of Estonia who are willing to accommodate war refugees could be financially supported. This is an idea that Andrus Ansip has publicly supported, but the Reform Party voted against this proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not notice that their former chairman and still a very honourable person in the party have clearly called for this principle to be applied in Estonia. So in this sense, I would also recommend that the government departments continue to respect these experts and experienced people more. Grayheads respect, says the proverb. I think Ansip is the gray head of the Reform Party, who could be more respected inside the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U159	Eduard Odines, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Raimond! In parallel with this Social Democrat bill to exempt the minimum wage from income tax, trade unions have come up with an idea or a proposal, perhaps not yet with the demand that the minimum wage should rise as soon as possible and perhaps EUR 700 of their proposal. What do you think of that idea and idea? In addition to these grey-headed people retreating from politics, should real people, real workers, and their voices be heard? Can the voice of a working person ever reach this hall? And a comment on this proposal from the trade unions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U161	This trade union proposal, thank you for your question. The proposal is very correct. This is exactly in line with what we are offering. People's income needs to be increased. I think that this proposal for a minimum wage should be addressed very seriously. I also call on the government, which participates in these negotiations as a very important party, to stand all the way for the minimum wage to rise. Time to wait, I don't think. If the minimum wage increases, perhaps we should start talking about a new tax-free minimum, because taxation of the minimum wage with income tax still seems to me to be a strange idea. I don't know why the Reform Party wants to do this so badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U162	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U163	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu and many consider you to be a very strong, even expert in the field of taxation. Thank you very much for today's presentation, it was brilliant and very professional. But I want to ask whether the current income tax system needs fundamental changes and what they might be. You told me about it, but maybe you'd talk about it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U164	Any more of that? Yes, thank you! First of all, of course, thank you for the compliment. Fortunately, in the Riigikogu there are people who are competent in tax matters in all political groups. I think many people understand that this draft is the right one, and if it is rejected, it is only because it has not come up with any of the government departments. But, as I said, in the case of income tax in Estonia, I think the compromise that was made in the past in the form of this tax hump certainly improved the livelihood of many people raised people's incomes. Time has passed. We have seen that nothing bad will happen, the Estonian economy will not collapse if income tax accounts are not uniform for all, as was the long-standing wish of dogma and some of our colleagues here. In my opinion, we could take this step boldly today and still introduce progressive income tax in Estonia. I remember that there was once another major party in Estonia, a considerable forceful party that demanded it, but I do not know what has become of them lately. Lately, they don't talk so much about progressive income tax. But I remember they were quite serious about that in their time. There was a TV commercial with boxes that explained what this progressive income tax was.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U165	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, the Reform Party has never realized that 1, 2, 3 and so on, until 19, the numbers are less than 20. They still have it the other way around. It was also quite interesting to hear it again from Mr Sõerdi. I guess it's true that if the snow is actually white, but the Reform Party is having a black day, then we all have to realize that the snow is black. It was a little weird that you went along with it. Do you think, for example, 19 or 1 is greater than 20? We know that 20 is the maximum tax ceiling. Perhaps an additional question. How do you feel about getting a deal with the Reform Party so that in the future those who have to pay 20% tax will pay 25%?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U167	Thank you. This is, of course, a deep philosophical question that you touched on, regarding the numbers and why we take them as axioms in mathematics, for example, why we don't ask mathematics questions about how anyway, so that 2 is 2 and 3 is 1 more than that. In this sense, it is an interesting question that you have raised. It seems to me that this is one of the issues that you could discuss more closely with your colleague, highly respected semiotic professor Mikhail Lotman. He certainly has ideas about what specifically concerns the axiomic nature of numbers in mathematics.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U168	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U169	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Two hours ago, news was published in the ERR that tax revenues increased by 16.3% in the first quarter. In my opinion, this is a good illustration of the fact that fiscal revenues are growing rapidly in an inflationary environment. As they are linked to wages and prices, to nominal value, not to what is actually obtained by purchasing power, the budget will improve beautifully due to inflation. People's wages, on the other hand, I think there are very few people who can say that their wages increased by 16.3% in the first quarter. Perhaps this systemic risk has materialised, which means extra costs for the state, but simply higher costs for people. It is very difficult to find that particularly low-paid households themselves can mitigate this type of risk. In such a situation, how do you find that the state should take on a greater role? It is not possible to leave such risks to the shoulders of low-paid people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U170	Thank you. If I may have answered some of the previous questions in half with a little humor, then this is a deadly serious question and requires a very serious answer. Indeed, it is also part of the perceived injustice that is actually very noticeable in society: in a situation where middle-class families, families with lower incomes are very difficult, budget revenues are expanding, and the profits of certain companies, state companies, are expanding. Someone in this economic situation that we have is very winning, while a large majority loses. I think that part of this perceived injustice is certainly also reflected in the rapid rise in property prices. There are those who have had excessive [income] or have had income to invest in real estate, who have become much more wealthy because they have this property, and at the same time very many families can no longer afford their own homes even for a home loan, just as their parents could, or this home is far from meeting the expectations that the family has. I am very afraid that this feeling of dissatisfaction and injustice that already exists in society will only increase and deepen by autumn, and if nothing is done in time, we will have a very explosive situation by the end of the year, and there will certainly be those who will try to take advantage of it. So my appeal to my fellow Members is that we take seriously those proposals that could reduce this pressure and let it out of this system, because sooner or later people's patience may be interrupted and we can see that politics is being made not in this Chamber, but in the streets. We certainly would not like to see that in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U171	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Raimond! I am currently reading the draft law on additional budget in the Riigikogu proceedings. It shows that the current government is also fighting poverty. There is a desire to pay people a lump sum of EUR 50 per year, which is EUR 1.4 per month. Very powerful! (It will be corrected to read: "EUR 4.1. ") Sorry, 4.1 euros. Perhaps you will go over briefly why the Social Democrat bill or initiative is much better. How does this really help people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U173	Thank you. Of course, I do not have any additional budget documents in front of me now, but I will say from memory, if I am not mistaken that this government support of EUR 4 and 17 cents to the people of Estonia represents 13 + 17 [million] of the additional budget, of the order of 30 million euros. This is what is going to help people, the elderly and families with children, while hundreds of millions go to national defence, it is very right that they go, and hundreds of millions are involved in the reception of war refugees, and it is very right that these expenses are currently being incurred. Hundreds of millions go to ensure energy security and it is very right that we are dealing with energy security. But it seems to me that the government does not now have that feeling, that it does not realize that for a lot of people, the question arises that listen, but our own people, the background, why doesn't pay attention to it at all. Our proposal is, of course, much more expensive, ten times more expensive than what the government currently allocates to people with this EUR 50 one-off allocation. At the same time, however, it is not as much a cost to the state as we are comparing it with the costs we are currently spending on defence, energy security, the reception of war refugees and so on. So I think, indeed, that this perceived inequality and injustice in society should be reduced, it would certainly take much more important steps to support the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U174	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I might ask you a little bit more than this bill is. In fact, the debate on taxes is very relevant. Here we really heard once again from the Reform Party that, in fact, we could actually do this step-by-step income tax now. However, I would like to remind you that we have never had this stepwise, in the sense that there is a so-called tax-free [part] and then there will be a uniform taxation. It is currently EUR 500. Which option would you prefer? I somehow read from your introduction or answers to the questions that the current system is still better than this two-step system. How many steps would you actually see if you wanted to introduce this step-by-step income tax so you could somehow figure out where the context of today's law [the bill] is going?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U176	Mr. Hepner, you raise such great theoretical questions. There's been a lot of debate about that. If we are talking about a completely tax-free part and that goes on, isn't it, income tax 1%, regardless of the amount of human income, can we talk about graduated income tax? After all, there are no levels in income tax; this 0 is not a degree; it is simply part of income that is not taxed on income tax. Personally, this system would not have been recognised as graduated income tax. It was a uniform income tax, and this is a compromise between the two of them, isn't it? Once again, it's hard to say, it's going to be the steps, it's going to be a certain degree of change, a curve, let's say that. [[Someone's explaining the floor.]] Yeah, let's say he's not like a step, he's like a ramp. In that sense, he's different from the stairs. But my preference would really be to have progressive income tax in Estonia, once again, instead of this current system. Step-by-step income tax: how many steps are there, where are they supposed to be? I think this is a matter that deserves a completely separate debate and debate in this Chamber, but I am glad that the Fatherland is so enthusiastic about it. In fact, it was a major step for you to abandon this uniform tax system in your time, that you agreed to it. It is only a small step forward to achieve progressive income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U177	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U178	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The minimum wage is exempt from income tax, it is one approach, and the average pension, or even the minimum wage, pensions are equally exempt from income tax is one approach that is worth discussing and which is basically supported by the Fatherland. But my question is from a slightly different angle, which is not directly related to this bill. How do you, or even the Social Democrats, view it as the initiator of the draft, that the minimum wage is very often linked to the cost of the services provided, especially those provided by local authorities, be it kindergarten pay or other things? Is that right and reasonable, or should this practice be terminated in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U179	Thank you. This practice is really questionable, I agree with you. This practice is completely questionable. Of course, when we talk about kindergarten pay, it is the view of the social democrats that the kindergarten fee should not be at all. We do not understand why we have free higher education and general education, but pre-school education is subject to a fee for parents for some reason. In Tallinn, for example, where we and the Centre Party exercise city power, starting with the second child of the family, the kindergarten is free of charge. Also, in anticipation of the fact that we are going to have high price increases, the rise in energy prices was already a reality at the moment when we made the coalition agreement, we agreed on a very important principle that the first child's place in kindergarten will not rise in Tallinn as long as we are in this city government. This is a very important principle; it is, in fact, now that families are better able to cope. We introduced additional support for families with children going to school and, at the same time, we are increasing the additional support paid to older people in the capital, which has been paid for years, it is also increasing. So these measures, which really increase the income of these people, are now very important. On a local level, we may not be able to do as great things as we can in this Chamber with the very respected Fatherland, so I call on the Fatherland to support this proposal. I don't know, we will soon also be discussing a proposal that is close to your heart with regard to excise duties, and perhaps there too, we have more common ground than maybe at first glance you might think.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U180	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of progressive income tax, you kind of gave a hint to a party that's come up with it before. What was behind this tip, and has this party given up progressive income tax today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U182	Thank you. Indeed, yes, I hinted at it and tried to knock on the conscience of my fellow Members, who have indeed promised their supporters in the elections to stand for progressive income tax, for years and years. I'm just wondering where that progressive income tax is. I see that a good colleague, Marika, looks at me. I would ask: progressive income tax and support for forced tenants, where are they? These have been long-term principles for certain colleagues, but for some reason in the government, they are no longer as hard as I think they should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U183	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U184	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since you didn't get an answer to my first question, I'll give you a second chance to answer. You have long described the good ideas of the Socialists. But the question was whether it would be a good idea to link the price of various public services and services provided by local authorities to the minimum wage that would be negotiated. Is that a good idea or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U185	Honourable Mr. Ceder! I must first stress that I did not describe the good thoughts of the social democrats, but the good deeds we have done in Tallinn, which is the capital of Estonia, where a large part of the Estonian population lives, and which, I believe, the people of Tallinn appreciate very much and which we have implemented together with the Centre Party in Tallinn and which could also serve as a model for state policy. Once again, I said that linking the price of public services to the minimum wage is not acceptable to us; we do not consider it a good principle. I believe that we both have well-known reasons and what are the drawbacks of this approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U186	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U187	Thank you, my good colleague. Let me ask you this right now: would you define what is actually progressive income tax and whether it is equal to progressive income tax or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U188	Thank you. You see, sooner or later, these tax bats will come up with these general principles. That is right, these things must be addressed, but I would say that what is important to the people of Estonia is important. I think it would be a welcome principle for the Estonian people that the wealthier people, whose incomes are higher, pay a higher rate of income tax than those whose incomes are smaller, who are not so wealthy. I think this principle is important. Whether we call it one way or another, we highlight some aspects of this tax system or others, all of which is already a technical dispute that should be dealt with here in the Riigikogu at the committees and, of course, during plenary sessions. But the principle that the wealthier are more capable of paying a higher rate of income tax, I think we agree that this could be the cornerstone on which this new income tax policy is based.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U189	Marika Tuus-Laul, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U190	Thank you. In fact, when you get that income and then all taxes go off, it's from there, from your end result, that redistribution is made according to wealth and poverty, not that taxes are immediately deducted according to the amount of income. So what I'm trying to say is that exponential and progressive like there isn't the same thing, they're different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U191	Thank you. But I believe that in this we share that progressive income tax means that wealthier people ultimately have a slightly higher rate of income tax, and that it is certainly manageable for them as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U192	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U193	Thank you. You have been speaking throughout the presentation about how the wealthier people should be solidarityable, which is, of course, extremely uplifting to listen to. But we do know that if we wanted to tax the place where this wealth really is, we should still talk about corporate income taxation. Why aren't we hearing about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U194	Thank you for this question. Well, here we definitely have a remarkable joint once again. There are also many in the Social Democratic Party and among the leading politicians of this party who think that Estonia could also have a similar tax regime for taxing corporate profits, as is largely the case in Europe, and that it would be beneficial both for the cohesion of society and for avoiding certain tax reductions, optimization techniques that can be used today by those people whose revenues are higher, who can use such methods to optimise their tax burden. So this is definitely the kind of thing that I am prepared to sit down with the Centre Party, discuss it, and jointly work out a draft on this subject, for example, and present it here, even after the draft has been dealt with and the agenda of today's sitting has been exhausted. We will be able to adopt it in the autumn and why not implement it from the beginning of next year. If this is acceptable to you and Mr Karilaid and Mr Ratas want to join us, then in my opinion, as soon as the agenda of the sitting is exhausted, we can get together, we can put it on paper, let's do it. What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U195	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U196	Thank you. It was also extremely nice to hear that, because I understand that the Social Democrats have changed their minds. After all, it was the decision taken with the participation of the Social Democrats that corporate income tax was abolished, it was the Laari government, where the Soviets knocked down their temple. I understand there's been a change of mind about this. But if this bill is going to be done, and indeed, the Estonian tax system needs to change, then why did you not dare to put it in here, to say clearly that we no longer have anything to do with those socialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U197	Thank you. Well, think about it if I were to name all the decisions that the Centre Party has signed, which have been demanded by its coalition partners in the Central Party, and I would start to ask why you were in favour of these things. But I think the substantive answer is that the context has also changed. The main question for Estonia in the late 1990s and early 2000s was how to achieve rapid economic growth, rapid progress, how to encourage investment and reinvestment of profits earned by companies. To a certain extent, this solution offered at that time, it seems to me personally, was at least an intellectually interesting idea and an elegant idea. Of course, I do not know exactly what these considerations were, how the government at that time decided to do so. But today is a very different context. After all, today it is not, I think, for a very large number of companies, which are flagships of the Estonian economy and carry our economic growth, so much more the question of how to invest in real estate or machinery, but the main assets that are wanted to invest and invest to a significant extent are people. That is why I think it is right to think about whether we should come to a new consensus in order to bring labour taxes down and perhaps to make up for it with some other changes that make the tax system fairer, so that at the same time we do not fail to finance the necessary expenditure for the country. So in that sense, too, the situation has simply changed in several decades. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U198	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U200	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U201	Then I'm out of here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U202	We'll wait a little while, and then we can ask the Committee on Monetary Affairs for Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Finance discussed the draft 562 at its meeting on 2 May. The draft introduced Riina Sikku as the initiator's representative. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda on Tuesday 10 May, but it shifted to today, and the Commission decided to propose to reject it at first reading: by 6, against 3, and with no abstentions 1. I will give an overview of this debate in the Commission. Riina Sikkut presented the purpose and content of the draft. He explained that the Socats have already made proposals to increase the unfairly low tax-free income, twice in total during the composition of the Riigikogu. This is considered to be crucial for managing low-income households. That is the position of the draft representative. He also said that the draft would raise the income limit, from which onwards tax-free income would start to decrease according to the calculation formula. While it is currently the case that tax-free income is starting to decrease from an annual income of EUR 14400, i.e. a monthly income of EUR 1200, the draft states that the tax-free part will decrease from a monthly income of EUR 2000 or EUR 24000 per year. It is also proposed that the rate of decline should be higher than in the past. If the current Act has a tax-free income of EUR 25200 per year 0, the draft provides that the tax-free income is 0 if there is a monthly income of EUR 3180, i.e. EUR 38160 per year. The budgetary impact would be EUR 200 million per year. However, I will make it clear that it is 247 million, not 200 million, according to the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Whether there is a protocol error or the representative informed us inaccurately. Okay. The initiator of the draft act also stressed that it would be better to make the tax system step up. The Social Democratic Party Group would support such a solution rather than this current system, which is difficult to understand in practice for people. Okay. I myself asked the question as to what would be, according to the initiators' estimates, a marginal effective tax rate for the income range of EUR 2000 to 3180 per month. The marginal tax rate shows the tax burden on revenues if EUR 1 is added. Then I also asked that if the initiators of the draft proposed the budgetary impact of the draft, EUR 247 million, then what was used as the basis for calculating this amount. In fact, it is not possible to collect these data from elsewhere than from the individual income tax statements, but the last summary of income tax returns is years ago. Riina Sikkut replied that indeed, the distribution of people's income was based on the year 2020. He then explained that, if there is currently an income range of EUR 1,200 to EUR 2,900 here, a clarification must be made again: not 2,900, but 2,100 must be, then this range will be extended, and the reason for extending this range is that the tax rate will not change from the additional euro earned compared to the current system. This is a presumption that people will not be put at a disadvantage in this income range compared to the current situation. Okay. Jürgen Ligi commented that, first of all, public finances must remain together and the tax system must function, it must be simple enough and it must guarantee public funding. The exemption of someone specifically from tax cannot be the point of the tax system. The purpose of the tax system is to ensure that public services are financed in the least disturbing way possible. Those who serve something should be treated fairly. A broad tax base is one way of doing this, with the lowest possible tax rates and as easily as possible an administrationable tax system. But now we are looking at public finances: there is a structural minus of several percent and a crisis at the end of the crisis. A mistake was already made in setting up this tax system. There was too steep an increase in the minimum that the state could not guarantee, and the increase was actually at the expense of the poorer. This is the situation now, the budget hole is deep. You shouldn't be playing with taxes. Riina Sikkut replied that taxation, in the least disturbing way in the economy, would certainly not be a means of low-paid labour taxes. As the average pension becomes tax-free, this type of decision seemed reasonable to the coalition, but helping the working people seems somehow beyond the tax system. I asked myself that if the impact was based on a 2020 summary of income tax returns, but the draft will be in force in 2023, then there will be a shift for several years, there will be quite a large increase in wages in this three year period, so the impact analysis may be underestimated. Then I asked myself, "Where is the budget going to be the money for which taxes are going to be raised or what costs are going to be saved?" Riina Sikkut replied that the ideal would be a much simpler system with proper tax levels that would allow for budgetary neutral changes. But as long as we're stuck with existing income tax, it could be either real estate tax or something else. This debate must be held. We also had a representative of the Ministry of Finance, Lemmi Oro. He explained that the government supported the principle of changing the income tax system. These numbers, which are in law, i.e. 500 euros of tax-free income and 1200 euros, from which the tax-free income begins to decrease, are lagging behind, and that is not right. The government takes the view that retirement age has a tax-free average pension, and if the state's financial opportunities open up, the same approach must be maintained for other groups. Speaking of the state budget, the Government of the Republic does not see the possibility of entering such a minus into the budget at the moment. The government doesn't support the bill. That concludes our debate. Once again, the decisions of the Commission. Propose to put on the agenda on 10 May, it was consensual, to appoint a spokesman for the lead committee, it was consensual, and the Commission proposed to reject the draft: 6 members of the Commission were in favour, 3 were against and 1 member of the Commission abstained. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U204	But there aren't any. However... I'm sorry! Lauri West Forest. Smarter fingers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. You described all these tax-tech questions. But what I am interested in is that the idea and content of this bill is to save those people who find themselves in a very difficult situation because of the rise in prices. That is the substance and the point of this bill. Yes, he is changing the land tax system, but [the idea is] to support these people. There are certainly all kinds of arguments in the same way and in the opposite direction, but did the Commission, in essence, discuss how to help and support these people? If you found that this bill did not work, did the Commission have any idea of how to support these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U206	Thank you for that question. No, I actually gave a very detailed overview of the Commission's debate. That was the end of the debate. We didn't go overboard on this. I will answer you in such a way that your bill will try to repair this tax experiment established in 2018, but this tax experiment has failed. First of all, it does not fit into an inflationary environment, because this tax hump, whatever the range it is, either 1200 and 2100 or, as is the case with you, 3180, it is fixed in euro and in any case, inflation and wage growth will sooner or later fall in the way. It doesn't fit into an inflationary environment, first. Secondly, every extra euro earned within this tax hump is taxed at the normal rate, but in addition, every additional euro will gradually reduce the rate of tax-free income so that it is very damaging to get into that tax hump. Today, we see that there are teachers, policemen and such, say, people with lower incomes on the pay scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U207	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U208	Thank you, dear waitress. In your report, you stated that one of the arguments against the Commission was that there was a deep budget gap and that taxes should not be played. Could you be more specific, please? The Government of the Republic has given us an extra budget for this procedure. Does it increase or reduce this budget gap, and does it include any tax changes? Perhaps you could also clarify whether the fact that taxes are not allowed to be played applies only to other parties, but the Reform Party can play with taxes? So, what's it like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U209	We discussed the additional budget at other sittings, also yesterday, we are still continuing the debate on the additional budget, and this debate will also come to the Chamber. This is a completely different issue, and we did not make it so much in the Commission. I tell you this: if you are still making a draft with a budget impact of EUR 247 million per year, in fact probably greater, because you have outdated data taken as the basis, the summary of income declarations several years ago, then it should still be shown what are the permanent sources of coverage of these fixed costs, whether there is anything to oppose them, but the author of the bill owed the answer in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U210	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U211	Hello! Good waitress! Here's the question. I understand that okay, the opposition bill is not good, and it is never very good. But does the government itself have a plan in the back pocket to raise the tax-free income to the minimum wage? Or is there no plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U212	This, of course, was not discussed in the Commission; this was not the case. But I will answer you in such a way that this tax experiment, which we have several years and which was introduced in 2018, does not make any sense, because it simply does not fit into Estonia's circumstances and, in fact, this tax experiment should be declared a failure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U213	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U214	Thank you. Well, for the sake of the verbatim report, it should be said that the government itself actually wants to significantly increase the budget gap with the additional budget, and that the additional budget also provides for the introduction of VAT speciality, i.e. tax changes. So here is the position of the government representatives that what we are doing is good, but if someone else is offering something that is similar in substance or the same, it is very bad and it has to be opposed. However, I would like to ask you one more substantive question. You are well aware of the work of the IRS. You mentioned that it is important for income tax accounting to be simple or not complex. Could the Estonian Tax Administration not manage to administer a graduated income tax, as is the case in the Nordic countries, for example? Would this really be a big problem and a challenge for the Estonian state so that these taxes can be properly calculated for the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U215	The Estonian Tax Administration has been at the forefront of the world in the field of information technology, and I do not think that I am exaggerating when I say this. E-declarations, electronic income declaration was created in 2000, more than 20 years ago. It was one of the first or actually the first in the world. So the Estonian tax administration has been at the top of the world from information technology capabilities, and I think it has to this day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U216	No further questions. Thank you! Let's open the negotiations. Please, Lauri West Forest! At first reading, as always the Social Democrats on behalf of the Group and others on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U217	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U218	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the Social Democrats is to support and help those people who are in trouble or in trouble because of the cost of living and to reduce their taxes. It's a very simple thing. Let us think about the situation that has happened: the cost of living is so great that basically, bread costs twice as much in the store, firewood twice as much, fish twice as much, fuel also significantly much more. It affects a lot of people. This affects not only those who have a lower income, but the normal average Estonian family. Let us look at what the government has presented to us in the form of a state budget as a proposal to raise the limit on income support. Yeah, it's important, but there's a fundamental mistake. The fundamental mistake is that it is bad in a person's life when he or she has to receive income support. Our proposal is to prevent people from going so badly in the first place that they fall on income support. Yes, in essence, the aim should be for people to recover most of the money that high inflation has taken away from them to make their lives more difficult. Let's think about the numbers. The average pension earner has lost 91 euros per month in terms of purchasing power, with almost 1200 euros per year being poorer. When we talk about the person who gets the average salary, his income loss is over 230 euros per month. Over EUR 230! In essence, at least a whole month's salary will be lost during the year if not more. If anyone wants to say that people have to survive this inflation and the cost of living and tighten their belts, I would ask how. How should those people who spend a hundred percent of their income paying their living expenses make an effort to buy food, and they don't get away with food, I can assure you that they don't get away with food and pay for transport? Let's think about the outside of Tallinn. A lot of people have to use the car, a lot of people have to use the car to take their children to school, to hobby or to work for themselves. It's not their choice, in the city of Tallinn, I can go by public transport, but they have this forced situation, they can't give up anything. Now one person in one month has more than EUR 200 less to do all of this. When we think about family, one normal, normal, average, typical Estonian family with two parents has 500 euros less each month to live and cope with. It is also true that this issue is not only solved by stopping inflation. Stopping inflation really brings the solution that these costs do not increase or, so to speak, no more money will go out of your pocket. But the increase in prices and life has already taken place, the bread is no longer cheaper, it just doesn't get cheaper, the same fish and very many other services and products are no longer cheaper. This hole has already arisen and it is inevitable that prices will be expensive. Perhaps it is not enough to talk about inflation alone; people must be supported; people must be helped and helped to get them out of this difficult situation. So I call on everyone to support this draft tabled by the Socialists. I would stress: the question is not whether our tax system is simple or complex, or whether a tax is slightly higher or lower, but whether the tax system has to be fair first and foremost. In a situation like this, we need this justice for people whose incomes are very low or even medium, let us say so. Those who are wealthier, yes, they can manage, they can cancel a few trips, they can give up some luxury products, they can have a birthday party at home instead of some big hall or luxury wool. They can do that. But, unfortunately, the average, ordinary Estonian family cannot pull anything together. In addition to the fact that child support has not been raised for the last five years and, essentially, from the support we have for children, a large part has already gone missing, I say that a third of this child benefit has disappeared in the last year, it is very difficult, very difficult. We recall that, when the Social Democrats stood up for raising children's benefits and finally did so when they were in government, children's allowances were raised from EUR 19 and the increase that eventually came was EUR 40 to 50. Forty-fifty euros, and this brought a very large number of children out of poverty, a very large number of children out of poverty. Let us think about how much prices have gone up now or how much money the family lacked, how much this cost has been taken away from children's benefits. This amount is not 30 or 40 euros, it is hundreds of euros. Perhaps I think that if we soon see these studies that say and speak about the situation of Estonian children or what is actually the situation of pensioners, then we must admit that very many have unfortunately fallen under the poverty line. 30000 people live in poverty in Estonia, 270000 people live on the border, in relative poverty. I think this whole price increase is gonna hit them really hard. In some ways, it is quite impertinent to say to a person that if you cannot simply do it physically, you cannot do it. Of course, it is also impertinent to the government's proposal to provide EUR 4 17 cents each month to people with additional budgets at this high cost. 4 EUR 17 cents in a situation where wages or purchasing power have decreased by 230 euros or more. It doesn't get that far. Please support this proposal. Apart from talking about a complex tax talk, which ultimately contradicts the government's own actions, you might think of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U220	More... However, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U221	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Last night or in the morning, this bill was launched, the sun and the moon have been discussed, and people have also been told about their ability to manage their incomes. The Fatherland Party will certainly support a lower income tax for low-paid people. We can say that income tax is 20% for everyone, but the exemption from income tax could be very clear, it could be what the tax-free income is and what amount we are talking about. There are two things that people are constantly confusing here: on the one hand, they say that let's not collect taxes and, on the other hand, they say how much more subsidies should be distributed. In my opinion, it should be clear that grants can be distributed if the State receives taxes, if the State does not receive taxes, they cannot be distributed either. But money comes to the state when a person is buying when he goes to the store and buys something. In order for a person to cope with his own needs, his own household expenses, and family needs, he must also have money in his pocket after payday. In this sense, the social party's proposal makes sense. It makes sense already because in the 2015 Riigikogu elections, the Prosamaa Party said very clearly that 500 euros must be exempt from income tax. At that point, the numbers were completely different. Took many years before the minimum wage reached EUR 500. It's out of the way today. Perhaps the only right decision really is that we should not discuss every year, what the minimum wage is and how much should be exempt from income tax, but that it could be included in the law. There should be a solution. Whether the other side of this bill is reasonable or not to move the tax exemption to EUR 2 000 is questionable, because somewhere this money must come from which we are redistributing. I am pleased that the Social Democrats are talking about this at EUR 44 or, at that moment, it was EUR 39 about raising child support. It came into force from 2014 or 2015. But it was forgotten that the Fatherland Party actually created a large family support, which is 300 euros for three children and 400 euros if there are more than seven children. I am very pleased that the Fatherland Party in its council clearly stated that child support should be EUR 700 next year, and one of the coalition partners, the Centre Party, supports this proposal. When I read the paper today, I see that the chairman of the group has said very clearly to another partner that it should be agreed by this evening so that it can be resolved with an additional budget. But, you know, my problem really is? We're talking about some 200 million. They'll ask if there's any money or not. Here today, before the sitting, the Prime Minister answered the questions, and some other ministers also answered, but no one dares to say that hundreds of millions of electric bills have been taken from our pockets in the last year. If anyone's talking about a war situation or a COVID, he's lying. Electricity is twice as expensive in Estonia as compared to Finland only because of Elering's decision to open a third line between Latvia and Estonia. Just for this, for nothing else. Now everything is being done to make sure that the gas cannot be delivered by LNG ship. You know what, I'd say? The reason is very simple. Please add three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U222	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U223	Very simple, because Finland buys gas from two network companies from Russia. They have an old contract. Their price will be linked to oil prices for at least another eight years. The order of magnitude with which they buy gas is 35 euros per megawatt-hour. They're selling to us at 100. There's no LNG terminal. So who are we gonna buy gas from? We're going to buy gas in Finland. Where does the gas come from in Finland? Russia. But where's the triple profit? Finland. The additional budget is 213 million euros and I do not understand why. For the purchase of gas twice as expensive as the current market price and what private operators have offered, the purchase of shares in the Finnish terminal. This is intended to be done by bringing a draft law to the first reading on the table yesterday in order to circumvent the European Union competition directive. A total of 213 million empty money. However, two or three weeks ago we had an energy debate here, where private operators said a very clear message: they do not want more from the state, or Elering, than to have the pipeline, or this pipe, connected to the network from the terminal dock, and another thing is that there is no obstacle to the sale and purchase of gas on this network. It would be a concern [resolved]. Not a penny. I don't want to tell you that if the minister here says that the construction of this pipe costs $4 million, you might want to ask the next time Elering asked the private operators how much to build this pipe. This difference isn't a percentage, it's a multiple. I'm asking you, what's going on? The money we're saving from people here, or what we're offering by raising the minimum income tax, is nothing compared to what people have had to pay for the last five months because of energy prices, they have to pay the same price tomorrow-day after tomorrow, and I don't know what will happen in winter. It's much worse. If we could solve the problem of energy prices and at one point lead to an income tax exemption [minimum wage], I think that our people could manage themselves, then there would be no need for other subsidies from the state. I don't know if you've got your April bills. I can safely tell you that in April, for example, gas costs were considerably lower than in March, but this bill was much higher because there was no support in April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U224	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U226	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U227	The tax-free income reform announced in late autumn 2016 and entered into force in 2018 made the tax-free rate dependent on the size of the taxpayer's annual income. The Reform Party opposed this experiment because it made the tax system complex and unfair, since the tax hump introduced ate a large part of the wage increase of the people who received the average salary in particular. The tax experiment was embellished with shame: 80% of Estonia's people and 86% of taxpayers claim to win this new tax system. This was told to us in late autumn 2016 and repeated several more years afterwards. Reality shows how things really are. This breaking point compared to the previous system is at EUR 1760. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that there are fewer winners of this new system today than there are losers. Indeed, we also heard today that this income range, which is rigidly fixed in euro, has not been changed for five years, although there have been different coalitions, has reached or is approaching teachers, policemen, social welfare workers and many other groups. It is even more clear today that this tax experiment, which resulted in the tax-free rate of income being dependent on annual income, is not suited to Estonia's circumstances and to the environment of rapid wage increases and inflation. The reverse tax system is unfair and the inadequacy of this system has become clear today. I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that repairing a bankrupt tax system is pointless. The tax hump must be abolished, not extended. There are many of these shortcomings, in this eight minutes I cannot read all of them, but one more aspect that just needs to be addressed. That is, in this euro-fixed income range, whatever it is, currently EUR 1200-2100, the euro added to each income is subject to a normal tax rate and each additional euro earned will gradually reduce the tax-free rate, which is why the Ministry of Finance has calculated it at a marginal effective tax rate that will rise to 34% in that income range. Perhaps in this income range, a large part of the wage increase will be eaten up by the additional tax burden. To sum up, this tax reform, which was announced in 2016 and entered into force in 2018, must be declared a failure, a return to a fair tax system, a uniform tax-free income for all. We don't need to start saving that tax experiment. The Reform Party will certainly not support this draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U228	There are no more requests for negotiations. I will close the negotiations and see what the commission has proposed to us. It seems that it has been proposed to reject draft 562 at first reading. We need to vote this through. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu Member Raimond Kaljulaid and voting on the proposal of the commission to reject the draft at first reading. I therefore put to the vote to reject the draft proposal 562 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U229	With the result in favour 49 and against 24, the draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U230	Our second item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the VAT Act 565. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U231	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I will come before you with a draft tax reduction. Estonia is the country with the fastest price increase in the European Union. In comparison, of course, it should be pointed out that while we were in government, Estonia was the country with the fastest price depression in the European Union, the country with the highest price depression. It certainly depends on government policy, both tax policy and all other regulatory decisions, to a significant extent on whether prices are rising or falling. As the people of Estonia are among those in Europe who spend a large part of their spending on compulsory expenditure, in other words, a very large part of our people's income goes to things that do not have access to food, clothing, home maker, transport, and this proportion of forced expenditure in our people's income is one of the largest in Europe, then, of course, the rise in these costs affects people's livelihoods, people's purchasing power, the economic environment as a whole. It is incomprehensible how a government that takes seriously the mandate given to it to stand up for the well-being of the people of its country can simply stand idly by and do nothing to support people's survival, purchasing power and livelihood in any way. We've come here to help the government. I am very pleased that this draft is in the process or at first reading at the same time as we also have an additional national budget at first reading. We have made the same proposals for an additional budget. We can process them together, we can process them separately, but the content is the same. Let me be brief as to what this is all about. This draft amends and I downgrades it, actually lowers excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. VAT will also be reduced. There is a need to amend both the excise law and the VAT law. This would have resulted, in particular, in alleviating the price shock caused by the sharp increase in energy prices for residents and businesses. The suppression of retail energy prices in turn contributes to maintaining the livelihood and purchasing power of the population, which, in addition, keeps our companies competitive, but it is also very important that it reduces the rise in unemployment. The aim of the reduction of excise duties on energy carriers and the associated VAT rate is to reduce the fall in purchasing power of consumers and businesses as a result of rising energy prices and the loss of competitiveness of businesses. The aim of the tax reduction is also to stabilise the labour market. As a result of the high price increase, a sharp increase in the price of products and services is predicted. In fact, we already have it, we submitted this bill months ago. Any price increases will reduce consumption. For companies, the surge in input prices at the same time and the decreasing sales turnover mean pressure to find savings at the expense of the workforce. In other words, companies are under pressure to lay off their employees. Tax reductions therefore support businesses and help to maintain jobs and thus stabilise our labour market. The draft consists of three paragraphs; it is not a very complex draft. The first paragraph sets out changes to the rates of excise duties on fuels. The second paragraph sets out changes to VAT rates and extends the preferential rate of VAT to fuels. The third paragraph is the date of entry into force. Paragraph 1 (1) of the Bill reduces excise duties on petrol, diesel, gas and fuel oil. For all of these, the principle is very simple: the rates of excise duty will be reduced to the minimum rates set by the EU regulation. Paragraph 2 (1) and (2) of the draft provides for a new preferential rate of VAT of 5% instead of 9% and adds the fuels subject to the rate of excise duty to the list of goods subject to VAT. There's a very important couple of nuances here. First of all, we are fulfilling the promise that Ansip has not made so far. When VAT was temporarily increased to 9% in 2009, first by 5% and then by 18% to 20%, the promise was that if times were to improve, it would be brought down again. So far, times have not improved. But another very nice nuance is that the government has brought us the [proposal] to amend the VAT law, the VAT rate being reduced from 9% to 5% for the press. The press is also covered in our section, but it does not receive special treatment, but everyone else who is under this preferential rate will receive 5% instead of 9%. This means, among other things, that the Estonian state does not create a new tax corridor, where we have 20% VAT, 9% VAT and 5% VAT, but we have two tax corridors, one is 20% and the other is 5%. Just a little bit more of the effects. Reducing excise duty rates will have a positive impact on companies' activities, as it will be possible to reduce fuel prices at the expense of excise duties. The competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurs compared to the main trading partners will also improve, the livelihood of Estonian people and the relative purchasing power will improve. The impact of these tax changes or reductions is undoubtedly extensive. In Estonia, the cost of motor fuel, as well as home-made fuel, will be more favourable and the amount of people's compulsory expenditure will be significantly reduced. It also significantly reduces costs for businesses. The impact on production companies is particularly significant. We ourselves calculate that if we lower the rates of VAT and excise duties, this could lead to a reduction in inflation of at least 2% to 3%. In the case of 19% where we are now, this may seem a little small. However, when we carried out an impact analysis of this draft, we did not yet have the current inflation statistics, so the actual impact is probably significantly higher. Its impact on consumer groups is also very extensive, in essence affecting all people, all consumer groups, as well as entrepreneurship and production. I would also like to point out that the impact is also regional. This has a positive regional impact as transport costs are higher in sparsely populated areas. A significant part of the food industry and food production are also located in sparsely populated rural areas. If we also want to reverse or suppress the pressure on food prices, we can also achieve this through this. Of course, critics point out the possibility that these tax reductions will not actually reach the final price. Here, however, I would like to point out that the exact same story was given to us when we reduced excise duty on alcohol and diesel excise. In both cases, the tax reductions reached a final price, both of which achieved exactly that objective: border trade disappeared, tax receipts actually increased, domestic production of these specific sectors recovered and tax receipts recovered. It is very important here, of course, to keep in mind that the state should urge all those affected by this tax reduction to introduce this tax reduction into prices. Now a little bit of the impact on the state budget. The reduction of excise duties on fuel will certainly lead to a reduction in excise revenue, which is clear. The reduction of the preferential rate of VAT and the extension of the preferential rate will also reduce the revenue from the state budget. However, we can see clearly that we have already seen this by statistics and by the receipts from the state budget in the first quarters of this year, that the overall increase in prices has resulted in a significant increase in VAT receipts. The revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas has also increased significantly in the country's income. The initiator of the draft legislation estimates that excise revenue will decrease this year if we implement... Well, we can no longer implement it from April, as our original plan was, but we will probably be able to implement it either 30 June or at least half a year, that is, 1 July. In this case, the impact on the state budget for this year is estimated to be EUR 80 million less on the excise series and EUR 130 million next year. The reduction of VAT and the extension of the preferential rate is estimated to reduce revenue by EUR 70 million in 2022 and by EUR 120 million in 2023. However, the revenue from other VAT already exceeds the estimated receipts from the state budget in the current year by more than EUR 200 million. This trend we can clearly see from the current receipts. True, if the economy collapses completely in the coming months, the amount may not be that high, but it is clear from current trends that VAT will certainly be several hundred million more than was predicted when the budget was adopted. However, it can be seen even more clearly that the revenue from the sale of CO2 to the state budget exceeds EUR 300 million. This overcharge is also not planned in the state budget. Thus, the estimated over-charges in relation to the revenue planned for the budget are more than twice as high as the under-loss resulting from our tax reduction, and the tax reductions implemented in this draft therefore do not lead to a budget deficit. As a result, there is no need to change the state budget. But, of course, if there is any will, we can also make some adjustments in the state budget we are dealing with. I must, of course, conclude by saying that the life of forecasters has not been easy in recent years: the corona and now there are different influences, the effects of war. But our forecasters, whether they've been at the central bank or the Ministry of Finance, are still very, very boldly misplaced by these numbers, with hundreds of millions of dollars, have missed. So I think that the numbers that I have just put out here are no less serious than the forecasts of some institutions, rather they are more serious. But I'm gonna finish my introductory speech and I'll be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U232	Starts with Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U233	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. You briefly mentioned inflation. Well, we know that, for 10 to 12 years, all those who have printed their currency to money have been massively spinning money numbers on stock exchanges and elsewhere. How does this tax reduction, VAT and other tax reductions relate to its essentially triggered hyperinflation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U234	Yeah. Well, I'm sure it can't completely balance it. Yes, since 2008 and 2009, huge amounts of money have been printed. This money has largely gone to the financial markets and increased, let us say, the indebtedness of the world's private and public sectors compared to the 2009 economic crisis. More than six times the debt has increased compared to the time when there was a so-called debt crisis. So the debt pile is several times as big as it was when we were in the debt crisis. This, in turn, has led to very serious price increases in several areas, increases in the price of raw materials, increases in the price of real estate, as well as absurd increases in prices such as bitcoin, or in areas such as those we do not usually think about. But until the corona, this price increase was not felt by ordinary people in the case of ordinary goods. During the Coronary period, money printing was further increased, multiplied compared to the previous years, but the difference was that this money was not given to banks but was given directly to people. In Estonia, America and Europe, there were different schemes for supporting people who could not work, while the economy was in decline, with different schemes. This money quickly reached people and this money quickly reached the economy. It triggered inflation as we know it now on our skin. But it also triggers this inflation, which was inflation for the past ten years and which was hidden. So this thing is completely out of hand and getting worse, which is why it is quite clear that in all routes or in all areas where the state authorities are able to fight against this crazy price increase, the state must fight actively and intensively. One large part of the price increase now is the rise in fuel prices, the increase in electricity prices, the increase in gas prices. These price increases started much earlier when the war broke out and the Russians invaded Ukraine. Their root cause is mainly a systematic reduction in the production of greens, or fossil fuels, or, for example, a reduction in the production of nuclear power, which has caused a huge market deficit, underinvestment in these areas. That's where the price increase has gone. Of course, Russia's war against Ukraine will give it a powerful boost. But also, of course, we all understand this, the increase in fuel prices and also the increase in raw materials prices. The rise in fertiliser prices, for example, also reaches the rise in food prices with a delay of about one year. If we do nothing, then Estonia will again be the country that suffers the worst. If you look anywhere in Europe, wherever you look, to Spain, Germany, France, wherever you look, governments in all countries will get out of the skin, in order to mitigate the completely crazy price increase that has arisen. And, well, different schematics have different effects. Let's just say there's a very clear world-view nuance there. If there are left-wing power, they want to build these schemes in the same way, if there are, let's say, market-economy parties in power, then they solve these things in a slightly different way, but this total inaction, the total disregard that exists in Estonia with regard to the price shock of people and companies, I cannot see anywhere in Europe. Nowhere!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U235	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U236	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear waitress, Can you explain this crime, Martin? If the coalition proposes to lower the excise duty on special-purpose diesel, which is certainly a sensible idea, it is a sensible idea and it needs to be supported, but if the EKRE proposes to lower the excise duty on energy carriers, then suddenly it is some kind of measure that will in no way reach prices and that will make them even more expensive. If the coalition proposes to reduce the VAT on press publications from nine to five, it is a very sensible idea and it is supported when the EKRE proposes to reduce the VAT on products, then it is a question of how taxes are not played and that it does not produce any results. Do you have any idea how that thinking might work?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U237	I don't exactly see inside people's heads, but based on rhetoric, you can judge the ordinary liberal arrogance that everything we do is good, and everything others do is bad. There's no other argument I can identify. They're allowed everything, nothing's allowed to others, that's the bottom. But these arguments, of course, don't hold any water at all, do they? The same story about how the tax reduction does not reach the price: in our own example, Estonia's previous example of government did. It needed additional work, I had many meetings with both retailers and producers in Estonia, where they had to be told from the heart how the price must still reach the consumer. But it did. The fact is, he made it, he made it. It's just not serious. I support with two hands the two tax reductions that have been passed on by the government to the Riigikogu. I fully agree with the tax reduction on the specific fuel of farmers and with the reduction in the VAT rate. I am simply saying that, especially when it comes to this VAT reduction, it is not something that will help people in any way. It helps two large media houses, as understood. What are the real arguments back there, who will benefit, and what will be received in return, we will find out afterwards, and perhaps even a little intelligent person can predict. But it doesn't help people. These tax reductions we have here are exactly the ones that help people. So I hope we can still get them to the finish line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U238	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U239	Thank you. I would like to ask what was discussed here earlier, whether or not this fall will reach the price. I don't deny it will, but my question is, what do you think is the extent to which it will? Figuratively speaking, if, for example, EUR 1 were to be reduced by 95 excise duties on petrol, how many cents will it reach the consumer? And perhaps to put it in context: we take a family with a family car, probably in two years, their annual fuel consumption has increased by over EUR 1000. If your low rates of excise duty had already been in place all this time, would it have increased by EUR 1000, euros, tens of euros, hundreds of euros or thousands of euros? That's the question for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U240	Yes, these calculations can, of course, be made, some maybe speculative, but we have a good comparison. Poland reduced excise duties on fuel to a minimum and also reduced VAT on fuel. In Poland today, the price of 98 petrol is about 1.50, a few cents apart, 1.52 or something. We know that if we took off the bio-dilution, we could bring down another price, 15 cents or so. Then we'd talk, wouldn't we, at a price of 1,300, 1.35? We currently have prices of over 2 euros. I guess different people have different driving schedules, how much someone's driving, but if we stick to this literal price calculation, I'm talking about gasoline 95, it's possible, if we do everything we can, at today's world oil prices, to reach somewhere in 1.3 euros for a liter, if we do everything right. I think that this is a very big help compared to EUR 2. But it's not just fuel, we're talking about electricity. VAT has a very large share of electricity. We are talking about gas, 200,000 households in Estonia are heating with gas. We talk the same way about the tens of euros you save in one month, but in the case of larger consumers, in the case of large productions, we are talking maybe hundreds of thousands of euros. Estonia has one production company with a gas bill of over one million euros per month. If we take down some 15% or 20% or even more, with excise duty and VAT, then we are talking about a 20-to-30% fall in prices already. These are very specific amounts. On the other hand, if we appreciate what the money that has not been received in the state budget is when we talk about the amount of USD 260 to 300 million that we have not received each year, it will remain in the pockets of people and companies. It is certainly not distributed in such a way that everyone has an equal amount, it is distributed between production companies and people. Who drives petrol, who diesel, who heats electricity, who gas, but this overall, this aggregated impact on consumption is in this order of magnitude and it is not small money for Estonian consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U241	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Martin! The subject that Raimond raised is very interesting in itself. The people are watching us, and the people want to know how it will develop and how it will directly affect us. The principle is whether the Riigikogu supports or does not support a better life for the people. That's how it is in a broad sense. I would remind you that, when the EKRE was much cursed and much praised by the government, it was only recently, a few years ago, then the price of fuel at retail was less than the euro. Okay. You said it was EUR 2 now, and if you make a good effort, we could even reach EUR 1.3. Well, it shows that there's actually some extraneous factor at the price of fuel that we can't touch anymore. The question is, is this fuel price side factor, which increases the fuel price by another 0.3 euros, that it is 1.3, not less than the euro, as it was at the time of the EKRE, purely due to the fuel itself or the price of the oil barrel, or is there another factor that we cannot influence?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U243	Yeah, well, the main factor is the price of oil, yeah. In 2020, oil was significantly cheaper than today, I think half as cheap as it is now. Depends on what kind of time point we're going to. In the meantime, the oil barrel went to $27, but overall it was between 46 and 60, now it's about 100. So the price of oil is what we cannot influence. Estonia itself produces fuel, oil from oil shale, and sells it, so there is silver, gold and black gold in Estonia. We sell it. It was a topic for which I was terribly insulted by the Reform Party that we made an investment in the construction of a new oil plant in Ida-Viru County. Today it's a total Ka-Ching machine. This is how we make money, and actually we make our own fuel if we want to. We're basically selling it for export, but we're basically producing fuel oil. Estonia is also able to produce some gas itself; we are currently producing ewe gas from oil shale. But they're world markets, and we can't influence them. Taxes are still a key component. Regulation, that's the same bio-addition that's put in there to make the world's repairers feel better, that doesn't make anything better in the world, is another component. The third component is, of course, still. In fact, the state would still have to deal more forcefully with cartel agreements. Keeping cartel agreements under constant pressure will certainly make fuel more cheap by a few cents. I want to bring something out here. And then, when we did that diesel drop, the basic story was, isn't it? It won't help us if the price of oil is high, it won't help us. He doesn't help domestic consumers, but he helps any business that deals with exports. Because if the price of oil is the same in the world, the difference in the price of diesel or petrol in Estonia, Latvia and Finland is purely a result of tax policy. Purely tax policy. The fact that Finland is more expensive than we, that we are more expensive than Latvia, is a tax policy, the same is that there are regulations, biodiesels and other things. We're gonna have more, all right, fuel reserve component, a little bit more per litre. There's some sort of thing out there that ordinary people don't know at all. For example, the price will also be included if we put a legal obligation on gas stations to create an independent power supply. They make some kind of investment, they buy their generators. You gotta take the money from that investment somewhere and, of course, they're gonna take it out of the fuel tanker's pocket. But broadly speaking, the bulk is still the price of raw materials and added taxes. So if we can make these taxes cheaper than our neighbours, make fuel cheaper than our neighbours, then we will provide substantial support for our companies and our export capacity, our labour market and keep the Estonian economy competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U244	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U245	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Electricity and gas prices have risen by 70%, fuel prices by 44%, which has now also appeared in food prices, which have increased by 13.5%. The trouble didn't come quietly, it actually came with factory and steam whistles, it started in the fall. It was all foreshadowed by who wanted to see it. Eesti Pank did not want to see, was silent as a boar in the rye, did not perform its task. Today we are in a situation where electricity is twice as expensive as in Sweden. How long does our export capacity even last in the presence of such an unscrupulous government? When do we have our first companies shut down?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U246	The first companies are closing their doors. The same big producer that I was talking about earlier, whose gas bill is EUR 1 million per month, temporarily halted its production in the meantime. There are more and more of these companies. We read in the news how Estonian pig producers stop producing because this is not possible with their increased input prices. And where does this increase in food prices come from? A very large part of food production requires gas and electricity. You will not be able to raise this price so much because people will no longer buy your product, it is not possible. We've read all these news. Petrol sales in Estonia decreased, I don't remember, 13% butter. It's just people don't drive at that price anymore. Not because they don't want to, but because they don't give you gas on the Circle K. Just don't drive anymore. It's the same thing about groceries, isn't it? If you have a decrease in sales turnover and, at the same time, other costs increase, it is not possible [to produce], simply not possible. So the companies are closing the doors, it's coming to us. In fact, we are also seeing an increase in unemployment. In Estonia, unemployment climbs up quietly, but firmly. But what is the answer of our anti-people government to all of this? Slave workers. It doesn't directly concern this bill, right, but slave labor gives it a competitive advantage. Well, that's particularly vile for our people, who have to cope with these higher prices to keep their home warm or food on the table, but also receive a notice of lay-off, because it's half the price of Styopa. So this is the anti-people government we have today, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U247	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This bill also has a significant social impact. In fact, Estonia is negatively distinguished from other European countries in terms of the ratio of the minimum wage to the median wage. But here's my question. Here today, representatives of socialists and left-wing liberals have constantly confirmed that the country would like to go or should still come to the aid of poorer people, I repeat, to come to the aid, as if it were not the state of citizens, but that the country was composed of rulers and inferiors, and the rulers were doing a good deed and came to the aid of the subjects. How, then, is this from a conservative point of view? Is it the responsibility of the government to come to the aid of its citizens, or is it the responsibility of the state to provide the citizens with an economically and socially stable environment and a chance of a life worth living?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U249	Yeah. Well, I mentioned in passing before the introductory speech that in different countries, depending on whether the government has more left or right, these mechanisms are different. The more people on the left, the more they want to take it away from somewhere, the more they want to scramble it on people. It's an ancient left-hand modus operandi that first we'll collect money from all of you and then you'll be so grateful if you get anything back from it. After all, we have all read the news about how Eesti Energia, a 100% state-owned company, had record profit in the first quarter. A record profit! The price of this electricity really means that Estonian people are effectively taxed under cover. Lowering the price of electricity. If we had a real minister in the Ministry of Finance who would have taken the chairman of the board and the chairman of the board of directors to his desk and said, "Bring me a solution how the price goes down," or else I'm looking for new people, then we would not have had this increase in electricity prices in this way. In fact, on the contrary, we have the power of the state, the government politicians, in cooperation with the monopoly state companies, designed ways to heat up the price increase in order to milk the people. Let's look at the same Eesti Energia: how the price has gone so high in Estonia. Well, it's a little longer tour there, but there's been a lot of interaction. Firstly, Elering, also a 100% state-owned company, opens channels to sell the electricity produced in Estonia to the south as much as possible, where there is a constant production deficit in Estonia, and at the same time Eesti Energia daily during the heating period, during the winter period, produces a little less than there is demand on the market. A little less. If market demand is 1500 megawatts, they produce 1300 if market demand is 1600, they produce 1400. It doesn't fall behind the production capacity, but for some reason it produces less. The result is record prices, because this whole stock exchange system is not a stock exchange system, it's a bluff. If we had a normal government, he'd do everything he could to put these schemes back on, put them back on for price suppression. But we don't. We're giggling quietly in the corner, that's a hell of a return. The profit of Eesti Energia, I offer, will be a few hundred million by the end of the year. We are talking here about the budgetary impact of these tax reductions, 130 million maybe. This is less than the amount of dividends from the state of Estonia, 100% of the dividends from the state-owned company will be withdrawn next year. It's grotesque. But, yes, I totally agree with that part, that instead of giving people subsidies and essentially putting them up for the government's mercy and generosity for the money that has been taken from them before, the money must first be left to the people. This means lowering the price of goods at the same crazy price increases and reducing the tax charge on them. It is essentially a right-hand and essentially a conservative solution. People in a normal country go to work, and the money they get for going to work is self-sufficient, so they don't have to get bread with strings all the time, so what I'm not buying today and tomorrow and next week, because otherwise there's just nothing for a week before payday. We would like to solve it differently, bring down prices and slow down this price rally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U250	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In today's Question Time, Kaja Kallas told us how they are trying to do all sorts of things to ease the price increase, but unfortunately, it cannot be done, because many smart books and textbooks say that they, the government, cannot in any way alleviate inflation. In return, I asked the Prime Minister why we are not going this way, as Poland went, which in December reduced state taxes. Kaja Kallas said he had all the tables here and so on. I don't know, I didn't see these tables, but I have one single table: 19% inflation is the highest in Estonia, the highest in the European Union. Here's the question: if perhaps in a few weeks you will be Prime Minister, what are the first steps you will take to reduce the price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U252	Thank you. Yeah, next week or next year, sometime I will be, yeah. But I do not agree with the argument that there is no way the government can mitigate the price increase. Firstly, because the government was very successful in creating price increases. The Estonian government has been an active accomplice to the fact that Estonia is the country with the highest price increase in Europe. The central banks are not directly subject to the government, but there is no point in telling themselves here in a fairy tale that the European Central Bank is an independent central bank that drives some kind of independent monetary policy. The European Central Bank (ECB) has been violating the Treaties and its mandate for a number of years now and has been literally monitoring national debts, perhaps creating various interesting schemes through which money can be given to countries in constant budget deficits. This is one of the important reasons for this inflation. It is not the case that public authority, be it the government or the central bank, cannot do anything. They've been able to do a lot to screw things up, and now, if you do these things the other way around, you can get them back on the line. This isn't serious. I would say to the relatively dull point of the Prime Minister that in fact, here is the wisdom of the old people, that whoever wants to find a way who doesn't want to find an excuse. We see that we have a government today that only finds excuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U253	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Martin, please, tell me! You've seen the Ministry inside, too. It's very difficult for me to understand. I know that Latvia reduced VAT on locally grown fruit and vegetables to 5%. We, too, have once applied for this. They said it wouldn't work. The Latvian data show that the consumption of fruit and vegetable products increased by 10%, the growth area increased by 8.5%, the turnover of fruit and vegetable products increased by 16% across the country, the informal economy decreased by 20%, the number of taxable persons in the sector increased by 9%, turnover increased by 9%, the value of locally produced fruit and vegetable products increased by 45%, the average number of workers in the fruit and vegetables sector increased by 6%. These are data from the Latvian Ministry of Agriculture. Here's my question. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, I'm gonna... Do we not see the whole or do we not want to analyze, or what is the purpose? I know we were visited in Latvia by these data...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U255	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U256	... but only the consumer price was examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U257	In this sense, there is an ideological cramp, a very clear ideological cramp: no issue will be solved by tax reduction, tax reduction will never be helpful, it is only a pity, because there will be no tax in the state budget. First of all, I say that Latvia's experience also shows what our experience showed. A tax reduction does not mean that one person will receive less tax. I'm sure he's going through some kind of downfall at first, but in some perspective, the tax receipts are starting to improve. That's what we saw with alcohol, that's what we saw with diesel, that's what the Latvians saw with food. In Latvia, one thing the Latvians fought against was the shadow economy. The second thing they fought for was the vitality of the sector. Indeed, one argument was plucked out of this whole big picture, a scarecrow was created, and it started to frighten others. But it didn't significantly reduce the prices. If he did not have to reduce prices significantly, there were a number of other useful things that helped the Latvian economy, which helped the rural areas in Latvia, helped to pay people's wages there, helped companies to survive. If someone thinks it's some sort of irrelevant, extraneous, accompanying phenomenon, you might think so. If the receipt of the state budget is the most important problem in the functioning of the whole country that you are dealing with, then employment or regional development and all these other things are not interested. We're interested. We are interested in employment, we are interested in people's livelihoods, we are interested in people's purchasing power, we are interested in domestic production progressing and being competitive. So, in the end, the Latvians did not lose money because [production] came out of the shadow economy because the sector became stronger. As a result, they actually improved their tax receipts. So it's so limited, so stupid, so short-sighted, living in some sort of column in Excel's table. Of course, I've seen the inside of this house. Excel's charts are loved there. In some area of their own, they are able to shake the numbers very accurately or to say that this is happening or is not going to happen. But what this wider effect is, it just doesn't care. There must be very clearly political leadership here, which says that listen, friends, I have 6,000 inhabitants on Mustamäe, half of whom live in an apartment with a gas boiler house. In addition to what is the Excel table for the next two years on the receipt of gas excise duties, other metrics should also be considered. I have to report this to these people. Here, the political mandate that we have received in our elections must actually be established, if necessary, so that has been established. So you listen to the arguments, nod and do what you have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U258	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U259	Thank you. I'm interested in what happens to separating the effects of war and other influences. The Prime Minister talks about war all the time, they say it's set prices. But in my opinion, the effect of the war doesn't know when the economy is going to get any worse. Does the inflation that has recently been thrown into our face here have as many effects of war as is advertised? Or is it the result of some previous failure? Would it really be possible to lower prices by avoiding these past mistakes and not by avoiding external effects? What is the relationship between war and other influences?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U260	The effects of war have certainly not yet arrived, at least not in a significant part. The most serious effects will certainly be on food prices. I have hair on my head when I see that the Estonian government today has done nothing to prevent us from exporting ourselves completely to hunger by autumn. The prices are high. Farmers are, of course, pleased about this. For example, the grain market is international. If we do not make any very clear decisions on the part of the state here that Estonia must have its own crop stock in any case, then we may at one point be in a situation where Estonia no longer has bread and bread. I don't see anywhere to even think about it. In particular, food production has an impact, I guess, still with about a year's reference. We're gonna see it next year, maybe next spring or late autumn. The impact of fuel prices is more immediate. Oil prices react very quickly to political and geopolitical events. But the thing that the government should have done six months ago, last autumn, is to clear the price of electricity. Here the Russian war has nothing to do with anything, because we produce our electricity ourselves, we produce our own raw materials on the ground. The price of raw materials has not changed, no other input prices have changed, the price of CO2 has only changed and this price of CO2 is, in principle, speculation taken from the ceiling. This should be taken into account in the price of electricity at present. There are opportunities here too. I know what the critics are saying, that then we will go against some European rules. No, I'm not. Here, too, there are ways to make this price of CO2 neutralized in such a way that we do not go against European rules. But ultimately, if we go, let's go. Coping with our own people is more important than European rules. The biggest parts of the price increase in Estonia are electricity price increases, fuel price increases and gas price increases. But there's one more thing I don't think people understand yet. Last week the Federal Reserve of America raised interest by 0.5%. The most rugged interest increase since, I don't remember, in 2003 or 2002, 20 years. The European Central Bank is slowing down on this, but it has no access. Sooner or later, the European Central Bank will also be raising. This has an impact on Estonian people's car leases, apartment payments, but also on corporate loan portfolios. People don't even know what's coming out of there. All the more so, everything is not under the control of politicians and not under the control of the Estonian Government, but everything that can be done should be done. That's part of it. Lowering electricity prices is another part of it. Ensuring our own security of supply is a third part of this. It is also probably necessary to take into account the possibility that we will have more people who simply need to be supported by income support, which is another part of it. But today's government, well, the extra budget that was brought to us here, that's a joke. The size of the 800 million budget and the share of income support is 31 million, or 3.9%. Everything else goes somewhere, wartime budget goes 1.9% to military affairs. That's an incredible bluff we're dealing with here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U261	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U262	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, the great drought is also coming from looking at Europe and the world, but to that end. The ruler is concerned that the reduction of excise duties will not save, and the ruler is concerned about where to get even more money to help Ukraine. Can you say, of course, these humps and these downfalls aren't a linear thing, but how do you appease the ruler? Moreover, with a similar proposal, not only have we come out, but also Jüri Ratas and Fatherland and so on. But how can we appease the ruler?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U263	I am simply saying that our proposal is more comprehensive. After all, the government also came here with two tax changes, VAT and special diesel changes. There is also a proposal for excise duties on fuel in the Fatherland. We have the most comprehensive, the most comprehensive, everything is inside. All the energy carriers are inside, plus the energy carriers' VAT cut is inside. This will have the most cumulative effect. It certainly lowers prices or at least slows down the price increase. I am not offering assistance to today's government in the sense that I have no hope that it will ever be possible for this government to become sensible. I will continue to work to replace today's government as soon as possible with a government that is not anti-popular. Our offer of help is on the table right now. That is our offer of assistance, that we are doing excise duties on energy carriers, that we are doing VAT reductions on these same energy carriers covered by excise duties and that we are helping our people. These reductions in tax receipts that come into the state budget with these cuts in excise duty are still lower than the VAT overrun and where there is an over-charge from the sale of the CO2 quota. We could do much more financially. But then we should go to that 20% VAT rate. That's probably where we're talking about hundreds of millions already, depending on what the percentage is. I'm guessing some 700 million if we wanted to cut VAT to 15%, for example. But we were brought here with a negative budget of EUR 800 million, where the people of Estonia are helped with 30 million. That's a mockery. So everything is done wrong, all the way backwards and wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U264	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U265	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Indeed, the rise in the price of electricity and gas is what hits our consumers and our companies off, hitting our entire economy. However, Section 69 of the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Tax Act provides an opportunity to apply for exemption from excise duty for e-intensive companies and companies with intensive gas consumption. Estonian Cell, for example, isn't it, who gives added value to our economy, or, for example, Adven gas boiler houses that heat half the city of Tallinn. I ask you, if you were Prime Minister in two weeks' time or next winter, would you consider this possibility of coming this way to help our businesses, our economy, our consumers to deal with all these crises?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U266	Yeah. By the way, when we were in the government, we did a preferential rate for these energy companies instead of exempting them from it, but we did a preferential rate. We had a working group with the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Economic Affairs where we worked to further reduce the tax burden on energy intensive companies and, for example, not only the tax burden, but also network charges, because network charges are actually an even greater problem for these electrointensive or energy intensive companies, precisely from the angle that Estonia would have an advantage or competitive advantage in large production or production, which is substantial. There was a perfectly clear plan on the table to make such benefits that if you come to Estonia with a large investment, the dispute was over how big it is and how to measure it, then you will not pay any taxes for any years, five years, three years or ten years, you will be exempt from them. That's the plan we set up. Today's government, of course, has not moved on with these plans. But it was a so-called forward-looking plan that companies that produce, offer jobs, high-wage jobs, high-value-added jobs and consume, by the way, our energy. The higher the consumption, the lower the unit price. We will benefit if we have large consumers, because it will lower the unit price. We didn't finish the job, so we'll get back to work sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U267	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U268	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here the Latvians have come before us again. Now the Latvians have given up bio-addition. To be honest, if bio-addition were to be abandoned, the win would be even greater than if excise duties were to be reduced. The Fatherland clearly supports these proposals. With you two years ago in government, we made this decision, and thanks to this, last year's economic growth was the largest growth in Europe that today's government is trying to put as a favor its own. Today's news is that the first quarter was over 16% better than projected. But I'm asking what to do with Elering. You were talking about Eesti Energia earlier. Eesti Energia has profit thanks to Elering. Elering's taken 180 million from us. Eesti Energia has made a profit because it has sold most of Latvia. But this price is also on the Estonian market, thanks to Elering, the price of electricity in Estonia is twice as high as in Finland. What can I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U269	Elering was pretty tricky, didn't he, didn't he? With this investment, it should have been that we first of all make the electric pipeline wider towards Finland, where cheaper electricity comes from and where base production is stable thanks to nuclear power. Once we have done this, we can continue to make a larger pipe towards Latvia, where there is a constant production deficit and the price is higher, Lithuania is even more. Taavi Veskimägi did the opposite. Of course, Eesti Energia or all Estonian energy producers will benefit from this because the market opened up to them at a more expensive price, which also allowed Estonia to take higher prices from Estonian consumers. At the same time, there will be no cheaper price from Finland, okay? It was supercool, and all this was done for our own money, made electricity more expensive for us. I'm not much of a stutter or pussy here: I think Elering's leadership should be replaced immediately and quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U270	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Good Martin! It's difficult for me to understand this Kafka world. There is such an attitude that the cost of living is rising, people's survival is deteriorating, while we hear that the country has no money, the government has no money. This is truly Kafkalik, for where does it come from to realize that the country has money? This is all the people's money that the country should temporarily use for the benefit of all of us. Now it's a really bad thing about energy prices. It's a direct increase in the cost of living, but it's also an indirect boost. At the same time, there is also a very serious unethical situation here: a strategic function at the expense of which one company makes a profit and worsens the lives of everyone. What if we cut it out with one blow, eradicate Eesti Energia and do NGO Eesti Energia? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U272	Yeah, by the way, the NGO business is very profitable. The Estonian state budget goes to non-profit institutions and foundations in the order of 250 million a year and no one understands exactly, goes like a molehole. Now, speaking of kafkaism. I don't understand either. What I do not understand is that Estonia is the country with the highest price increase in Europe, with the most expensive electricity in Europe, more or less. People are no longer coming out, no pensioners or ordinary earners are no longer coming out. Unemployment is increasing. The war drum doesn't work every day. And the party that offers all this is going to climb up every week among the people. Well, our party doesn't complain about this percentage either, but you just look at it and you think you want to know that there has to be a border somewhere, how much of Estonia's people are Masochists. Well, it's probably 33% now. There's still room for growth, I know. The refs have gone to 36. But I'm not sure it's possible for these people to get anywhere with any arguments at all. Anyone who likes to be hurt only screams that more and more, give it more. We speak on behalf of other people, we speak on behalf of those who don't like to be hurt, that money is taken away from them, and then they're grinned in the face. By the way, concerning the profit of Eesti Energia. When I became a minister, there was another mini-crisis on the table. At that time, electricity prices were down, Eesti Energia planned to close down two oil shales and bring together 1000.1500 people. As a result, Estonia's power generation capacity would have fallen about half of what our consumption is. I said, "Hey, you can't do that, it's a strategic question, it's an energy security issue, it's a question of social stability in Ida-Viru County." There are so many things that make it impossible for us to do this, we need to find a solution. In addition, Eesti Energia said that yes, of course, the price of the solution is a decreasing dividend. Eesti Energia received a dividend of 50 million euros for years. To be honest, 5 million here and here in this dividend... If we hadn't made that decision at the time, if I had started shaking my hands, that pagan, 5 million still, oh-oh-oh-oh, we would have been in the dark in winter, now Eesti Energia would not have been able to make record profits, because half of the production capacity would have been ironed. I am not talking about social tensions in Ida-Virumaa at all, am I, especially in the light of the changed security situation. But that's the way it was thinking, well, listen, today we need to save 5 million, that's why we can sacrifice tens of millions of profits in the future, jobs, tax receipts, social stability, that we even have lights on. This is the view of the Excel table that Merry Aart was talking about earlier, that we only care about this one row and there's only this middle cell. We, at least in this hall, mustn't think like that. What did the French do? The French President, of course, had an election coming up, ordered a huge company producing nuclear energy belonging to the French State, ordered the sale of electricity at a fixed price, below the cost of production. To this, poor nuclear plant owners said 8 billion losses by the end of the year. They said there'd be 8 billion losses, but people have cheaper electricity. A lot cheaper than ours, a lot cheaper than ours. And that doesn't mean that this company needs recapitalisation because it doesn't make a loss of 8 billion every year, it's in a profit of several billion every year. Now, if you have to make a loss one year, well, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U273	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U274	Thank you. Otherwise, the questions will only come from the right side of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U275	Come on, help me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U276	I'll ask you in the meantime. You're talking about what the government should do here. But actually, we all know that you are having talks with Mr. Seeder and Mr. Ratas to form a new government. I wanted to ask how these negotiations are going, what the new government's excise policy will be, maybe you have agreed more broadly on tax policy. I have heard that as your minister of finance this time, you do not wish to participate in the work of the government, but you have asked for the position of the Minister of Defence, and I have also heard that I think Mrs Toom of Europe will be the Minister of Culture of this government. Perhaps you will comment more broadly on what is the tax policy programme of this new government? Are you and Mrs. Toomi going to lower those excises?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U277	Thank you, Raimond! I'm glad you're here to help! I could, of course, say right away that this is not the subject of this bill. But I'm still gonna help you out a little bit. I categorically disprove that some negotiations are under way to form a government. That is absolutely not true. Hasn't been in a while, hasn't been spoken for months. Nor can we say in any way that there are any ministerial seats shared. No, it's not. It's just not true. There's been a lot of speculation, and different people have made very interesting theories spin. I think that a large part of them come from another department of government who wants to create a kind of community mass and thereby intimidate the necessary power centers. That's the life we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U278	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U279	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Martin! How would you assess the cumulative effect of putting together the increase in the price of electricity, the price of petrol and diesel and gas, and the price of food and food [increases] and adding rising interest rates, what could be the effect of this combination on the Estonian people in one year or two? What would your prognosis look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U280	Thank you. Well, speaking in general: if we do not do something, the price increase will continue anyway. I would like to nab all the so-called experts here, who are not really experts, but political gossipers, who have been telling us for many years how the risk of inflation is transitory. That's because there was a corona and in the meantime the economy stood and the base prices went down, that's all one statistical illusion anyway, don't believe at all, there's no price increase and there's no coming. Well, actually, right from the beginning, you could say that there is no transitory price increase or inflation here. This is the very serious inflation that we have suffered, with very serious main causes or with basic causes. This inflation has already started to take root in the economic system. Inflation is generating new inflation and, above all, inflation following monetary policy, as well as fiscal policy decisions, which started to roll over last year, new monetary policy decisions have now come up, i.e. the same increases in interest rates and the effects of war, which have the most direct and powerful impact on the energy sector and the food sector. It's the same forced charges that I told you about for the introduction. I would say that neither can you be very optimistic in the coming years anywhere in the world, regardless of whether you have a right-wing or a left-wing government or a war princess or a prince of peace. The decline in living is predictable everywhere; the decline in purchasing power is predictable everywhere. The key issue is how governments mitigate it and how much they can alleviate it. The hard times are coming, and the sooner you get stuck in inflation, the easier it is to contain it, the more you can control inflation, the easier it will be to repress it. And we don't do anything. Nothing's going to be done! That's what I think is most criminal right now. We talked in the fall about it coming. Nothing was done. In the winter we talked about it getting worse. Nothing was done. Now we're gonna talk about what's coming again in six months, a year. I do not agree at all that this is a minor measure. If we look at the effects of these excise duties, we will reduce excise duty by a third in the middle. If we look at the impact of VAT, we will reduce even more. They still account for a large part of this final price. It's not marginal, a few cents we're talking about. But we know that, say, the average Estonian family has grown by 500 euros per month in recent months alone. In the case of bringing down these compulsory expenditures, we are still talking about hundreds of euros per month, thousands of euros per year, which are more in the hands of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U281	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We now have to solve the problem that today's government and Elering have created. One option is to repair one of the three cables, on the Latvian side, to solve a lot. Finland is currently buying electricity from Russia, selling and earning money through Estonia. But the next question on VAT and excise duty is now gas. We know that the two private operators who are currently trying to establish a gas terminal, this mooring point, withdrew their cooperation with Elering. The State did offer this area along with the supply department, as we say, 213 million, of which no cents are needed, private operators are willing to do anything. Is this the place where we have to come here to lower excise duty and VAT again, because one company is colding us? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U283	Yeah. The point of the repairs is very important. In the autumn, when we had record prices, one of the reasons was that Auvere was scheduled to be repaired or one of the boilers was, I don't remember. I think it was Auvere, but I might be wrong with the boiler. To be honest, I can't imagine that we can have a minister, or we can have a chairman of the Council who doesn't ask in September that listen, on the horizon you can see that the price shock is coming, please tell me, if we have nothing planned to repair at the time of the greatest consumption. This should have been asked at the beginning of September or August and said that when it is planned, forget your planned repairs, they cannot be done during the winter period, postpone them. We've seen Elering manipulate prices, stock market prices all the time, Estlink 1 and Estlink 2, but they're planned for repair, but they're in unplanned repair. From there, it's a pipe with cheap electricity coming down all the time. Yeah, I'd say I'd do the other way around. I'd put a repair, a planned repair of that pipe that raises the price, and hold off the pipe that lowers the price. There are many aspects here. As far as LNG is concerned, one of the reasons why I am extremely critical of the extra budget is that it is being advertised as a budget for helping people, as a budget for helping people, that 3.9% of this amount and the war budget, but national defence is being financed for 1.9% of the total budget. Where's the money going? Goes to these same monopoly state companies for financing operations. This is crazy. All in all, these sums are bigger, yes, but for example, only Elering is just trying to give 100 million for nothing. These are companies that are currently profiting with hundreds of millions and then are given more money by the state and said that this is how we help the people of Estonia to cope with high energy prices. Well, it's so grotesque that if you didn't, you wouldn't. Such things should simply not be included in the supplementary budget. Not to mention that we actually have a quay with LNG absorption capacity, there is, of course, still some adjustments to be made and there is this gas pipeline not being built, but basically there is a quay. We do not need these investments at all in this way and, in any case, the taxpayer does not need to make these investments in this way. That's where I miss [the investigative press]. But we understand why we do not have such a press, this special rate of VAT thing has solved this problem. Here I really miss the investigative press, the independent press that would dismantle the schemes with this additional budget under the name of LNG investments. It's pretty disgusting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U284	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U285	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I just went through the news and noticed that Joe Biden announced that he was going to fight the price increase. Since we know that we actually have a liberal democratic government in power as a result of a coup d'état, one could say, such a branch in Washington, do you think that, in the context of a great and noble attempt to save liberal democracy, our government will suddenly be ordered to start fighting against price increases with all its means?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U286	Thank you. Well, if I'm following these propaganda urges or points of talk that our government and our loyal media are telling us about anything, either the war in Ukraine or energy prices or the climate change revolution, they're quite one of the same things as the American left-wing understanding, the points of talk and the propaganda revolutions about world affairs, be it the war in Ukraine or the prices of energy. Joe Biden, by the way... Okay, Joe Biden isn't making anything up anymore, but his assistants figured out the expression "Putin's price increase," "Putin's fuel price increase." Went by a week and imagine ours started saying that, too, about Putin's price increase. I am so sorry that we do not have any more original political rhetoric in Estonia on the left or liberals, but it is what it is. We can predict, we have a glass ball to look at the future. It was possible to look at it on the gay issue, it was possible to look at it on immigration, it is possible to look at it on any other subject, green. All the madness that arises in the heads of the American left and in the media columns will, in time, reach us as well. So when Joe starts talking about him fighting the price increase, I think in the next Question Time we'll hear how they fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U287	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U288	Good manager! Dear waitress, The Ruler is really concerned that although excise duties make up 95 per cent of petrol right here, 51.5%, half of it, and so on, lowering it does not have an effect. But since the ruler's instructions are to send our bill to the trash, what does that really mean? Let's think of ourselves somewhere in early October, November or December, if the white ship is already at the mouth of Bay of Bay of Bay of Bay, but it probably isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U289	I'm not saying I'm gonna eat my hat, but I'm still very, very, very, very pleasantly surprised when the LNG capacity in Estonia arises within this year's number. In my opinion, reform parties have been getting out of the skin for more than ten years, so that Estonia does not have LNG capacity, so that Estonia is trapped on the end of the Russian gas pipeline. Everything that's happening now with Elering, Alexela and all these quays and things is, in my opinion, a ritual dance to screw up the alternative gas sources instead of the Russian tube this time. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe somewhere there's been a brightening and exciting process, but the pattern still confirms to me that there's not going to be any LNG, not under this government. However, the cart can remove several hundred million from the state budget, or taxpayers' pockets, to do so. This will definitely happen if this budget goes through.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U290	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U291	Thank you. Well, that's great, Martin, listening to your simple solutions and elegant mathematics, which is more like political mathematics, but what if real mathematics isn't going to work? Everything seems very simple and clear. But I'm gonna give you a chance to show you that you can explain something mathematical and make it clear to me. Last year, you went around and told me, as one of several here, that the money was free. As a result of the second pension pillar being released, some EUR 2 billion came into circulation. Given the size of the Estonian state budget, about 20% more came. To what extent has this 2 billion affected our inflation, can you guess or predict? I haven't seen any calculations anywhere. I assume you don't want to discuss this because it's a little bit your fault. But maybe you can still say, and don't tell me it's 0, it's not, you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U292	No, no, I'm definitely not saying that's 0. I'd say we have simple solutions, there's genius in simplicity. If you finally came back to earth in your arrogance, at least you'd learn better than yourself. But you won't learn because your arrogance never ends. I'm not arguing. It is about the size of money that was taken out of the pension pillars, as you have just said, that, after all, has reached the Estonian economy on a very large scale. In particular, he has gone to two places. Now pay attention. First, in real estate, real estate prices have made a real leap in Estonia and in Estonia the increase in real estate prices started earlier. But secondly, these savage tax surpluses that we have here now, this money has returned to the state budget, a very large part of it has returned to the state budget. Where he certainly had no effect, the price of electricity was. The possibility that the pension pillar money could increase the price of electricity or gas or the price of oil is totally excluded. At least I imagine that as a political mathematician as you are, you won't come here to sell us that mathematics. The price of electricity, the price of gas, the price of fuel, the release of second pillar money could not have been affected in any way. Other prices, especially property prices, certainly affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U293	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U294	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You also used the expression that difficult times are coming. In fact, we all, the whole Estonian people, feel it with our belly skin. You offer solutions, while our Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has used the same expression repeatedly in Question Time, but he does not offer solutions. He's using it somehow to cry, so, oh, feel sorry for the poor thing that I have to rule in difficult times. Here today, too, this side of your little fist was swinging and screaming about what's wrong with you guys, but that's what I'm supposed to answer. I would ask you that you have always talked about tax cuts in terms of solutions, but some European countries have used price caps for the prices of a broad population. If you were the Prime Minister, would you take this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U295	Yes, I say that, especially with regard to electricity prices, I believe that this solution needs to be adopted as a matter of urgency. The price of electricity. I say once again: 100% Estonian state-owned company, practically market monopoly. I don't know, 90-80% of Estonia's electricity consumption comes from there. Domestic raw material. I know what the cost of their production is, I know. It's not 30, 40, 50 or 200 euros. It's around EUR 20, depending on which boiler we're talking about and what fuel it uses, whether it mixes with another thing or only with oil shale and so on. It stays in that area. The price is, of course, expensive for the CO quota, taxes and dividend, which is in principle also a special levy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, By the way, we're being multiplied by food and food and waking up before sleep and in the morning that we live in wartime. Neither the prices regulated by the State during the war are impossible things, if necessary, fuel prices should also be regulated nationally. We all also know that fuel dealers have a very, very high profit margin in between. It's not like the price that's on the post is because they're nibin-nabin coming out with that buy-in price. It's not like that. It's very well earned from it. So when it's hard times, when it's wartime, it is. Once again, this is one piece, the reduction of these taxes is one piece, it is an important piece, an effective piece. But it is not the only piece, the government should, all ministers should sit from morning to evening, propose solutions and start implementing them. Instead, we're just told how we can't. We can. And I would say of Kaja Kallas's reign in difficult times: no, he doesn't have to rule, and no one tells him to do it. I don't even think anyone's asking him. If he doesn't make it, there are people who can definitely do better than him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U296	We ran out of questions. Now it is time to listen to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U297	Honourable waitress! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! If I were to speak on behalf of the Commission, I would say that we have just heard about the Communist Manifesto about how the state can do everything, how it ensures prosperity, how it sets prices, how everything is in the hands of the country, and who does not agree with it, is a branch in Washington. I've heard clues about the left and right. I guess it was taking a position, but it's not even worth mentioning here. I am a representative of the Commission. Thank you. So, the Commission does not see things like this in general, that the state is a primary source of prosperity, a donor of money and a price-setter, and that it is somehow a dictator of the United States. In general, the Commission sees finance as collecting taxes, not to ensure the individual well-being of everyone, but to finance common citizens' affairs. These common things, of course, include the creation of structures that guarantee free competition and adequate supply in the market. It is also part of helping those who are really in trouble, but it does not belong to being paid for, given up taxes, and then trying to create universal prosperity for everyone. The Commission certainly does not think that it is the party that can carry out impact assessments itself and say that we think we do. No, the party is not "we ourselves" in society, in a free society it is not the one who says that inflation is in our hands and a few or three percent and even more we are now reducing it. There are some further arguments that the majority of the Commission certainly disagree with. "This bill does not create a budget deficit. "Can't be created, the budget deficit is already heavy, the magnitude is 4% of GDP in the face of crises. However, we do have data that the annual deficit increase will have an impact of 100 million. This information is in the government document. If anyone wants, I can specify this table, it's not just going to be read out here. We don't think we're making predictions, and then we'll say everything's been missed if it doesn't happen. We certainly do not agree with the Commission that if the right party is in power, prices will fall, and if there is a wrong party, prices will rise. It still depends on political choices and external circumstances. The fall in prices during the pandemic was certainly not a service of the Minister of Finance; his actions were still aimed at increasing prices, but the pandemic was a dominant factor. The supply difficulties that arose at the time and the fall in demand were the ones that undercut prices. "Early Difficulty" may be an inaccurate word, but basically the demand went down because there were restrictions, couldn't demand, couldn't buy, couldn't consume. After the rise in prices, the price increase still had the assumption that these restrictions had withdrawn, inflation started to accelerate and, of course, it got in when Putin started shutting down the gas screens with the deployment of troops to the Ukrainian border, with the deployment of new troops. So I don't think as capable as a man behind my back that he could have done a lot of damage. Of his policy options, on which he said they would affect inflation, it really occurred to me that, on this point, I think my colleague has already asked that this early payout certainly increases inflation is one of those internal factors. The budget deficit created at a time of good economic growth, which he himself has welcomed in every way, has also been able to create it, certainly increases inflation, i.e. inflation. These are the policy options. But I don't think he could have been the reason to make a trade deficit. The Commission in general thinks that this is too cheap a goal set, when I try here to generalise our various debates, that things must be cheap. No, that is not an end in itself. This is why excise duties are used, for example, to increase the price of goods with harmful side effects. In turn, money collected from it is essential to alleviate pain for the weaker and investment in social terms. But the claim that we are ensuring prosperity by abolishing consumption taxes is a felt, and we are also ensuring a fall in prices. There is a direct link that if we reduce consumption taxes, we will stimulate demand. In this sense, it is not a linear effect towards a fall in prices. Statistical comparisons show that those who have reduced consumption taxes will not achieve any lasting fall in prices, but will be a temporary decrease in prices, which will then be smoothed out, and the trend will recover. The people of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have seen much of this. As far as energy is concerned, what is said about it is that, in the case of energy prices, the price increase is one clear reason that supply is too low for various reasons. The longer view is that investments were not made in Europe at the right time, but the second [cause] is still that we are gradually abandoning Russian energy carriers. This deficit-induced inflation cannot in any way be controlled by the fact that we are stimulating demand. No, we still have to increase the offer if the price increase is due to it. Eesti Pank has tried to explain this to us. It is a pity that the rapporteur is not in contact with the finances, does not know the reasons, and makes up his own impact analyses and forecasts and makes very loose assessments here. So, yes, the state needs taxes to help the weaker. But if he starts losing taxes, it's not enough that he's left less money for investments, for investment grants, he's also going to support those who can consume more. It is the devil in reducing consumption taxes that this victory is distributed to those who already have and who do not really need aid. This is the general rule and has been the case so far with policy analyses. But, of course, here we heard all sorts of fairy tales that didn't go through in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The evaluation of this draft was expressed in the result of the vote: we discussed it and decided not to finish the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U298	Now you can ask questions. But there are no questions. Thank you. Then I'll open the negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U299	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have this situation that, six months ago, when all kinds of weird decisions, discriminatory decisions, disparaging decisions and steps were justified by the fact that we have the Corona, even more dramatically, that we have a war against the Corona, we now have a war, we have bombs exploding in Estonia, we are blowing bridges, tanks burning on the roads, the bodies are on the ground. We have a war. Come on, that's absurd! That's absurd. We don't have a war. There has been a war in Europe, but wars, dear friends, have been a great deal in recent decades: the Middle East, Iraq, Syria. The fierce wars went on, the wars lasted for years in Afghanistan. Somehow these wars did not cause us such price increases. For some reason, these wars did not justify the fact that we have unbuilt four-line highways and Saaremaa fixed connection to this day, it was not justified to take away the money of children's interest groups and so on and so forth and so forth and so forth. There was no justification for the need for an additional budget, which goes to waste, where very clearly corrupt lines have been built up. The most visible thing is, of course, that suddenly the Reform Party forgot that VAT distinctions are unacceptable and Satanic. For the press, we will nip the VAT exemption nine months before the elections. If we open the Estonian Express today, we can already see how the court media has reacted to the pangyric stories and the defamatory stories of competitors. It's a corrupt government that doesn't care about the people. I met a college friend today who said to me, "Do you know how big a pension I have? My pension is 366 euros. " Hello! 366 euros! And that's what he's got to do: the price of electricity, the payment for all utilities, the purchase of food, the payment for transport. But how is that possible? Of course it's possible. Of course, it is possible, I have experienced that in extreme circumstances, a person really needs very little to survive. But is this also a decent life, and is this the life that must be in Estonia, I can't tell you, a few hundred thousand people have a daily norm, a daily reality, to cope with the most crappy conditions of pennies? I guess that wasn't the goal when we broke up with the Soviet Union. This must not have been the goal if we have built up the Estonian state. In this regard, I would like to say that all this abracadabra we heard as a summary of the Commission's discussions does not cost a red cent either. It doesn't take into account the hundreds of thousands of people who are crippled day by day and counting their last vows. It's a shame! It is a shame that we have hundreds of thousands of people in the 30th year of independence who live like this and are told that they are out of the question... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U300	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U301	...that we're going to lower some kind of tax. But why is it out of the question? There is no real justification. Why is it out of the question, this real argument simply does not exist. What's the government's job? It is the task of the government to ensure that the state remains independent, that the state has considerable disincentives in the form of defence capabilities, that the state has a credible internal security mechanism and that its citizens can cope with their lives. This is why we sit here together, by the way, in the Riigikogu and adopt laws. When it's hard times... But, by the way, the most difficult times are yet to come, because the World Bank, WHO, the World Food Organization, all warns that it will only be the year after that that the fruits of the current difficulties will ripen. In certain parts of the world, famine can be foreseen, the middle class will virtually cease to exist in many countries, very possibly in a country like Estonia, if the policy with which the current government intends to continue continues. It is the task of the government in a situation where it talks about war all the time, to lower taxes so that people can cope, so that people have the motivation to believe in this country, so that people have the motivation to protect this country, so that people can cope, that soldiers on the front know that their homes can do it. As the current course continues, I do not see that it is possible. It is therefore necessary to adopt radical decisions. Strangely enough, we even have a common denominator here. Lower taxes and, if necessary, regulate prices nationally, because when we talk about the war situation, these are the two most basic ways of helping people cope economically. If necessary, the state also needs logistical, supply, food, warm and other assistance measures to the population. Because when we're at war, you can't even be ashamed of something like military communism. But fortunately, we're not at war yet. That is why we are reasonable and, as a matter of priority, we are adopting these tax reductions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U302	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party Group has mandated Raimond Kaljulaid to speak on his behalf. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Good ambassadors, good fellows! In these debates in Parliaments, I always like the reaction to the previous debate, not just to come here and read the texts written by the councillors. I would like to say, of course, that I have said this before, that one of the recurring issues of economic policy discussions is that if something goes well in the economy, it is a good job for the government, but if something goes badly in the economy, for example, prices are rising, it is always due to external factors that the government regrettably lacked influence. It's always been that way. There is now an interesting new tax policy principle. That's exactly what it is. When a party of the directors of the universe lowers a consumption tax, the prices of goods and services in this category fall and availability improves. To this end, for example, there is a decision in the supplementary budget to lower VAT on media publications. But if the representatives of the non-universe directors' party have decided to reduce some consumption tax and have proposed it, then it does not result in a decrease in prices, no way. "Everyone knows that, it's an economic ABC. How come you simple people don't understand who submitted the bill? Well, that can't be. " So. Of course, when it comes to how people can be helped, the first preference of the Socialists was the solution that we offered to increase people's income. But that does not rule out that we cannot talk about reducing costs. Of course, I thank the Fatherland and the EKRE for their support for our bill. I want to bring a little nuance, too. When Martin Helme started his presentation, he said that alcohol excise duty would also be reduced. I already thought I'd call my good friend Jevgen, the chairman of the Tallinn City Council, and inform him about it, but it's not really in the bill. It's a small technical...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U304	There's no tobacco either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U305	Yeah. It's a little technical error. But it is clear that, of course, 100% does not reach consumption. Experience in other countries shows that if excise duties on fuel are reduced by one unit, only a part of it is reflected in a more favourable price. There is another important aspect of this debate, which specifically concerns excise duties on fuels. It is always pointed out that those who consume the most will win the most, and then it will be given an example of who they are. These are the wealthiest people with high-powered cars, and we will then support those richest sponsors of the Reform Party living in Viimsi. Actually, think about who else has a lot of fuel. There is also a high fuel consumption for a taxi driver who is not usually a very wealthy person, but the price of fuel in his position is very important. The locksmith, who drives around fixing people's locks, and the plumber, who drives around fixing people's pipes, also has a huge fuel consumption. A small florist who drives around with his small van and brings flowers and delivers flowers has a huge fuel consumption. Social Democrats have always felt a certain sympathy for the florists, as is well known. Under normal circumstances, I would, of course, be somewhat sceptical about this draft, precisely for these reasons. It supports more wealthy people and [tax reduction] does not reach consumer prices unambiguously. But we don't live under normal circumstances. The inflation rate was 18.8% in April, but the price increase in transport is 24.2% and the increase in housing costs is 59.7%. The price of firewood has increased twice over the year. Those people who still use oven heating in their homes are usually on a lower income, for them it is a great concern and tragedy. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U306	Two minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U307	A tank of fuel, which, a few years ago, cost a regular family car perhaps at most EUR 79 or 80, something in that area, now costs far over EUR 100, in the order of EUR 120. A year over EUR 1000 is certainly an additional cost for families only due to car fuel. So, for these reasons, in this exceptional situation we are in, of course, we must support proposals and measures that help people to cope. Once again, very critically, it must be pointed out that the government has put nothing on the table, except for this EUR 4 and 17 cents, which, then, is thought to be the case, older people and families with children will solve their problems. Some of my fellow Members from the Social Democratic Party today, due to other responsibilities, because of very important work obligations, which are also linked to inflation issues, cannot be present here and vote, but those who have such an opportunity, as far as I know, support the adoption of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U308	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U309	Ladies and gentlemen, It was not at all beautiful at the moment that the socialists said very poorly about national socialists, calling them the directors of the universe. But it's my impression, isn't it? They have tried here to explain how they set prices, inflation, make forecasts themselves and throw away all kinds of sociological analyses and financial truths. They have explained that the substance of the economy is public expenditure and debts and that the source of prosperity is public support. But it has to be admitted that a socialist remains a socialist, in that sense it was also a bit in favour of the previous speaker of self-criticism. I have already repeatedly pointed out that in finance, you can't say that you don't care where the money goes. No, the situation is perfectly normal in that sense. It is still important that when we do tax relief, we need to know whether this will somehow improve the economic environment. However, consumption taxes are not very burdensome for the economic environment. As far as they are burdensome, as far as excise duties are concerned, the objectives are simply environmental policy and such, infrastructure loading and so on. Acts have been introduced to mitigate harmful side effects, as well as for investments. To claim that the government... I don't know why this government is being brought out so much, I don't see any governments in this hall. But we still have this policy choice in the direction of helping those who are really suffering. It cannot be said that we are all sufferers and the country is at the same time indigenous rich, who can just throw money. No, there must be support for socially weak groups. Here a previous speaker spoke about how the pension was low and the taxes had to be lowered. I mean, that's incredibly ridiculous. How, then, will pensions be paid instead of taxes? There is no point in making people who do not pay taxes happy by losing taxes. They consume little, their revenues are low, and it is necessary to collect taxes to help them. After all, pension is paid in addition to other taxes, from consumption taxes. We do not think that there is a need to offer greater support to the beneficiaries, as this bill envisages, than to those who are in real trouble. No, the purpose of the collected taxes is to do common things, and it is also a common thing to help the weaker, including the payment of pensions. Pensioners are weaker, they can no longer objectively guarantee their own well-being. But this does not mean that the state can guarantee the well-being of all citizens. No, the state is still a common cause for citizens, an agreement, a tax collection, a social policy and investment. So the basic policy alongside social policy, whose opportunities are, of course, very limited, cannot achieve support for everyone, is investment. If, as has been said, the reason for the price increase is the energy deficit and it is not linked to the war in Afghanistan, my dears, it is linked to the war that one of the main energy suppliers in the region is having, then there is no point in cursing at its own government. There's no point in yelling at Washington, there's no point in coming to this Communist Manifesto to read it out here, even if you've been working on it for a lifetime and wanting to quote it. Tax reductions are appropriate in cases where they improve the economic environment. In this case, it doesn't fix it. It exacerbates difficulties, increases demand, actually increases the price of these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U310	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U311	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about excise duties and VAT. I do not think it would be necessary to talk at all about the social sector if we had reasonable prices and if these reasonable prices were market-based, if we had done everything to ensure that these prices were created under the conditions of competition on this market at the moment. But today we are talking about prices because one public company has simply made one technical mistake. We are talking about Elering's decision to build a third cable connection between Latvia and Estonia, an electricity connection. It's such a good example that if you have one large container and it's empty, you're gonna drill it at the bottom of one more hole so maybe you can get another drop out of somewhere, but you're gonna forget to fill it somehow. The guardian of the bill claimed that we can almost produce electricity on our own, but I must sadly admit that no, we still cannot produce the peak load[time volume] ourselves. We have about 1,000 megawatts of what we can produce ourselves, and the peak load is at 1600. This deficit is very high in winter at some point. At the same time, the previous government must be commended for the timely adoption of excise duty decisions. Thanks to this, last year the Estonian economy was the largest growth in Europe. Regardless of the activities of today's coalition, tax receipts will be better than 16% in the first quarter of this year. Of course, last year was a slightly different time, the corona was much worse, today we are in a war situation. If we look at what is happening on the gas market, we can see that Finland buys 100% of the gas from Russia and there are two major gas sellers. In the coming years, he will most likely buy from the same place, or Russia. Finland has an advantage over our country, for example, because they have an agreement until the end of this decade and their gas price is linked to the price of oil. They buy a gas of EUR 35 per megawatt-hour and sell us this autumn at EUR 100. For a very simple reason: Elering and the government have been doing everything in the last two months to prevent private operators from investing in Paldiski so that LNG ships can land there. It doesn't matter if it's the North Harbor or what Alexela's building. Everything is done to make sure nothing happens. I would ask what the state and government are doing. It brings an additional budget of EUR 213 million from the taxpayer's pocket and tries to give some part of it to Elering under completely incomprehensible conditions, so that it buys some kind of participation in Finland, nothing of which it does not exist and the participation of which it should not buy, but, as the law says, subsidiaries are a swampy area, a grey area, well it does not go down there. Then the other 170 million is 1 to buy hot gas. Today, the same thing costs less than 100 million, 97 million. I'd like to ask who the 70+ million goes to. We have businessmen who have said that they are asking only two questions. [Firstly] that Elering would build a connection to the pipeline network with the beach bridge. The Minister of Economic Affairs said a few days ago here that it costs 4 million...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U312	Aivar, is there an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U313	Yeah, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U314	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U315	The paper was sent by Elering to a private company. He asked me not to give you that number, but I can tell you that it's a lot bigger than that. As you understand, all these prices go to network prices and end-user prices. We need that pipe connection today. Another very important thing is that Elering doesn't interfere with the flow of gas in the pipe. One tube is, [gas] goes to Inčukalns and the other way back. There's gotta be a way. I am laughing that the Estonian state buys 1 sharpest gas supply security in the most expensive way, and as the Minister of Economic Affairs said yesterday, when all sellers go bankrupt, this market, or you will buy twice as much gas as today. However, Latvia and Lithuania have not [created] security of supply. At the same time, there is an agreement between the three countries under which, when a crisis situation comes, it should be shared equally. But, as you know, Estonia needs 5 sharps, Latvia has much bigger ones and Finland has even bigger ones. Maybe we'll have a few percent of the gas that the Estonian state has bought at a very expensive price. What's the solution? The solution is that Elering, the network operator, will purchase Russian gas through Finland and will charge in the meantime, although the government has clearly said that no gas must be purchased from Russia. But how will this gas be purchased when Lithuania has clearly said that from February 25th in Inčukalns they will not sell any grams of gas to Latvia, Estonia and Finland? Okay. The men of Eesti Gaas made a deal, got gas bought at a price, to give us some courage, who we have signed contracts. If someone now says that the fall in excise duty and VAT will not help with the price, then we can give a very good example that two years ago the fall in excise duty did so. I understand that the Reform Party has reduced the excise duty on special-marked fuel, which saves 8 cents per litre, and the value added tax on the press is reduced to 5%. So there are exceptions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It shows that it's still good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U316	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 565 at first reading. We're gonna have to vote on that, but first we're gonna do a hall call. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are dealing with Bill 565, the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the VAT Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The commission has proposed to reject draft 565 at first reading. Now I am putting to the vote the draft proposal by the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U317	The rejection proposal was supported by 46 delegates, with 30 against. The bill fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U318	Today's third item is the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws (repeal of environmental register laws) 441. This is a third reading. The lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft, but it is possible to negotiate first. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. Just had a call sign, so I won't make another call. In that case, I shall vote on the amendment of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government and the other Acts [draft] 441. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U319	70 ambassadors supported this draft, 0 against and no abstentions. It's passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U320	Today's fourth item: Third reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (approximation of special services). The lead committee wants a final vote, but first the negotiations. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U321	I'd like three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U322	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This law certainly has its own positive aspects, but today I am not talking about them and I am talking about the processing of this law, or rather certain mistakes that have occurred here. In the title of this law, we read that this is a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and other laws (approximation of special services). But this law has also amended the Defence Forces Service Act and the Defence League Act. The initiator, the Government of the Republic, has not come to the National Defence Committee by these two laws. The Committee on Legal Affairs has also not asked our committee for an opinion, and therefore the National Defence Committee has not addressed the aspects that concern us, that is, the amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act and the amendment of the Defence Union Act, at all in the Commission. We know we have a division of labour, there are laws for which each committee is responsible, and we are responsible for these laws. Unfortunately, we have not been involved in this legislative process at the moment. It is clear that no Riigikogu ambassador can read all the laws. For example, I did not find it until the second reading when we could no longer propose amendments, because it had already been addressed in the Commission. Perhaps an even more important aspect is that, as we know, the law of the Defence Union cannot be amended without hearing the opinion of the central management of the Defence Union and the body of elders. I don't see it being done anywhere. The same problem was also the draft amendment of the National Defence Act and other laws, where part of the amendment of the Defence Union Act was also part of the amendment, which was not correctly done by the initiator and which we did only in the Commission, so we asked the Commission for the opinion of the Defence Union and the honourable assemblies that we received in connection with the amendments. At the moment, we see that this has not been done. The Riigikogu itself should serve as an example of law enforcement. This has not happened in this case. Let me tell you a little bit about the content of this change that passed us. This concerned the amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act, which excluded § 149 (3) to (8) from that Act. I will read to you and introduce what we are declaring invalid, which we may not have paid any attention to at all. That law amended the exemption from active service to apply the Civil Service Act to it by virtue of the special features laid down in this Act. However, at the same time in the following paragraph, paragraphs 3 to 8 of § 149 are repealed. Perhaps the differences laid down by the same law on military service will be repealed. I'm just going to read you what we're going to cancel today. Some of the most important points here. Item 4: In the event of redundancy, the active army member shall be compensated by his period of service as follows: up to three years of basic salary for two months, three to five years of basic salary for three months, five to ten years of basic salary for five months, ten and more years of basic salary for ten months. According to the Civil Service Act, only one month's basic salary is known to be paid in the event of redundancy. It is clear that if, for example, an infantry officer or a sub-officer, an artillery officer or an anti-aircraft officer gets laid off, he will not be able to find any professional work. As an infantry officer, I left the service, only in this high state have I been able to use my knowledge and skills to a certain extent. If a person wants to find another job, it takes time. That's what these buffers were for, but now we're just losing them in one second. There's also point 6, very modest, but it's important that the active force is released by the Commander of the Defence Forces as a result of the lay-off. Until then, the command of the Commander of the Defence Forces was released from active service. According to the Civil Service Act, of course, the Commander of the Defence Forces is not obliged to do so, so that the commander of each institution or unit can free his own people. To conclude, this is not a good treatment of staff and it is not a good procedure how it has been here. If I asked you if you know that it is in here and which we are voting for today, I can be sure that most of you do not know this because these issues have not risen. This is not good procedural practice and, therefore, the Conservative People's Party Group, despite certain positive aspects that exist here in [the draft], cannot support this law. I call on all my fellow Members to be more careful in the future. We could certainly have dealt with this if the Committee on Legal Affairs had asked us for an opinion on what he should have done if the Government of the Republic overlooked it. There are serious procedural problems here. It is not up to me to assess whether, for example, the exclusion of the Board of Elders of the Defence League and the central administration is such a serious problem that this [law] can be declared correctly, it is not mine to judge, but we have unfortunately made some mistake here with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U324	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. But now it's been so long since the last call that we have to do the hall call again. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 508. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U325	The draft was supported by 52 ambassadors, 16 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U326	Today's fifth item is the presentation by the Minister for the Interior of the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." We have the Secretary of the Interior, Kristian Jaani. I shall briefly present the procedure. First of all, the Minister's report is up to 25 minutes. The questions of the members of the Riigikogu follow. A member of the Riigikogu can submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations, where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. We will not take any decision at the end of the debate. Please, Mr. Kristian Jaani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U327	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to give you an overview of developments in internal security and internal security last year and to highlight the major challenges of the coming years. The area of internal security and internal security has made a major development leap over the years. All those who have contributed to it deserve recognition. Significant work has been done in these areas to ensure the security and security of our country and the people living here on a daily basis. The results of the 2020 survey, where more than 90% of Estonia's people said that Estonia is a country where it is safe to live, can be highlighted as recognition work. This is the result of years of work. At the same time, of course, the war in Ukraine has made its changes, the security picture in Europe has changed considerably and has also had a significant impact on people's sense of security. According to recent public opinion studies, the Ukrainian war has made people feel less secure. Our task is to provide greater security to the people of Estonia during this anxious period than ever before. In the autumn, we saw the threat posed by the Belarus hybrid attack. We showed by our real actions that the surveillance of the Estonian border begins at the Lithuanian-Belarus border, where we sent an ESTPOL-5 police unit to help prevent mass illegal immigration on the Lithuanian-Belarus border. We offered important support to our neighbours, including Latvia and Poland. I am sure that Estonia will never be alone in a similar situation. On the 104th anniversary of Estonia's independence Putin Russia's full-scale military invasion of an independent Ukrainian state began. Although the war is not far from us, Estonia is safe. Our public order and values are protected. A strong and functioning network of allies will help protect us. On the other hand, in a difficult security situation, we must assess the state's readiness with a completely new perspective and be prepared for all kinds of scenarios. Good listeners! The security of the Estonian state is based on a strong border, which is better guarded today than ever before. Our goal is a well-protected external border and our goal is to build our border infrastructure fully by 2025. This is a signicant and important step in the whole of Europe's security perspective, as the Schengen area as a whole is even safer. Estonia is an example and a worthy partner for many countries here. Thanks to the decisions to allocate additional funds, we have been able to raise the ambition of building the border. For example, we can build a fence on the land border where we had abandoned it earlier because of the limited budget, and also build patrols and surveillance positions on the Narva River. We have also made efforts to bring the deadline for border construction up to and including one and a half years closer, to 2025 instead of the end of 2026. The migratory pressure that has been artificially created on Lithuania, Latvia and Poland has shown us that, alongside border construction, there is a need to amend the state border law so that the police can also do their job in situations where foreigners are used as a weapon in a hybrid attack. Work on this is ongoing and the corresponding draft is currently under the procedure of the Riigikogu. Looking back into the past for a second, we are not going to get over or around the COVID-19 crisis. This has also had a significant impact on the area of internal security. The society is divided by conspiracy, false news, disinformation spread quickly on the web. This also increased the workload of law enforcement authorities, especially web-constabilities. This year we have also experienced the spread of false information and propaganda because of the war launched by Putin in Ukraine. We must therefore be prepared for all kinds of, and different, crises. According to last year's survey, 77% of municipalities have achieved advanced or exemplary levels of crisis preparedness. According to the emergency preparedness survey of residents, people's readiness in parts of Estonia has improved over a few years, although it is lower in Ida-Virumaa, for example. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Here we need a joint contribution from all of us to reach all the corners of Estonia and all the people of Estonia. Making preparations for crises is, of course, better at a peaceful time, but decisions with greater impact are often made when crises are tangible, whether it is driven by a massive blackout, a blizzard, a pandemic, mass immigration or, in this case, the war in Ukraine. Thus, the 'Estonia 2035' action plan must continue to be a strong direction to strengthen crisis preparedness, and so must be supranational. Within a little more than a year, fundamental decisions have been made in a broad national defence perspective in the area of the Ministry of the Interior's administration of nearly 140 million euros and some funds have already been devoted to activities. This clearly shows that protection and security of our population have a very important role to play in national defence. Funding must form a coherent whole in the future. With the additional money, we can now resolve a number of previously pending concerns and take several good steps forward to strengthen the country's preparedness. The area of government of the Ministry of the Interior focuses, for example, on increasing the protection of the population so that Estonian people can cope better in crisis situations. The preparation of shelters that have received much attention, risk awareness sessions, as well as outreach, risk communication and, of course, exercises will contribute to this. We plan to develop both collapse-savings, chemical rescues and demining capabilities. The Rescue Board will continue to provide guidance and training for local authorities in improving crisis preparedness. The plan is to further develop a pool of volunteers with a crisis role. We will also continue with the cooperation agreement concluded by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence in 2021 in order to increase cooperation between the fields of internal defence and military defence and in domestic crisis management. It will, inter alia, help to clarify how the Defence Forces and the Defence League can be involved in crisis resolution and to clarify the role of crisis volunteers. The Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the authorities in the area of government, has launched a number of prevention and outreach activities to improve preparedness for crises, such as the "Varu before the Maru" campaign. We are also preparing for the introduction of a location-based notification system for mobile phones already at the end of this year. This will help citizens and institutions to report the risks in a timely manner. For public authorities, clarification of the allocation of roles was probably the most important in the area of crisis regulation. The preparations for civil crises and national defence were united last year into one whole, coordinated by the Government of the Republic and the State Chancellery. This will allow the country as a whole to be prepared for different simultaneous crises, in which each institution solves its own responsibilities, even in a crisis situation. Whether it is a crisis or not, every person is helped to make Estonia safer. A difficult time has shown that every person needs to think about what are the factors that can have a significant impact on his/her life, his/her family, as well as on the daily lives of the community, such as the sighting of a needy person, increasing the security of his/her home, the provision of possible crises and, of course, the prevention of accidents with responsible behaviour. Useful tips for dealing with crisis situations can also be found in the Women's Home Protection app and on the Rescue Board's website "Be Ready!'. Thus, prevention is very important in the "Estonia 2035" view; it is one of the best protections against potential threats. A safe environment is created by proactive behaviour. The state must play a leading role here, but every person must contribute to a secure environment. I will bring out some prevention activities that the Ministry of the Interior and its administration have consistently carried out. We have various programs, outreach activities, as well as home counselling. To give a separate example of the prevention of close relationship violence. Last year, we tried the method of pro-active conversation directed at those who were violent. Its aim is to prevent the recurrence of violence. This is worth noting, in particular, because it provides for the first time an opportunity to assist all sides of violence. Often, the origins of the problems that cause accidents are the same. After all, social and health problems are interrelated, and prevention must therefore be carried out across sectors. To this end, we agreed, for example, with the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Social Protection on the principles of cross-sectoral prevention. Another concrete example of the systematicisation of cooperation in prevention is the approval of "Estonian drug policy 2030" by the Government of the Republic's Committee on Drugs Prevention. It is, of course, more important than documents to take concrete steps. Local authorities and local networking also play an important role in prevention and security. Security networking has been being carried out for years. It now needs to move forward meaningfully, and for that we are drawing up the concept of the councils for the security of local governments. This year we plan various activities to support local governments. However, how can local authorities contribute to the role of improving and preventing security? The amendments to the Traffic Act, which entered into force this March, are a good example. This allows municipalities, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and the Transport Department, to install speed cameras on the local road, i.e. to be involved in the enforcement of traffic. Half of the amount of traffic camera fines will be received by the municipality that installed the camera in the future and the resulting revenue will be used by the municipalities in particular to solve problems affecting traffic safety. This has certainly been the right course. As we speak here today about the future of internal security, it is also important to raise the question of whether, in addition to the police, the circle of security providers could be wider. Catching a dangerous criminal is, of course, the work of the police, and so it will remain. On the other hand, the police have tasks that might be performed, for example, by the law enforcement authorities of the local government, if the local government has the willingness and will to do so, not that it is a duty. If there is readiness, then there will certainly be a question of cost recovery, and here too, the state has a role to play. Here, for example, the Netherlands: local law enforcement officers are taken there as officials with limited police rights and their tasks include, for example, dealing with minor offences. As I pointed out above, in recent years we have had to resolve various crises where the police have been at the forefront. Both the municipal law enforcement units and the security company have always been very supportive of the police during this period and have done very well with their tasks. The fact is that the number of police officers is now the smallest ever and the security crisis, I dare say, the greatest ever. It's a sore spot that definitely needs to be solved. Thus, expanding the range of security service providers would bring more people into the field, help to share the burden and create a power arm and would help to ensure the well-being and safety of the population. You've probably all heard the saying that people are our greatest asset. This is indeed the case in the area of internal security and internal security. Society highly appreciates their work, and this is demonstrated by people's trust in police, rescue and alarm personnel. Namely, it is still the three highest-trusted institutions in Estonia. However, this alone is far from sufficient to keep employees. We are constantly trying to improve the working environment as well as development and career opportunities, but we cannot escape the issue of pay. The problem is with minimum wages for police, rescue and rescue officers. Last year it was possible to raise the minimum wage by 11.5% for police officers, 11.4% for rescue workers and 6.4% for rescue agents, thanks to the additional money received from the state budget and the internal security authorities. But that is far from enough. Yes, in order to keep wages competitive, internal security and internal security agencies have and will continue to restructure their activities wherever possible. On the other hand, internal restructuring is no longer enough. Let me give you an example here. If, for example, the necessary wage level should be ensured from the so-called own resources of the institutions, we would be forced to lay off half of the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board by 2025. This is not conceivable, because such concessions in terms of speed of assistance, saving lives and property cannot be allowed in any way. The number of internal security staff has also decreased by 18% since 2008 and a large retiring wave is ahead for both police and rescue officers. Thus, the major challenge for the coming years will be to provide decent remuneration in the field of internal security and to ensure that new staff are trained to the extent necessary. More public budget resources will be needed in these areas in the future. I stress that securing and creating internal security is not just a cost. Last year we measured the contribution of the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board to society. According to this, the Rescue Board will generate revenue for society of nearly EUR 1 billion per year and the Police and Border Guard Board of EUR 867 million per year. Thus, these figures, the contribution of internal security institutions to society exceeds several times the money allocated to them in the state budget. I would point out that these are not fines. Alongside the reacting institutions, our more than 4,000 volunteers are playing a major role in internal security, and our excellent people, who have the indispensable power. Volunteers respond to accidents, provide a backside for rescue work, ensure traffic safety, contribute to traffic surveillance activities and preventative work. In 2021, volunteers were added to the ranks of rescuers and marine rescuers. Volunteers are also helping to answer 1247 calls on the national hotline. Although the number of relief officers decreased by 4%, the number of hours worked by relief officers increased thanks to their diverse involvement. In addition to increasing the number of volunteers in internal security, we will continue to work towards more diverse volunteering and participation opportunities for existing volunteers. We must be grateful because the more people with different backgrounds and experiences act as volunteers, the better solutions will be found, the more successful we will be in preventing accidents in the field of internal security in the future and in providing rapid assistance. In order to ensure the highest possible level of internal security, we have considered it important to modernise the working conditions of the creators and keepers of internal security. Over the last year, our employees have moved to several new or renovated buildings. Some good examples: the Pärnu joint building, the Sillamäe joint building, the Valga police station, the joint buildings of the Defence Police Department, Kohtla-Järve and Kiviõli and the new-looking rescue commando buildings are being completed for Türi and Ruhnu island. There are many other buildings in the design and order: for Kilingi-Nõmme, Viljandi, Jüri, Haapsalu, Paide and Jõgeva commandos. An important step in this direction is a significant improvement in the follow-up of internal security staff and in the opportunities for further training. We have decided that we will expand the training opportunities in the Väike-Maarja exercise square of the Estonian Academy of Interior Protection. These are all important investments so that we can provide even more quality assistance in the future. A few words also include changes to legislation that will help to create internal security more efficiently and smartly and to keep it today and tomorrow. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With your help, we have adopted a law that allows biometric personal data to be occupied and preserved. This will enable us, for example, to fight crime more effectively, to ensure security in society and to protect personal data with modern, high-level tools. By law of foreigners, we pay serious attention to preventing and preventing the misuse of migration, both in labour and learning mobility, on the other hand, we encourage investment in Estonia. In addition, in this Chamber, the draft harmonisation of special services that you have just approved, concerning the various social guarantees and service regulations for internal security workers and volunteers. The development of a new Preparedness Act is underway, which will make the roles in preparing for civil crises and national defence even clearer. Internal security authorities are the first line of defence and therefore a clear legal framework and broad-based cooperation in both preparation and resolution are essential. However, the work field is wide. To improve the system of issuing identity documents, we work in the direction of finding a service provider who, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, would issue identity documents both in Estonia and Finland. We also work with alternative solutions to install digital kiosks outside the service halls, which would help bring the services closer to the people of Estonia, so that they do not always have to go to the police service hall. Then, for example, the PBGB should not necessarily go to the service room to take a document photo or to give fingerprints or follow a document. Finally, I will also briefly open up issues in the area of civil society. One of the important challenges facing us in the 'Estonia 2035' view is that local authorities cooperate systematically with local residents and communities on a network basis. A large part of the citizens' initiatives take place at local level, where people often gain their first experience in participating in civil society. At the same time, there is a lack of systematic cooperation at local level with local residents and communities. It is important to create an interest and willingness in communities across Estonia to participate in local life issues and to create the necessary forms of cooperation for this purpose. We are planning, for example, this year to develop a model for a community-centred approach. It would also certainly be better to improve the legal framework, for example, to create opportunities for donors to financially support not only registered NGOs but also so-called informal citizens' initiatives or to define more clearly local authorities' tasks as networking communities in the region. This will all contribute to the development of communities. The stronger our communities are, the stronger our country will be. The Ministry of the Interior is also a party to the Social Business and Innovation Cooperation Agreement, which was signed yesterday. Its aim is to confirm the interest of all parties to engage in the holistic development of sectoral organisations and social innovation. It will also be one of the priorities of the coming years to set up a fund to support innovative and innovative civil society initiatives. Our task is to create a favourable environment and fertile soil for civil society, so that all of this can actually be done. Let's finish with a positive note. Significant progress was made in participating in the charity of Estonian residents. Between 2015 and 2020 donations to charity increased by 58%, with the share of permanent donors in the population being 19% last year. In conclusion, we have been living together in crises for several years, but thanks to the good people of Estonia, we have successfully managed with them and by keeping them together. Why do I say "together"? Because in crises, the contribution of every person, company, organization, local government and many others counts. The area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is working every day to ensure that the sense of security in Estonia is preserved and that people's awareness of their crisis role is raised. We achieve a safe living environment as a result of the joint work, care and responsibility of everyone. Thank you for listening. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U328	Minister, thank you for your presentation. You have questions. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U329	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Thanks for the report. In terms of Estonia's long-term development, do you see the risk that people living in Estonia interpret war differently in Ukraine? Clearly, it is not possible to change people's thinking in a forced way. However, how can a balance be achieved in society so that people, on the one hand, are not afraid to express their opinions but, on the other hand, respect the state's views on security and security?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U330	Thank you for your question. There must certainly not be a situation in a democratic Estonian country where someone should be afraid to express their opinion. At the same time, of course, it must be borne in mind that the publication of an opinion cannot again be something which somehow divides society or is not clearly argued, for example. We have seen many of these situations on social media, fortunately less in public space. There has been quite a lot of public opinion, which is aimed not so much at expressing opinion but at creating panic and fear. It certainly shouldn't be. Once again, however, it must be possible for an opinion to be published in every democratic country, and every person must be able to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U331	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U332	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Well, human resources policy is certainly a very important issue for ensuring the whole of internal security. To put it mildly, we have not been very successful here. Last year's budget and the actions actually implemented can be described as a failure. We've had a drop in the number of saviors in our commandos, we're seriously short of police officers. You yourself, in your report, called it a very big challenge, yet budgetary policy went exactly in the opposite direction to solving this problem. One small example to illustrate: Rapla County has become a training base for bringing policemen to Tallinn, if they can do well, then the same work is simply overpaid. This has been repeatedly pointed out. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What are you planning to do to resolve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U333	Thank you. Certainly I will first specify that there has been no reduction in the number of rescue workers [in employment] in any rescue command in Estonia in recent years. I'm sure there are empty positions. People have retired and people will definitely be recruited back there as a matter of urgency. But really, how can we ensure that people in the field of internal security are valued? Our vision is that by 2025 the salary of every worker entering internal security would be 1.2 Estonian average, 2025 euros, so that this base would be the same for all across Estonia. This would probably help to avoid the situation you have shown that people are running from Rapla to work in Tallinn. Today we say that it is actually a natural career movement system, often people themselves want to move on to [another] region, having been in another region for a long time. Estonia is small in the same way, but both the police and the rescuers have completely different challenges in different regions. People want to test themselves, that is why they are moving between regions, although today, indeed, there is a situation where policemen, for example, have so-called higher wages in some regions. But it relates very specifically to only two regions, it relates to Harjumaa, it relates to Ida-Virumaa, specifically only to Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U334	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U335	Good manager! Good minister! Your colleague Klaus Bouillon, Minister of the Interior of Saarland, said on 22 March, the day when 300 Ukrainian war refugees came to Saarland, the previous day was 90, that our measure was full. It's been almost two months. There's a per capita in the island somewhere EUR 40,000. We have this half smaller. My question is, of course, that we must help and assist, but when will our measure be reached, based on your colleague Bouillon's statement on 22 March?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U336	Thank you. Indeed, Ukraine's war refugees must be fully helped. Let us look at the situation in Estonia. More than 36000 people who have stayed in Estonia have reached [have] more than 58000, but a large part of them have used Estonia as a transit country and moved on from here. Let's see how much protection has been given. This amount is the circuit 26000 in Estonia. We have made a budget estimate of 50,000 Ukrainian refugees in a so-called view. In particular, we will base our efforts on the number of people who have received temporary protection, who have also received the corresponding services in Estonia. We see that immigration from Ukraine, the immigration of refugees, has stabilised. There are days when the number of people leaving Ukraine is smaller than the number returning to Ukraine. Of course, I think it is a little too early today for those who have fled from the war to return to Ukraine, but, again, we all hope that the presence of Ukrainian war refugees will be temporary, and we will do everything we can to ensure that these people can return to Ukraine. Let's look at the number of people in temporary accommodation. The number of these people is just over 4500. There is not much in itself, given that, as I said, more than 36,000 refugees have arrived from Ukraine. Long-term accommodation is already available for 1600 people. So we're gonna make it. Rather, the migration of war refugees is stabilising. I very much hope, I am an optimist, that this war will soon be won by Ukraine and that the people will certainly be able to return soon. But, of course, I am not so naive that I would think that all people can return there, certainly some will remain here and probably for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U337	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U338	Thank you, Minister, for a thorough review. I can say that there are still things that have been done in the area of internal security, looking at the meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs and at what drafts we have had. But according to the Director-General of the PBA, Elmar Vaher, the last increase in the salaries of the police was at the beginning of 2005, i.e. when the Social Democrats were in the Ministry of the Interior holding a ministerial office. After that, wages have risen by 1 to 3% per year. "The government usually gives us more money for police officers while we don't get more money for other servants. We've been trying to find an addition to the support team inside the facility. " This is what the Director General of the PBA said in the press. You were talking about raising the minimum wage in the police department. So how much has it really gone up? Don't you think that's a little short?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U339	Thank you for your question. And thank you for paying attention to this subject. Indeed, at different times there have been different possibilities. However, this year, police officials' wages rose by over 10%, by 11.5%, so that more than 10% was paid by police officers this year. At present, the minimum wage for police is EUR 1660 plus [pay] for working night hours or for additional work. The average wage in the police is, of course, a bit higher. Real wage increases for rescuers, for example, this year, I am talking specifically about the command level, there was just over 100 euros of real income growth. The same size and a little bigger was the case for police officers. Of course, inflation was even faster than this wage increase, but having met a lot of both police officers and rescuers, always every euro that is more than 0, is better than nothing and is very pleased with what we came this year. Of course, next year's wage increases will have to continue, there is no question about that, and I will certainly continue to work towards that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U340	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister of the Interior! Unfortunately, I can't really go along with the enthusiasm that was in your presentation. Unfortunately, we often have rescuers staring at the two of us instead of the previous four or five, and drivers are also occasionally on their own watch, the PBGB service points have queues for documents [on receipt] and so on. But that's what I wanted to ask. This morning I drove to work and listened to the news. Under the heading "The world today," the journalist Jüri Nikolayev made an overview of Russian media, and there was such a statement that four times more people have arrived in Estonia than last year, i.e. 125000 people in three months. Can you tell us what Estonia's data are, our border data, how many people have come to Estonia by Russia this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U342	Thank you for your question. I can describe to you the 24-hour average border traffic on the example of the Narva border crossing. Let us see how many people cross the border between Estonia and Russia at the Narva border crossing point. The incoming amount and the outgoing amount are fairly balanced. The incoming amount of a day is the circa of 1200 people, the outgoing amount, for example, yesterday there was 1300.1400. Even more went out than came in. Perhaps the incoming and outward direction is actually quite balanced. Often, when statistics are produced, only the incoming direction is taken into account and put together in this way, but it does not take into account that at the same time there is also a movement out of the country. In turn, let's look at the people who enter the country. More than 60% of them are people who hold a residence permit in Estonia, which means they do not travel with a visa, but mostly cross the border because they are permanent residents of Estonia, but yes, citizens of the Russian Federation. The rest are indeed people who cross the border with either Estonia or, more broadly, with a Schengen visa. But once again: the crossing of the external borders is actually in a relatively good balance, as much as comes in, going back out. The majority who cross the border are permanent residents of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U343	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U344	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of the Interior! In your brief review, which you have also submitted on paper to the members of the Riigikogu, you are quite right in the section "We support mental health and reduce mental and physical violence" that several or several high-risk cases of domestic violence were solved through the MARAC network. It is precisely my question that concerns the sustainability and the possibility of continuing the MARAC network. In the example of Viljandi, I can say that it works perfectly, both local social workers and Viljandi Hospital are involved in this network. Will these projects continue, are there cuts in funding, or, on the contrary, will funding increase for these activities? What's the situation? This is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U345	Thank you. Indeed, the use of the MARAC format, or Multi-Agency Risk Assessment Conference, has been very successful. I have also participated in the work of this network in Harjumaa, Tallinn. Indeed, I assure you that it is a success and brings to one table all the important partners who are at their fingertips to resolve such situations, to prevent relapse, whether it be psychologists, child protection workers, social workers, police, prosecutor's office, or the victim, as well as the perpetrator himself. Yeah, it's definitely planned to continue, it's been proven that this system is good. Certainly, if there are projects and systems that have so-called proven their effectiveness and this is a so-called evidence-based approach, then, of course, this is something we will continue with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U346	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U347	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I'm not going to ask you how the conversations with the perpetrators are going to take place using the MARAC method. But I don't understand, and I ask you, why is it a good option to give your fleet, police and border guard fleet to the Ministry of Defence? On the one hand, it's like you're weakening the police and the border guard. But tell me why it's a good option. I don't think that's a good option, but it's interesting to listen to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U348	Thank you. These are areas or topics that have been actively discussed between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, I think, for more than ten years, discussions have been held, various analyses have been carried out. This time, too, when we took a more serious step forward with the Ministry of Defence, very important analyses were also carried out. My expectation of them certainly was, firstly, whether it could be done legally. Yeah, it's possible. Surely there was the expectation that the situation at sea must be better, that today's situation must not be maintained, but that it must be better, only that it can be the goal. If we say that we are putting today's police and border guard ships and today's naval ships under uniform control, I would not so much stress today's naval ships, but look into the future, look at the five, look at the ten-year term of the submarines and the navy side. This situation is certainly a bit different than today. This amendment will make it possible to become more effective at sea, better view of the situation at sea, more efficient investment in a similar place. So once again: I believe that, if such units work together in a similar way and are managed efficiently, then there will certainly be a benefit for all the people of Estonia and, of course, for our allies. So I think that's a very sensible direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U349	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U350	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will ask again about this border crossing with Russia. You rudely reported it to be well-balanced, but I don't know what you're statistically considering here. I am asking about those people who, as so-called Ukrainian refugees, are crossing the Russian border. On 21 April, it was already news from the ERR that 7450 Ukrainians have arrived at the Narva border crossing point. I think last week the Prime Minister told us, too, when we asked about these big numbers, that there would not be so much going through the southern border that most of them are now crossing the Narva border. There are hundreds of people a day. What kind of figures did you tell me about the statistics these people are going into when you say that as much goes out as they come in? If a lot of Ukrainian refugees come in, will there be a lot of Russians going out, or how are we supposed to understand these things? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U351	Thank you for your question. I'd be happy to be more specific. Indeed, the answer I gave earlier was not about people coming here, seeking temporary protection or moving forward as a transit passenger. This is indeed the case, that if, in the past, Ukrainian war refugees reached Estonia across internal borders, so to speak, through the European Union to the end of Estonia, and some moved forward as transit passengers, today we really see that already 50-75% of Ukrainians arriving in Estonia, who seek refuge from the war, are coming through Russia. They come here, most of them use Estonia as a transit country. They are not staying here, but they are moving back from here through Europe to either Poland or Western Ukraine. Those who remain here apply for either international protection or temporary protection. Indeed, in this sense, when we look at the Ukrainians who are fleeing from the war, they are, of course, more crossing the border, namely, across the external borders in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U352	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U353	Thank you. I take the opportunity of my second question and will continue on this subject: the Ukrainian refugees coming across the Russian border. Please disprove information or disinformation spread among the people, depending on how you explain it. Do you control these people, all the more so that if they go to other countries as transit passengers, there will be no trouble? Do we have the exact control of who these people are? Are they coming with relatively new Ukrainian passports, or are they among these people? I expect this contingent coming from Russia to be particularly closely monitored, and I expect you to. Why don't you open up a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U354	Thank you. Indeed, when we talk about external border surveillance, I say that external border control is very strong, very effective. Very many people who want to enter Estonia from the Russian Federation will be denied entry and will be rerouted. There are more than five, more than ten people each day who cannot cross the border because they cannot explain the purpose of the journey and their entry into the country is prohibited. This amount is quite large a day, not only on the land border, but also on the air border at Tallinn airport, for example. Basic control is not so-called this transit control, because indeed, if a person has already entered the European Union, then progress is free from here, we do not have border controls, no one controls a person when we leave Estonia, we are checking the way in at the southern border today. But once again: at the external border, this control is very active, interviews are being conducted, and a very large number of people are being directed to the second stage, where further checks are being carried out on these people. Indeed, there have also been cases when a person has two passports with him, for example, and then there is a different story, and a person cannot get here. So I can assure you that controls at the external borders are very strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U355	Minister, thank you for your report and I thank you for your answers. No further questions. Thank you. Now I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor. Please ask Marek Jürgenson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu's chair of speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U356	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, first of all, to Minister Jaan for a thorough and, in my opinion, very positive review. However, in life, however, it is often the case that the focus on defence and internal security only comes when the crisis knocks on the door. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am pleased to note that internal security, more specifically, comprehensive security, has been a matter of Kristian Jaan's heart, and that a number of bottlenecks can be resolved under his leadership. The Centre Party has always valued people and their livelihood. That is why I am pleased that in this year's state budget we have foreseen the means to raise the minimum wage for rescuers and police officers working on the front line and for Emergency Response Centre rescue officers. I admit that the wage increase could have been even bigger and even wider across the sector, but we will certainly come back to this in the autumn when the national budget negotiations in 2023 start. The confidence of the Estonian people in police officers and rescuers is 90%, and they must therefore be guaranteed a decent income, so that our safety keepers do not have to struggle in many jobs. As a result of the war in Ukraine, there is no doubt that Estonia must have a proper eastern border. With favourable weather conditions and the efforts of the people involved, we are moving at a good pace by building the eastern border. It is likely that the external border will be completed even earlier than originally planned. We all understand that under changed circumstances, construction has become more expensive, but I am sure that there will be consensus in the government to cover the additional costs. Today, national defence and internal security need to be looked at more widely. When the crisis breaks out, there must be a willingness to react and a commitment from representatives of many sectors. This is a broad defence, which must be financed as a whole, because one side of the war cannot do without the other. The COVID crisis and the current war refugees have shown greater concerns that need to be resolved as a matter of urgency. In the last 15 months, nearly 140 million euros have been allocated to national defence activities in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior. This is undoubtedly very much needed and the additional money expected, because we have made a great deal of concessions in the past. Now we can create the readiness that we have delayed so far in a resource shortage, but what we really need is for us to manage in the event of a possible war threat. During the war, civilians must be protected and people who save our people and provide security for our citizens must survive. The existence of the allies adds to a sense of security, but first and foremost, we must secure our own rear and prepare our own society. Finally, I will briefly mention the worthwhile initiative, which I hope will come about. As for the arrival of war refugees, the challenge is to apply for and issue identity documents. The queues at the service points are exceptionally long, there are a lot of frustrated people, but Estonia as a small country has shown that we can quickly develop flexible and innovative solutions. Personally, I am keeping my fingers crossed that the issue of identity documents outside service halls will be completed by the end of this year. Last year, the Police and Border Guard Board issued a total of more than 409000 identity documents, and this service alone put a very heavy burden on the staff of the service halls. Evidently, many agree with me that the service could be more flexible and comfortable for a person. I wish the Minister the strength to implement the action plan in this area. Safer Estonia is in all our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U357	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Anti Polandmets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U358	Thank you, manager. Dear Riigikogu! Despite the fact that we were talking about wartime, the extra budget was talking about wartime, the presentation by the Minister of the Interior was still somewhat optimistic: local authorities are prepared, on a good level, everything is well planned, the construction of the border is at a good pace, even wages are increasing. But if you get into the subject, I don't share that optimism. Wartime calls for a stronger critical note from us than for some other years. In fact, the optimism of the Minister for the Interior was also expressed when we presented the arms law by the EKRE and the Fatherland and discussed it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Minister of the Interior optimisticly confirmed that even one of the Russian citizens had been taken away and that there was a procedure for a few persons. They say one of them's been taken off! I'm just not so convinced that our security authorities are so good at seeing a person through that they can take a gun from one person and then the site is clean out of 1300. We may have good organs, but still they can't see inside a person, we're realists. Or the fact that five or six pieces are being pushed off the border, as we heard. Is it really very effective? Russia is likely to produce Ukrainian passports with some kind of printing press and quickly. I am not surprised that some Ukrainian passport holders are already running out of time in Ukraine and are committing diversionary acts. It's at least logical wartime behavior from the opposite party, who doesn't give mercy and who doesn't have any, minimal ethics. If we're too optimistic, we're gonna end up like Russian generals under Kiev, who went hitting with a hat and planned a parade on the Hrešcha barrier a week after the attack. Let's look at the extra budget: only 1.9% go directly to military capabilities. Well, this isn't the U-turn that we're waiting for and what the retired colonel in Kunna is talking about. It's not a U-turn, it's a tinkering. In terms of internal security, much of [the money] is going to be social assistance for war refugees. So in both internal security and national defence, we need a U-turn. As my good colleague Leo Kunnas says, there won't be a third alarm clock. A lot of ideas that we've had so far have to go to the trash can. We can no longer deal with gender neutrality, but with real things. Your excellent network of state-funded civil society organisations is very busy working on this [Soviet neutrality]. Some of them deal with natural stupidity for public money, division of the state, incitement to revolutionary movement. During the day of the day, people are involved, and then they talk cutely about civil society. The state-funded red revolution, which is currently being carried out in the shadow of some LGBT and other insanity, is then this civil society. Makes me laugh. In wartime, it is unacceptable to engage in such division. Unacceptable! Grow up. All these non-profits, grow up! Time to split up is over. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U359	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U360	Okay. Pentus-Rosimannus said: for more than 3 million we are improving the evacuation reserves, which means replenishing supplies from decks to generators, tent bearings and beds. It's a very modest ambition. There's something going on the border, yes, it's essential. But our need for development [needs to act] more quickly. What we really need is not a wartime budget, but a crisis budget, to be exact. This crisis is a major, biggest war in Europe since World War II. Risk reporting systems, capabilities for large-scale evacuation are permitted. But when it comes to shadows, for example, is the shelter of the Riigikogu getting ready? Can we wipe out the floor and put ventilation in the constitutional institutions [in shelters]? In a year, that would be possible. We're just drawing some plans. No, it's not convincing. We're in a hurry. I don't think the shelter of the president's office has been wiped out. Once, when I was there, it was just full of rags and junk. Is it a wartime budget if we cannot create an elementary emergency exit or shelter even for a constitutional institution that is first hit? Not convincing. Somewhere, diagrams are drawn to march through the woods or to leave the city. Not convincing. In February, when the war had begun, Jürgen Ligi and Kalle Laane announced that there was no need to create new capabilities in Estonia; we have allies. We are equally wise in internal security, that we are moving evolutionaryly somewhere, but the rapid changes, the radical changes that we need, we cannot get with their money. In order to ensure sufficient motivated staff, a decent salary is needed, I agree, but the Minister said that it is actually managed modestly at the expense of internal reserves, and it is unable to keep up with inflation in any way. In conditions of galloping inflation, it is vital that we maintain the people of internal security. We've already lost some with a forced vaccination. There was nothing connecting, nothing supporting security. There are some here, some ideas of digitisation, speeding up the digitalisation of the offence procedure. Very good. We are once again a good digital state here. Cross-cutting prevention just reasonable. Let's see how it works. The reduction of fire accidents and deaths is reasonable. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let's do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U361	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair from the Social Democratic... Sorry, procedural question, Jürgen Ligi. Do you want to be a representative of the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U362	No, my name was just mentioned during the negotiations. May I? My name was mentioned and slandered, I was given the claim that Estonia does not need new capabilities. I even despise the word "capacity." There can only be talk about powers. But since today we are talking about internal security at all, I [I say] have never expressed an opinion on it. That we have allies and that we develop our military abilities with them, I have said so, but never have I said that we do not need more military powers. I always said it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U363	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Heljo Pikhof for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U364	Dear Minister, Good fellows! First of all, thank you for your presentation. Now let's take a look at where the minister prefers to remain silent. Five years ago, the Social Democrats created a 1.5 million euro programme in government to repair the heating systems of households in difficulty, to which municipalities added just as much of you. This was the first time that the country supported such a large amount of improvements in domestic hotspots. During the project, the Rescue Board organized the fireplaces of 1797 homes in conjunction with local authorities. But you found that households in difficulty do not need help and this year's budget will no longer find this programme. Perhaps the country has been run so well that no one has a problem with their livelihood? Clearly, broken fireplaces are a major source of fire risk, and accidents will not be missed. Dear Minister, I doubt you'll be proud of your decision when you read another news about an old man who was killed by a broken fireplace or a house burned down by a family rich in children. We could have helped them, but you decided otherwise. The government decided to allow public officials to effectively pay off loans taken during the corona crisis by freezing their salaries or even by reducing their payroll funds, which led to an unprecedented cut, i.e. a call for redundancies, made by the Ministry of the Interior last year for the administration. There is less money in the 2022 budget, but it is not possible to raise the salaries of police officers. While a competitive level of pay for police and rescue officers should be ensured from the so-called own resources of the institutions, half of the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board and Rescue Board will have to be made redundant by 2025. Good Riigikogu! When the Social Democrats headed the Ministry of the Interior, 45 regional policemen were brought back to rural areas. How many of them are left today? This is a question for the Minister of the Interior. How many cops have been able to find lately doing traffic surveillance, patrolling the street? You indicated in your report that confidence in the PBA has slightly decreased compared to 2020. It may be expected that there is a connection here with the demonstrations, media coverage and so on associated with the corona apandemia. But perhaps it also expresses the resentment of those people who have had to update their identity documents and have seen them mocked by the state. Twisted slots make people ask for a day off at work to update their documents. You have made recommendations for people to apply for a document online and book an appointment in advance. But unfortunately, I have to bring you back from the virtual world to earth. Sequences for the appointment times to be booked offer successful competition for specialist appointments, in some cases exceeding them. Even a sequence of fingerprints and document photos can last 30 minutes. The receipt of a document in a live order cannot be left at an afternoon time. I have seen the people who came to the service hall know that the numbers will no longer be issued because it is not clear whether they will be able to serve them by the end of the day. You can ask for half an hour before the customer service closes - it was a recommendation for these people. Another suggestion I heard was that you try asking yourself off early tomorrow, maybe you'll be lucky. But if you don't, will the third-fourth-fiveth day off be asked to complete and receive your documents? Finally. Today, we keep the system together because many people are betting as volunteer policemen and rescuers. But at the same time, inflation in Estonia has become very high, seriously threatening the livelihood of households, and more and more people are thinking about how to make ends meet. Volunteering is in the background for many. Beautiful goals are not worth it, or they are not willing to pursue these goals. It is important for the social democrats that people working in the field of internal security receive a decent reward for their work and that our people should not be reminded of the Soviet order of the days. I very much hope that next time, Minister for the Interior, you will be more successful in the negotiations on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U365	I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U366	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank the Minister of the Interior and the Internal Security authorities for what they have done. The Reform Party Group commends you and is convinced that the strategic direction and framework for development in this area has been correct. I repeat here the state of the society aimed at internal security, where the people of Estonia feel that they live in a free and secure society, where everyone's value, involvement and contribution to the security of the community create a safe state, improve the living environment, reduce the risk to life, health, property and constitutional order, and provide quick and expert assistance. It can be said that the Ministry of the Interior is effectively moving towards the goal. The year 2022 brought challenges to the design of a secure Estonia, which were difficult for the authors of the strategic document to anticipate at the time. Today's action is in reality as litmus paper. In a situation where the milestones in the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" have brought reality closer in time, dynamic response, as well as finding resources, will give the government a positive rating. Balanced action on our power structures to respond to the risks raised on 9 May demonstrated the strength of internal security and the professionalism of the people working here. It is the duty of all of us to value, motivate and maintain people who contribute to it. It was with the final vote on the previous item that we improved the social guarantees of the special services and harmonised them. Wide-spread national defence has entered the implementation phase of a theoretical approach. Strengthening internal security capabilities and raising the priority of protection of the population is a confirmation of this. With the support of the additional funds available, we can address a number of concerns and take a number of good steps forward to strengthen the country's preparedness. The construction of the Estonian state border and the strengthening of border guards are clear tasks in their importance today. In today's security environment, border protection is an issue where we, the Riigikogu, also need to take steps to clarify the legal space. Real activities have been launched to protect the population, especially in order to better manage the Estonian people in crisis situations, including during wartime: early warning systems, preparation of shelters, as well as informing the population and risk communication. The active role of the Rescue Board in advising and training local authorities to improve crisis preparedness is an essential element of broad-based national defence. It is important to stress that one of the cornerstones of achieving the development goals is the promotion of voluntary work and NGOs, the strengthening of the so-called security network. More than 4,000 volunteer police officers, rescuers, marine rescuers, as well as the helping hand of the public helpline provide a wide range of support for internal security. Finally, I confirm that the Reform Party Group has maintained the priority of Estonia's internal security, and we will certainly do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U367	Thank you. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner. Traditionally eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U368	Then there won't be any more trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U369	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U370	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I thank the internal security staff for the contribution they have made to the Estonian people and the state. However, I think that today's government has not contributed enough to the area, neither to the development of the field nor to those people who are doing a very grateful job. Let's look at these problems a little bit. I also addressed my question to the staff, the good people who work on a daily basis. We have problems, Minister, also in the Rescue Board, we do not always have a full number of rescuers, there are two or three people, if there should be four or five. There's actually been some serious consideration about the contraction of the commandos. It's been avoided by reducing the number of rescuers. So this is reality. On the police side too, there is a very correct target of 1.2 Estonian average wages. Of course, this should be guaranteed, but unfortunately this year's state budget was, in my view, a very clear failure. These funds were not allocated, they were not available, and then staff were pulled together. True, last autumn we did not yet see the security crisis that we have today, but at the same time we clearly felt that it was going to be a crazy year. After all, there were border incidents on the borders of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. It's all been there. We were aware of Russia's aggressive action. Our good partners pointed out that the situation was changing, but we did not contribute enough. We didn't bet enough. Yes, one could say that it is better late than never, and now the additional budget package has tried to strengthen broad-based national defence, which is certainly good and I will come to that. But I will also open the same example, which also concerns the difference in salaries within the police at the same workplaces. You said that in Ida-Virus and Harjumaa, the premium is paid in comparison with the policemen working in other areas and doing the same work. The result? The result is that Rapla, Rapla County, has become a training center. The policeman works for one, two, three years, and then, since he has the same land to work, of course, he goes to work in the Harju area. Ask if you don't believe me. The result is that our very good [policemen], such as our precinct, where Järva[land], Janno Ruus, an excellent policeman, is simply pushed into the tank and must start again. Once again, we have to start over with the topic of where to get these people for this salary. It's not fair, it's not fair to people in Rapla County, we're not secondary [people compared to people] in Harjumaa. It should end on a daily basis. It also disrupts police communication, and this is very bad practice. Just as it is embarrassing, in fact, how we have organized personal identification documents. In eleven of the 15 county centres, the [service point] is only open for three days and the queues are very, very long. They were long before the refugee crisis, but the refugee crisis has not opened [service points for a longer period] either. Well, there are embarrassing examples of how long people have to wait. Why are you doing this? Why is there no money allocated to this in an additional budget so that at least now [to] make it normal to deal with documents? It's literally a mockery of rural people. As a good colleague of the Social Democrats has described, I, too, have taken the button and it has been turned, saying that I do not understand, well I do not understand how and why such a thing has been done. This must be very, very bad. You can say a few words of praise between here and there. It is good that there is a clear plan to build the eastern border. I believe and hope and wish for strength that this will go exactly as you have planned. This is very important for ensuring Estonia's security. But on the other hand, for our broad-based security, we're getting a certain amount of resources for very important activities. I very much hope that this year the government will come up with two drafts that do not require money, but which deal with the building code and the planning law. There, too, the same issues relating to wide-ranging security that are not there in essence need to be resolved. We need to start thinking today about building shelters and shelters, discussing all these issues in this hall, in the municipalities, with the whole nation. If we don't do it today, we'll come back again, I don't know, five years from now, and we'll lay out our hands that you see, we'll be here again. Good Finns, they've done it. We're not talking about the Swiss either. Despite being at the heart of Europe and being at no risk to them, they have dealt with this issue through the ages and have done very well. Let's set an example! This is a place where we can contribute so that we should not add important budgetary resources either. Finally. In this Chamber, we have discussed the issue of donation, how to make sure that we have more donors so that we have a wider charitable civil society, and we have also had long discussions here. But again, there has not been what has been repeatedly said in this hall, and these very great donors have said that you should make a tax exemption, increase what has been given today. Believe me, no human is donating so he can get his income tax back, but it's notice. In terms of internal security, spotting is crucial. It can also be extended to a very, very large number of other areas. Time's up, we couldn't talk about drugs, but we have enough challenges there, too. So I wish you the strength to solve these problems and concerns and to make a safer society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U371	Thank you. Dear Ivi Eenmaa, do you have a procedural question? [[A voice from the hall.]] Thank you. I now request the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu Chair, Kristian Jaani.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U372	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for a very good discussion and for a lot of constructive thoughts. I also thank you for the criticism and also thank you for the praise. That is the driving force, but I do consider it important to clarify some things. First of all, the Social Democrats have highlighted the "Home Fire Safe" programme, which is not going to continue this year. As a matter of fact, it continues, this program continues, it is a very necessary program. Yes, I admit that in the beginning there was indeed such a decision, but from the moment it was clear what budgetary opportunities we still had, the first decision I had was that it was one programme that would definitely continue. So the "Home Fire Safe" program continues. Just in case, it's important. I definitely wanted to say it here because otherwise it would sound the other way around. There has been a lot of talk about service halls. I agree that some of the queues have been longer in the service halls. Let's look at the length of the queues. The length of the order depends on the fact that if a person wants to apply for time in the e-environment, go to the service hall to do something physically and the same service is available in the e-environment, the order is long. So if you have the chance to do something in the e-environment, but you want to go physically, then really, this automated system will put you in a long line so that you can do it in the e-environment right now. Of course, we want to be more flexible. Digital self-service kiosks We want to expand it, next year we want to pilot, and we want to go further with it. From waiting times, by the way: the first free time of receipt of the document in the e-service environment is tomorrow, for example, you can go, there is a little more in Tallinn. But the days off are tomorrow-the day after tomorrow, so there are really those possibilities. Indeed, the availability of documents must be made more flexible. Yes, we have already had procurements to find both domestic services and, for example, a service provider in third countries. Indeed, there would be a situation in which a person does not have to go to the service hall to receive a document, but again, for example, the information point of a shopping centre will be able to receive his or her identity card or such [document]. We are moving in this direction, the real steps [have been taken], the procurements are now outside, the national service provider wants to get by the end of this year, get the service running, with third countries maybe take a little more time. In third countries, there is a plan to use courier service, for example, in America. If an Estonian citizen lives in America, for example, wants a document, then in the future the courier will take it to his door. In Estonia, too, we want to switch to the courier service, but already within the framework of the ID-2 procurement, i.e. in a two-year perspective, we want to switch to the courier service quietly, but before that, it would really be just an external service provider. The work of the service halls has also been influenced by the fact that, for example, the number of requests for travel documents increased by 65%, more than our forecast. That was after February 24. The Estonian people requested 65% more travel documents than our forecast, which once again led to a very high load on the service halls. But I want to say that we are really working very hard to make it more flexible, more e-environment, because our future goal in the whole process of applying for and issuing documents is still very, very much precisely the e-environment in order not to expel people from home, rather than to drive them into a service hall. On the other hand, the fact that we have reduced opening hours in some places has been, on the other hand, a goal that has been to change people's behaviour, to use more e-government services. Finally, as a matter of fact, we have not reduced any of the rescuers of the command level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U373	Dear Minister of the Interior, thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. Once again, I would like to thank all the fellow Members who contributed with questions and opinions to the presentation by the Minister for the Interior of 2022 on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" [in the debate]. I thank the Minister of the Interior, I also thank the Ministry of the Interior for this presentation. This debate is closed and the fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U374	We will move on to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the law amending other laws. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U375	Thank you. Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed the preparation for the second reading of the draft Law on the amendment of the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws at the meeting of the Monetary Commission on 2 May. The discussion was attended by Thomas Honourable, Deputy Head of the Financial Services Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Marit Maidla, Adviser to the Financial Services Policy Department, and Kertu Fedotov, Adviser to the Insurance Policy Department. Representative of Estcape Asset Management OÜ Urmas Peiker and Karola Sisask, Member of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority Siim Tammer and Head of the Legal Department Marju Kohv. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 March, with the first reading on 6 April. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 21 April. And the lead committee put forward some suggestions for improvement on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U376	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Now, is there a wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Four amendments to draft 551 have been received, all from the commission and the position taken fully into account. First, second, third, fourth. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U377	We will move on to the seventh item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Economic Commission. Dear colleagues, let me also give you a brief presentation of the procedure for second reading. This is due to § 105 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, there is a second reading presentation by the lead committee and that is up to 20 minutes. The rapporteur may, if he so wishes, extend the report agreed by agreement with the President and shall be based on § 67. Now that this presentation of the commission has taken place, the questions are for the rapporteur and, in this case, we must proceed from § 105 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, which provides for a second reading, and up to two oral questions can be asked here. And then there are negotiations where members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. This was now a brief introduction to the procedure for this procedure, and I am asking for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, but honestly, I got out of my office when the previous waitress came to the remote. Okay. The first reading of this draft law took place on 19 January. The amendments were given until 1 February at 5 p.m. Amendments were received from seven, all from our colleague Henn Põlluaasa. There were ten associated organisations that had been contacted. At the same time there were 17 opinions, so many of them are in the relevant register from which they can be viewed. In fact, there were many more different letters. In this briefcase I made for this bill, I have 43 letters of substance, so the debate was quite awesome. After 1 February, it was necessary to organise the amendments that had been tabled. For this purpose, a table was drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in which all the amendments were divided into four areas: separate airports, separate procedural deadlines, separate access restrictions, plus individual problems as part of the fourth. On 14 March, if I am not mistaken, there was a working meeting that was not included in the minutes. The staff of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and some other agencies, the Adviser Piia of the Committee on Economic Affairs and I, too, took part in this, got an overview of these amendments and how they were aggregated. A total of 16 amendments were tabled. The Commission discussed the second reading on three occasions: 12 April, 3 and 9 May. On 12 April there was an event with which I have never seen equal in the Riigikogu in a quarter of a century. There were 17 organisations involved, with many more people, eight of which were different state agencies, which are related to aviation or are not related, how to say, for example. Six people from the Commission were present, i.e. there was a consensus. On that day, these 16 amendments were discussed, but no procedural decisions were taken. We took some time to think. If anyone wants details, the protocol, which is actually one syrup of what happened there, is ten pages long. If I'm going to rephrase it now, there's probably very few people in this hall who care about it. On 3 May, we already discussed and voted on the amendments. In total, like I said, there were 16. The ten amendments were supported by consensus within the Commission, i.e. by all seven members of the Commission who were present. I mean, with nine consensuses, one was supported in substance and six amendments were not supported. There was also a very long talk around it, and the debate in the Commission on this draft law lasted 1 hour and 40 minutes. And then one amendment was not voted through because two other letters from the organisations involved and the analysis of Sorainen law firm arrived. It was decided that a legal analysis was needed. This was also done and voted on 9 May. Procedural decisions are such that today, 11 May, a second reading, and when it is concluded, the final vote in the Chamber will be held on 18 May. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U379	Thanks, I got it! However, there seems to be one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U380	Good manager and waitress! Interesting to hear about it, but as I understand it, and I've read this destructive assessment of Allar Jõks's total control of the kapo over all those cartmen and all those [who] are sweeping the plane and so on. But I don't remember how you voted on 9 May. Is Jüks's opinion junk, not appropriate or how the result was and who voted in favour of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U381	Is that it? I wouldn't take it upon myself to judge Jõks's opinion, the authority person, and at least he has the right to his own personal opinion. But the main thing was that all the changes that come in is EASA, that is the abbreviation of the English language [name], that is, on the recommendation of the European Union Aviation Safety Agency, and I would say in this way, Peter, that, at this time, no [measure] seems to be too much for a flight to be safe in any case. There were different opinions. Some were talking about bureaucracy and too long a time and that it was not necessary, but others were convinced that if this is the case in European countries, we should have that too. So I guess, to be honest, I'm going to read something out. The law is complex, because aviation standards are very detailed and there are very many. And this "very" is absolutely true and here to focus on every question and look for your position, position... I think because I sometimes use a plane myself, so it's right that if there's any additional security measures that can be adopted, I guess that's what I need to do. There is certainly a need to clarify that there are still some documents that we do not have coordination, and only one of which was mentioned in the Commission is about 1000 pages. This is all ahead of us. This means that we will have more of this aviation law, I think, several and several such debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U382	Thank you for that answer. Looks like it's going to be so that we can't get lucky at first, then we can't stop and it's good that we can go through all these questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U383	Good manager and waitress! By the way, we haven't even reached our pilots' 0.2 prom yet, but this Allar Jõks analysis, Soraainen's [analysis] analysis, it's actually worth reading to colleagues, it's still quite harsh. And when you say that you voted, but you didn't tell me how the result was, as I understand it, Sorainen must have got a wolf pass. But it says here that, compared to other countries, the over-intensive background check that is being given is not available, and that this poor cart pusher can't hand it over himself, but through brokers who see his sexual orientation and his Facebook account address and everything else. That's very interesting literature. And I'm still asking you if Allar Jõks and Sorainen don't know what he's writing in other countries. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Who came up with this high-intensity control? Has it come from somewhere in Europe, or is there a homeland...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U384	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U385	That is certainly the European norm. I mean, how do I say it? I have already said that if there is anything to do with aviation and if there is [doing something] and those who have a lot more experience than we do recommend one or the other security-enhancing rule to stick to, I agree with that. I'm about to say that this law is so specific, it's so hard to break through it, but there are things that seem to be more or less normal using normal human logic. When I had to understand and think about the procedural deadlines, when I had to think about where I was basically on the side of the airport restrictions, I did not have any doubts about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U386	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U387	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Commission waitress, I'm not an expert in the field either, so I'm about to say that the question may seem strange to you. I have not read the ten pages of the minutes either, but you have participated in a meeting on which you have said that this has not been recorded, as well as at the meetings of the Commission, and you know that representatives of the NGO Viljandi Airline Club also addressed the Commission with their opinion. Suddenly you talk a little about what was or was not taken into account in their [opinion].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U388	This is Amendment 1, I think. I mean, I have this stack of papers in front of me, I think I remember correctly that this organization was practically out with the same opinion as Mr. Põljaas, to leave it, if I'm not mistaken, § 311 or § 34, as in the current law, that it was regulated like everything. And then it came from the MKM representation that it wasn't analyzed enough and so on, and so on. So we had to make some choice in that committee. And one more thing I forgot to say: Mr Põllea put forward seven amendments, but quite a lot of letters from the organisations involved came through my colleagues from the Commission, Mr Hunter and Mr Seeder. That means they took on the transmission of these letters.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U389	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Now, is there a wish to open negotiations? I can see the wish of the negotiations, so I will open the negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa. Please! How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U390	Let's see. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't have wings and I can't fly. But I've flown a lot. I'm also a member of the aviation support group. So I'm not a bird, but I'm sympathetic to aviation. At first reading, we discussed how pilots can take off with 0.2 prom. By the way, it's even cooler for the navigators. If you're not a scooter brother, you can do the same thing with 0.2, but if you're a navigator, you can do 0.8. Well, the motorbike with 0,19 if it goes to 0,20, it's gonna get really bad. That's it. So there are differences, whether you're in the air, on the ground or in the water. But the alcohol is still one and the person is still the same. Whether he weighs 85 kilos, for which 0,2 means one small beer or one glass of wine or one supple vodka, but if you're 65 kilos, the smaller man, as many pilots are, is a bit different. But I'm not talking about alcohol at all. Although, really, taking air feels like it's getting easier on your head, but it's already connected to air pressure and other physiological things. But really interesting is what I was referring to here on this bill. Yeah, really, I think what I'm still here or what we're gonna be doing here, first of all, your life is sweet to everyone. Misha, me, and all [the others], for we cannot fly personally, have not glued feathers to ourselves, as some once tried to jump out in ancient times. We depend on the pilot and hope that he has no more promille than 0.2, by the way, Finnair and Lufthansa and many [others] do and do. More and more are being caught, they're taking out pilots who've taken two genies down with a team and some beers besides that. These examples are actually quite a lot, I am not going to talk about the Russian Aeroflot, but about Finnair, and quite recently. But what's interesting is the so-called background check I was referring to. I recommend to all colleagues who have not bothered to read it, about a ten-page analysis by Mrs Jõks, which gives a destructive assessment of this and is based on what we do not want to hear in this Chamber. If you remember, the former Chairman of the Supreme Court assessed the annual report of the Minister of Justice Lauri, our work, the quality of our production for the previous year. And there, in Mr Pikamäe's analysis, 90% of the production that we are [doing] here is our production, our billings, does not comply with the Constitution. I repeat: 9 out of 10 drafts do not comply with the Constitution. But in all ten cases, there is compliance with European Union law. And the former chairman of the Supreme Court wonders how this is possible in the 30th year of independence. The fact that we are [complying] European law, as it were, is like an elementary one. But we happen to be a sovereign state. And compliance with the Constitution, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter at all! Now, if you come to Jõks and this analysis of Soraainen that I'm talking about, I'm quoting here. As I understand it, the Committee on Economic Affairs thought that Sorainen did not really share anything or that it had to be said that he was doing a haltura. But what does he write? Writes, for example, I repeat again that there are extremely intense interferences in people's fundamental rights when given no control option, and actually is, as he says, not to the 1700s... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, thanks, if I could have a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U391	It'll be a few minutes. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U392	Three.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U393	Three? You can't have three anymore, but you can have 2.40. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U394	He says it's a reinforced background check that needs to be performed very thoroughly, it takes a lot of time, and you have to write down the passwords for your Facebook and other electronic accounts, you have to tell who you live with or have lived with, what your sexual orientation is. It's been held for ten years. And it's not the airmen, it's the people who carry you or our bags, they're fueling the planes, all the service personnel. But I stress, I don't argue with that, of course, life is sweet and I can't fly. I can't, Misha can't. None of us can. We'll just drop when the plane crashes. The background is, Jõks says here that, actually, compared to other countries, this background check is over-intensive. I repeat: compared to other countries. And now that Misha has said here that it has actually come from somewhere in Brussels and is not made up by our officials, I wonder whether the Jõks is not adequate or Sorainen. Or what's going on here, right? But the important thing is this, and not only that he doesn't have these persons in relation to... Oh, yeah, and then ten more pages have to fill out the form. And, as I read, here the Commission has made some progress: now it is not ten pages but six pages that have to be completed. A hat in front of the Committee on Economic Affairs, four pages of this kind of data could be taken down from there. That's a good thing. This is particularly the case, and this is not only for persons, but also for employers, who say that this is not equal treatment compared to their colleagues in other countries between which aircraft are moving. They're being put in a worse position. I can't read all this, but ten pages of nice text points, it's about this law. But I stress, I can't fly without the help of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U395	Good waitress, your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U396	Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U397	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to say a few words. The committee, however, took the letter from Soraainen and the chairman of the committee proposed that it go to our Riigikogu [Kantselei Legal and Analytical Department] in order to obtain the assurance that there is no conflict with the Constitution, and we received this assurance from our Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu [Kantselei]. And when it comes to filling out forms, going to one country, where you've definitely all been, isn't six, it's not ten, it's 30 pages by memory to be filled in to get to the United States. Even if you are a member of the Riigikogu and you have been checked ten times already. So sometimes these things happen, there's nothing to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U399	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. There's no answer. I'm closing the negotiations. Now, good colleagues, we are at the revision of the draft 477 amendments. The first amendment, from the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. The second amendment, from the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. The third amendment, from the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. The fourth amendment is not from the lead committee, it is from Henn Põllea, the lead committee's position: to consider the substance. The fifth amendment is from Henn Põllea, the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can't refuse to praise your eloquence. Good job. But on behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to put this fifth amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U401	Thank you. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by Mr Põlluaas. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U402	With the result of 13 votes to 41 and 1, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by... Paul Woodland, procedural question. You got ahead of Rene Coke. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U403	Thank you. This question was currently put as if this amendment had passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U404	I said that this amendment was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U405	Yeah. That was the wrong conclusion. In view of the position of the matter, the wording of the question and the outcome of the vote, this amendment has gone through.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U406	It didn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U407	Yes, it did. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U408	Well, now we can... Here we go. Please, Kalle Grünthal, procedural! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U409	Thank you, Mr President. If you now recall a little bit of your use of words, how you set it up, then in fact this vote gave the result that the Chamber supported the proposal. Those who voted 'no' voted 'in favour' of the draft should be supported. Unfortunately, that was the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U410	Thank you. I do not know, I also rely here on my brief experience that Amendment 5 was an amendment that was wanted to be voted on. The position of the commission was to be disregarded. I voted on Amendment 5, which was 13 in favour and 41 against. Consequently, this amendment was not supported. It's the way this house is lived, maybe it's the wrong way. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U411	Thank you, Mr President. However, unfortunately, your explanation does not coincide with the wording put to the vote, so to speak. I suggest you take a five or ten-minute break, check it out, and then we'll see who's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U412	Thank you. I'm not taking a break right now. Okay. Kalle Grünthal, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U413	Look, the point is, Mr President, that we have just voted. Okay. If there is a moment of dispute now, this dispute must be resolved, because we must be clear whether or not this amendment was supported. And exactly how you put it to [vote]. [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Do you understand? I mean, we can't move forward until we've solved this point of dispute. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is not my fault that you formulated this moment a little differently when you are accustomed to formulating it. But since you put it this way, let's take a look at this thing, we can't move on until we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U414	Thank you. But I don't see a problem here. I say once again: I put Amendment 5 to the vote and 13 in favour and 41 in favour, so the amendment was not supported. A procedural question, Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U415	Good manager! If we look, really, we need to review its wording, because, in terms of wording, as it actually sounded in this Chamber, I followed that wording and the result was the opposite. You may have had a different idea, but it turned out quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U416	I don't have that chance, but I'll take it once. But what did you hear, Mr. Woodland? A microphone for Mr. Woodland, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U417	Thank you. As a result of this vote, the Chamber supported the amendment. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U418	For the third time, I supported 13 members. Had it been less than 13, by my mathematics, 12, it would have been supported, but against 41, well more than half. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U419	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the hall understood exactly as you did, and it seems to me that Mr. Pulpland actually got it. He just thinks that maybe this wording wasn't exactly what he's used to. That's why I wouldn't recommend a break, because it doesn't change anything. However, I think you can consider and answer the Chamber whether or not a new vote is allowed. After all, the break does not change anything, but if a new vote is possible, in order to get rid of Kalle Grünthal's speeches, it could be done. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U420	Thank you. No way, the hammer's banged, and there's no way. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U421	Thank you, good Chairman! I think we should check him out, because sometimes a decimal is quite important, as we already know from childhood. And here it remained that either the Commission's decision was rejected or Amendment 5 was voted. This is the part where what you had in that wording, because the previous text before the vote was that the Commission's [decision] was disregarded, and this is where it can be interpreted that parts... Well, as the Commission proposes to reject the draft and how the large hall will decide. It's a matter of interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U422	Thank you. No, I don't think that's a question of interpretation at all. You came into the hall, a lot of people were in this hall, some came in. And I put Amendment 5 to the vote. I said that it has been presented by Henn Põlluaas and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. I said: please take a stand and vote. I think that's the way the manager's been acting all along. At least I'm telling you from my own experience. And it is always more procedurally protested if we do not say who has the amendment, or if we do not say what the position of the commission is. That's how it's been here in my experience for ten years. Oudekki Loone, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U423	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that, in fact, you have the right to put to the vote amendments, not any proposals from the commission of directors or any arbitrary matters. If, by chance, you said something wrong, would that mean that the previous vote was simply trivial and we have not voted on this amendment? And in that case should we vote again on the amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U424	Thank you. We voted, the last vote was on Amendment 5, and there is no turning it back. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U425	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Oudekki Loone that we should no longer have to vote because the President put it to the vote and the vote was confirmed after the hammer. There's no turning back here. If someone says we've voted wrong, there can be no such thing. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] However, the problem is that, in my opinion, and because, let's say, a whole line of people just reacted from different ends, not to mention you deviated from your usual wording when you put it to the vote, and that is what caused this situation. I do not think we can move forward before, because the vote has been taken and there is now a debate about the nature of it. So we still have to make sure. Kert Kingo is already opening a verbatim here to see if it's gone in there. I think it would make sense that this thing doesn't stretch here, then we should take a little break to confirm it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U426	Thank you. I thank you for this proposal, but I see no reason to take the chairman's break. A procedural question, Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U427	Thank you, good Chairman. I did not intend to take a break until the next amendment was put to the vote, but I am just going to help you. Now, I'm asking you to take a ten-minute break when we get there with the procedures so we can get into it in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U428	Thank you. But we haven't gotten there yet, because people here may have problems with microphones. Peter Ernits, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U429	Good manager! I don't have a problem with the microphone, but sometimes there's a problem with the silence. The same thing, too, that the simplest thing is to look at the verbatim. What are we talking about? You can see right there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U430	[[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U431	Yeah, thanks a lot! For the sake of clarity, I ask myself that, in my memory, the representative of the EKRE asked to vote on the amendment, nothing else, and then we voted on it. Did you have a different impression of what you put to the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U432	No. Amendment... Kalle Grünthal, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U433	Thank you. We can, in principle, move forward, because at the moment the dispute is only about which side is right: did this proposal find the hall's support or did it not find the hall's support? So I think that we have no reason to argue about it anymore, because the lot has fallen either way or the other way. And I very much hope that the esteemed Rene Chef will also take a break here, we will be clear on this, and that will not prevent us from moving on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U434	Thank you. I would like to say that I think Rene Koka and I have had good cooperation at various levels and I understood very well what she wanted in Amendment 5, and I am also trying to understand well what she wants in the future. Good fellows! Amendment 6 has been tabled by Mr Põlluaas; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U435	Thank you very much, Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would like to put this amendment to the vote and, before that, I would like to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U436	Please! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U437	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are at the sixth amendment. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by Mr Põljaas. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U438	With the result of 16, 42 against and no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by Henn Põlluaas, position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U439	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I ask that this amendment by Henn Põllea be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U440	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. There's no hurry. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by Mr Põljaas, the position of the commission responsible: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U441	With the result of 15 votes to 42, no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 has been tabled by Mr Põlluaas; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U442	Thank you! On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask that this amendment by Mr Põllea be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U443	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment No 8, tabled by Mr Põlluaas, the position of the commission is to disregard. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U444	With the result of 16, 42 against and no abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the lead committee, position to be taken fully into account. Amendment 10 has been tabled by Mr Põlluaas; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Rein Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U445	Thank you! I would also like to ask for the amendment made by Mr Põljaas to be put to the vote on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U446	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the position of the commission of reference on Amendment 10 tabled by Mr Põlluaas: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U447	In favour of 17, against 42, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by Mr Põlluaas; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U448	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would also like to ask for this amendment by Mr Põllea to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U449	Thank you. Let's do it. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the position of the commission on Amendment 11, which has been tabled by Mr Põlluaas, not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U450	With the result in favour 17, against 41, no abstentions, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. Thank you. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading of Bill 477 is closed and the seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U451	We will move on to the eighth item, which is the first reading of the draft Law on the Government of the Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on the Amendment of Other Laws (Restructuring of the State Defence Investment Centre into a Government Institution). I ask Kalle Laaneti, Minister of Defence of the Riigikogu, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U452	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws, presented before you by the Government of the Republic, aims to enhance the acquisition of material resources in support of the state's military defence, to accelerate the mobilisation of state assets by the emergency management authority during special arrangements and to clarify the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. In order to enhance the acquisition of material resources, the draft provides for the pooling of competence in the acquisition of the necessary resources in the National Defence Investment Centre. Insofar as expropriation and/or expropriation are permitted in addition to the normal acquisition of funds, it is necessary to empower the ICC to exercise public authority. To this end, the RIK will cease its activities as a state agency managed by the Ministry of Defence and the RIK will be transformed into a government agency authorised to exercise public authority, including the obligation to exercise public supervision. In addition to bringing together the competence to acquire assets in the IKK, the IKK is transferred to the planning coordination responsibilities, which are also linked to ensuring the operational capacity of the facilities managed by the IKKK. By concentrating tasks on the IKIC, a coherent overview of the material resources available in the country will be created, allowing better planning of their deployment, and providing an overview of the resources available. On the other hand, companies with military protection facilities or persons affected by defence objects will in the future be in contact with a single institution. This will speed up the search for the best solution for national security. The preparation and implementation of rapid and compact solutions is particularly important in today's security situation, where the threat of armed conflict is the greatest of the times of re-independence. As a result of the transfer of tasks related to the assignment of burdens, the Defence Resources Board, in short, will retain the KRA to organise the records and recruitment of human resources related to military defence. The concentration of similar activities in a single competence centre also reduces the number of overlapping activities. For example, when coordinating planning, the Ministry of Defence no longer has to ask the opinion of the RKI whether the planned object may affect the performance of the Defence Forces object and so on. In the Ministry of Defence's view, the policy-making process will improve as some of the operational activities will be diverted from the Ministry. As a result of the pooling of topics, the authorities can channel human resources to the core tasks and the result of this synergy is to increase preparedness for military defence. Seven different laws are amended as regards changes in the functions of the agencies. As a second amendment, I would point out the relaxation of the requirements for the redistribution of state assets. Reallocation of state assets is one of the tools to ensure that institutions involved in the settlement of special schemes have the necessary resources. Rapid use of resources will allow a rapid response and reduce the possibility of an event expanding. It should be noted here that the funds are not only movable property but also state-owned land. Under the current rules, the mobilisation of state assets is permitted only with the agreement of the asset manager. Such a requirement is not applicable in situations where the introduction of an asset is urgent. At this time, contact with the asset manager may not be possible. For example, the use of land to maintain the resources needed to deal with the flood and to manage the evacuation. In such an urgent and unavoidable event, the property may be used in the future before an agreement has been reached with the manager of the property. In addition to speeding up the take-up of state assets, the government will be given the opportunity to specify the arrangements for compensation for losses related to the use of state assets between the owners of state assets. The third amendment to the draft concerns the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, as laid down in the Government of the Republic Act. The Riigikogu is dealing with a bill that adds to the tasks of the Defence Forces the surveillance of the maritime border and the detection and eradication of marine pollution, which was the task of the Police and Border Guard Board. Consequently, the draft also provides for the relevant area of responsibility to be brought to the administration of the Ministry of Defence. The RIK is also added to the list of institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Defence. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I propose to support the draft as it relates to developments in military defence and takes account of the established security situation today. If the honourable and honorable Riigikogu adopts this law, the date of entry into force would be 1 September 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U453	Thank you. We can start with questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U454	Good manager! Good minister! The whole picture or thing is reflected like a piece of a bottle, and I'm coming back with that little problem I've been turning to you on a long time ago. Five good Estonian men donated their weapons, good weapons and ammunition so that they could be delivered to the men in Ukraine who are waiting for this for the second month. The weapons are in the War Mountain, the storehouse of Suur-Sõjamäe 32, waiting. The brothers donated their weapons in agreement and their colleagues and friends in Ukraine look forward to them, but nothing. My question is, and I hope that when this ICC becomes a government agency, it will go as well. But there is a particular interest, even these men are watching when these weapons and ammunition arrive [in].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U455	Time, Peter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U456	Thank you. I remember very precisely this question when the honourable member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernits, asked me this question for the first time. After that question, I immediately contacted the Minister of the Interior and told him about the problem. He told me he was about to solve it. So his responsibility, he had to solve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U457	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U458	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! How do you assess how long it may be until the CIC can properly take over the execution function from the KRA and carry out these requisitions? KRA's been having trouble performing this function, which is why it's going over here, but how do you appreciate what this time frame might be so they can fix it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U459	Thank you for that question. If the honourable Riigikogu adopts this law, the entry into force will be 1 September 2022, and I am more than convinced that the ICC will have the ability to deal with much more complex matters, and I believe that after that it will have this capacity immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U460	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U461	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. Yes, indeed, I also sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior, and some time ago the Secretary of the Interior sent me a letter, I sent it to these men, but I can't find it fast right now. The point was to chew the grass. The weapons are not in the hands of the men, the Ukrainian men are waiting, we have armed Ukraine with many hundred million hats! But now the little thing, the civil initiative, the men who would still give weapons to specific men in Ukraine, has become a fool. And this letter, they said [about it] like that, well, I'm not gonna say what they said about that letter from the councillor of the Interior Minister. So a little concern, perhaps trivial in addition to the world revolution, but I think the actual attitude is reflected in this piece of bottle.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U462	Thank you. Yes, it is very difficult for me to comment on it, I have not seen this letter, and I do not know exactly what it is that the error there is [given] why we cannot legally resolve these issues. Practically take these weapons and ammo, I don't know if there's any ammunition there, this real logistics RKIK, shouldn't be a question. The ICC has been very successful in moving different military aids to Ukraine, so this cannot absolutely be an obstacle. Rather, it is, I imagine, in some legal nuances. That's my opinion, but I haven't seen the letter, it's very difficult for me to comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U463	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. We will then proceed with a co-report from the National Defence Commission. Please, Heiki Hepner!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U464	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 18 April of this year, but before the draft was initiated, it was already presented to the National Defence Committee on 5 April, when Magnus-Valdemar Saar, Director of the National Defence Investment Centre, Ivar Janson, Head of the Procurement Department, Katri Raudsepp, Head of the General Department, and Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, and Margit Gross, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before its first reading at its meeting on 2 May this year, where the Minister of Defence Kalle Laanet and Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence Margit Gross participated as the initiator of the draft. A little bit of the purpose of the draft under discussion. The draft provides for the organisation of the National Defence Investment Centre as a government agency and changes the division of tasks within the Ministry of Defence's administration. This will enable the management of assets necessary for national defence to be integrated into one whole and ensure the working capacity of national defence buildings. The Office for Defence Resources, which has so far dealt with, inter alia, the compulsory burden of assets and resources necessary for national defence, will in future only organise services relating to human resources. In addition, an amendment to the Act of the Government of the Republic relating to the interconnection of the fleets is introduced, which provides for airspace and border surveillance and the organisation of marine pollution response in the Ministry of Defence's area of government. It will also make it more flexible and faster to transfer state assets and temporarily put into service to an authority that needs it to support or organise an emergency, increased defence capacity, martial law or mobilisation or demobitisation. The explanatory memorandum states that due to the changes, the sectoral situation in Estonia will increase and the ability to react quickly to the security situation in Europe and the world. Some words about procedural decisions. At its meeting on 2 May this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the Riigikogu agenda for the first reading on 11 May and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading. I was appointed rapporteur for the draft committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 10 a.m. of 23 May this year. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U465	Thank you. I don't see any questions, so we can open negotiations. And I don't see the wish for negotiations either, so I'm gonna finish the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to stop reading draft 590. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 a.m. of 23 May this year. Eighth item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U466	Let's go to item number nine. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act and related amendments to other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please! How many changes did you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U467	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to this long name initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is due to the standard technique of the draft law, the content of which is amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Yes, now the question is why we come back with this proposal, only one package of changes went from here, but there are reasons for it. On 8 April, the Council of Europe adopted the fifth package of sanctions in connection with Russia's aggression in Ukraine. This package also included sanctions for public contracts. More specifically, a ban was introduced on the award of contracts to citizens, residents and businesses of the Russian Federation and to persons associated with them, falling within the scope of the directives on public procurement and prohibiting the continuation of contracts already concluded with those persons. The fifth package of sanctions entered into force on 9 April, which means that sanctions must already be applied in new public procurement as well as in those that started before that date. In addition, contracts awarded to persons subject to sanctions must be terminated. Although the Council of Europe Regulation imposing sanctions is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union, it does not contain procedural rules on how to implement the regulation, which is why these procedural rules must be incorporated into national law. The clarification is that these standards are already in force because they are directly applicable. However, the Public Procurement Act, as well as the Law of Obligations Act, which deals with the termination of contracts, are too narrow for the correct implementation of the sanctions on public procurement in the fifth package. As European Union law prevails, internal law needs to be amended as a matter of urgency so that sanctions can be correctly and lawfully applied without major problems. Now, in principle or in essence, there are three problems that we are trying to solve with this draft by amending the Public Procurement Act. The first problem, the basis for elimination contained in the Public Procurement Act, according to which an economic operator who is himself or whose representative is subject to an international sanction is too narrow. This exclusion basis is covered by the provision of the Regulation under which no contract is awarded if the tenderer is himself a citizen of the Russian Federation, a resident or an undertaking established there. Two other points are not covered, i.e. where the subject of the sanction is the owner of the tenderer or candidate or the actual beneficiary, or represents or receives instructions from the subject of the sanction. An amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which enters into force on 1 June 2022, states that the contracting authority shall reject the tender if the award of the contract on the basis of that tender would infringe an international sanction within the meaning of the corresponding International Sanctions Act. While this will save the contracting authority from imposing such a condition in future public procurement, first, it will not solve the problem of ongoing public procurement and, second, it is not entirely correct since the rejection of the tender must be linked to the content of the tender rather than to the identity of the tenderer, as required by the Regulation. The sanctions provided for in the Regulation all relate to the identity of the tenderer. They should therefore be included in the grounds for disposal. As a solution to this problem, the draft amends the basis for removing sanctions and extends the application of both this amendment and the amendment which will enter into force on 1 June to public procurement already under way. This means that these provisions will be enforced retroactively. Problem number two. According to the Regulation, contracts awarded before 9 April, where a party is a party to a sanction, must be terminated by 10 October 2022. Contract termination takes place on the basis of the Law of Obligations Act. According to the Law of Obligations Act, it is possible to cancel durable contracts for an exceptional reason. Other contracts that are not long-term contracts can only be withdrawn in specific cases. However, these grounds for withdrawal cannot be applied to the current situation. It may therefore be that the Sanctions Regulation requires the termination of the agreement, but there is no legal basis for it at national level. This may in theory lead to a claim for damages for the contracting authority. On 1 June 2022, an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which allows for the cancellation or withdrawal of contracts, shall enter into force if, during the performance of the contract, the economic operator has a basis for withdrawal. The problem, however, is that not all sanctions in the Regulation are covered by the grounds for elimination and the entry into force of the Public Procurement Act applies only to contracts awarded as a result of public procurement initiated after its entry into force. As a solution, we propose an amendment that amends the basis for lifting sanctions and extends the right to early termination of the contract to those contracts that have been awarded earlier, that is to say, the provisions will be enforced retroactively. Problem three. According to the International Sanctions Act, the Government of the Republic may also impose a sanction on the Government of the Republic to protect the security or interests of Estonia. If such a sanction is imposed in Estonia, this exclusion should also be included in the Public Procurement Act. The current Public Procurement Act does not deal specifically with the sanction of the Government of the Republic. While it is possible to conclude, in the combined interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the International Sanctions Act, that the basis for the removal extends to the sanction of the Government of the Republic, a separate designation of the Government of the Republic sanction is necessary in order to prevent such complex and unnecessary interpretation processes. As a solution, the basis for lifting the sanction and the basis for rejecting the tenders will be amended and added that they will also apply to sanctions imposed by the Government of the Republic. In conclusion, the aim of the draft is to make the application of the Sanctions Regulation as free as possible for contracting authorities and to avoid a situation where the procurement procedure has to be annulled or the termination of the contract is followed by disputes with uncertain end in court. In addition, we have tried to formulate the amendments as widely as possible to cover the sanctions that will be imposed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U468	Thank you. There's a question. Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U469	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Applying sanctions in itself is very right and the clearer the law, the better. You were talking about trying to avoid claims against the contracting authority. However, in many cases, we have public procurements linked to European Union subsidies and this puts these applicants in a pretty difficult position, both in the case of the termination of this contract and in the case of the application or verification of different documents. The State Support Services Centre is very closely monitoring that if you have anything not mentioned, 25% of the support will be taken away like a nips. How can this problem be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U470	Thank you for your question. A topical [question], I have dealt with these problems myself, and such concerns are constantly coming from different contracting authorities. How would I say that? In fact, the State Support Services Centre is based very clearly on both the public procurement directives that have been introduced in the European Union and our Public Procurement Act. These rates, when EU money is at stake, are practically the result of an infringement. Sometimes it may seem excessively harsh, but I have also asked for explanations and I have been told exactly why, which provision has been mistaken. It may seem, at first glance, to a person who does not know all the legal background that this is not a very serious violation, but if we look at it as distorting competition in the context of procurement or even prefers someone even to a lesser extent, then frankly neither the directive nor the Public Procurement Act provide for a different rate. That's exactly what's gonna come up. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. So with the procurement, how to say it, everyone has to work. Making purchases isn't so easy. We have a framework for this, and we are, of course, proactively also trying to train and train those who participate in the procurement, with the help of the Public Procurement Department. There is a need to strengthen competence, because these laws, as well as the European directives, are meant to rule out unfair competition, corruption, anything. And these are very precise rules. The State Support Services Centre is based on the fact that the next instance is the financial audit of the Ministry of Finance. And then the RTK will be punished if it hasn't followed the relevant stick exactly in these procurements.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U471	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U472	Yeah, thanks! No, I don't blame RTK for that. In fact, it is also quite a number of cases of completely formal violations. That's what the Rectors' Council has told us here, the municipalities have told me, the NGOs have told me. Well, in essence, there is no distortion of competition or anything. True, there is a word not mentioned or [something like that]. And what my question comes from is, in fact, I am now quoting the explanatory statement: "It must be borne in mind that, in the absence of any doubt as to the absence of an international sanction, the contracting authority is not obliged to ask for any evidence in addition to the confirmation. Only if the contracting authority has doubts [---]. " And now there is a question of interpretation. In one case, if there is no doubt, and another, if there is doubt. How do you prove it? Someone will come and take 25%, which could be hundreds, thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U473	Thank you for your question. In fact, it is not very easy, as with all sanctions, to identify precisely the circumstances of exclusion that are here. But I'll tell you, there's nothing to do. These sanctions must somehow be enforced within the legal framework. This is where the contracting authority can prescribe what the contracting authority is required to submit. And if the contracting authority has not submitted such items, it can exclude the procurement afterwards if such circumstances arise. So the responsibility of the contracting authority will be reduced and clarified. So it's the one who's in charge of the procurement. It must submit its own exclusions and if it does not do so and they appear, it will be removed from the procurement and this procurement will be cancelled. It is not up to the contracting authority to cancel the whole procurement, but to exclude it from one of the contracting authorities, and the procurement can go on, the next best procurement, for example. So you don't have to cancel the whole deal. This is also the important thing that the law now allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U474	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U475	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are talking about public procurement and how to dimm certain things here, but I have a question whether these changes will also help to rule out a situation where, for example, rapid tests are needed in a crisis situation. There are prices that go beyond all kinds of borders, I think, also in the context of public procurement, but they can still be obtained. And then the minister is doing a job, and a few months later, it turns out that these things have been done in the framework of a misdemeanor. How does this bill help us to rule out such situations? I understand that, exceptionally, in times of crisis, certain decisions are needed, but the question is whether this draft will help us further in this context. Or will he help us to think about how we must act in these crisis situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U476	Thank you for your question. I also answered about the procurement at Question Time today. Specific changes concern sanctions resulting from international sanctions imposed in the European Union and sanctions for public procurement. These are general, they are already in force with the regulation that was adopted in Europe. The specific case you referred to does not concern it, but these grounds are all provided for in the Public Procurement Act. There are exceptional cases, but in exceptional cases, the law must be observed. And there is, of course, a little bit of consideration that what is this urgent and so on, but these have to be justified in the procurement. If there is a non-negotiable procurement, it must be very well founded. And then there must be reasons for how many people or entrepreneurs will be offered this offer, and so on, and so on. I am not going to quote the inspection report, you are familiar with it, it was recently published, it was made by the Public Procurement Department on official supervision. It's official supervision. I can just explain it from here, I can't give it to you. So it's official supervision. And as mentioned there, it may be followed by a misdemeanour procedure, but it will be decided by the Public Procurement Department, which carried out the monitoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U477	No further questions. Thank you. Then we'll go to the co-report. Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U478	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government on 2 May this year. And that's urgent. The Commission discussed the draft immediately the following day, 3 May. At the meeting of the Commission, the minister presented the draft in exactly the same depth as he did here. The Commission adopted procedural decisions to appoint Mr Jüri Jaanson as the representative of the lead committee, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 11 May this year and to propose that the first reading be closed. All these decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. So much more from the Commission's discussion that the Minister was first asked about the title of the draft and possible changes to it, but this is a technical matter. It was also examined in the Public Procurement Act about the discretion to remove. There is, in fact, no discretion here under international sanctions. It was also examined how a person is still defined as a person, i.e. a Russian company in a particular case. Here Evelin Karindi-Kask, adviser to the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance, replied that the Russian company was a company specifically established in Russia. The sanction is imposed on a Russian entrepreneur, as well as on a Russian citizen, for example, if a citizen is a self-employed tenderer, the award of a contract with him is not allowed. It also includes Russian residents who are nationals of another country. So much for the amendments and the description of the procedure for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U479	Thank you. There's a question. I have a request that you ask slowly, because then the messenger prints this question and the answer is better. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U480	Good manager, thank you. There are many such problems with Ukraine. However, once again, different tricks are being used, and I am not currently talking about public procurement, how to sneak past them. And my question is how solid this current construction is, in fact, in terms of purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U481	Thank you. I think you should have asked the Minister this question, because it is still a matter of substance. My role here is to describe what was happening in the Commission, and I would say that the Commission did not come up with this belief or this question, so that this construction would not be lasting. However, the basis for this design or its changes is the sanctions that have come from Europe and that is why we are taking them over. The package of sanctions will come in succession, and the following will probably come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U482	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U483	Yeah, I'm sorry! That's the answer. I wanted to ask what the mind of the Commission was, but I have already received the answer that there were no doubts or doubts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U484	Yeah. Got it. When you get the answer, you don't have to answer any more. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U485	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Undoubtedly, we must do everything we can to force Russia to end this war, and if sanctions are to be imposed, that must be done, and these sanctions, of course, must also be implemented. And, well, let's just say that Europe has been here too slow rather than too fast. These sanctions could be applied much more forcefully and much more extensively. And, of course, in order for these sanctions to be applied, it will be clear in the house how life should go on the ground, there is a need to adjust the legislation a little bit, and the bill will go into it. But I am marking here this problem, to which I do not think there is a very clear answer at the moment: how to solve the problems with the agreements that are being interrupted and, if it is the European Union's support, how to actually interpret the use of this money. It could have been right here together, so we could all have figured out what it was like. I have nothing directly to blame for the State Support Services Centre. The Minister very rightly said here that they are following their own rules, figuratively speaking, running a line, and if there is 25% behind there, error may be completely formal and 25% of that sum will be deducted. In this Chamber, we have also been talking about this issue the last time we discussed the law on public procurement, and indeed the Council of Rectors brought it up. However, we have not been able to include in our legislation that if the Ministry of Finance, which also deals with public procurement here, also receives an ex-ante assessment from the State Support Services Centre, the ex-ante assessment will be binding. In fact, this problem also concerns municipalities, it concerns NGOs. Figuratively speaking, whom he does not touch does not concern the country because it does not matter whether the money is in the right or left pocket. Here is an example, the very unfortunate [test], or I can't even tell you if these tests were unfortunate, but the process itself had failed. In this case, if it had not been a country, but anyone else, and it should have been a European Union support measure, millions would have been recovered. It was, of course, a gross violation, too, but if there had been no such thing as the one in the explanatory memorandum, that you would not have had enough doubt and you would not have asked for a specific explanation, then even in this case, the money would have been recovered. So there is a problem here and it would be worth thinking about how we would, above all, exclude problems or the recovery of money when we have European Union support measures under which these procurements are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U486	Thank you. There are no more requests and I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 610 be completed and the first reading is completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. of 25 May this year. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U487	The tenth item is the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U488	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you as a substitute for the Minister of Education and Science with amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. There are two changes. The first amendment focuses on the activities of the Non-School Advisory Committee, which is regulated in today's Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in such a way that all children with special educational needs are subject to compulsory and unavoidable evaluation and deviation from it by an educational specialist, social and health specialist. The fact is that children with special educational needs overlap with disabled children in one third of Estonia. Those children who have needed social evaluation, help and support, as well as health, are talking about psychiatric evaluation, have actually received this help and support in another system. This concern, which we have mostly, is the increase in the administrative burden on the public service provider, the various service providers, the Social Insurance Board, both the external evaluation committee and the local government, all of which have a role to play in the provision of services, to assess the child's need for assistance and to take an administrative decision based on it. However, excessive implementation of administrative procedures is the least of the problems. The bigger problem is the burden on parents and children, the winking between different authorities and assessors. The most infuriating thing is that often different assessment processes have been carried out in practical life and on the ground by the same specialists who are contract agents in different fields. Another concern is the overburdening of psychiatrists. We have very few psychiatrists, especially children's psychiatrists, and their implementation should be reasonable and necessary when a child has a serious need for help, so that this psychiatric resource, which we lack throughout Estonia, is not used where it is not really needed. And so the amendment is first of all true for children studying in Estonia, including children coming from Ukraine, to ensure adequate education and this on the recommendation of the non-school counselling team. The recommendation will involve social and health professionals, where appropriate, but should involve educational professionals. This is the first change. Now, the second amendment concerns only children from Ukraine. I am about to say that 34% of these 37039 refugees who have come to Estonia and remain here, as we know, are children. Those are the numbers this morning. 4448 children have started to study in Estonian educational institutions, including early childhood education institutions, and these children have the desire to provide additional post-secondary education, which is not part of the graduate education and is not yet part of upper secondary school studies, but provides the opportunity to study the language during this inter-annual period so that they can go on to regular education. These are the two changes. The second amendment is temporary; it is valid until the end of this year. The first change, which also concerns our own children, is intended to apply on a permanent basis. The entry into force of this draft would be in normal order, i.e. ten days after the publication in the State's Official Journal. This draft does not have specific costs for the admission of children to additional education. On the first point, it is understandable that these costs are already planned, and we are mitigating the situation. On the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research, the Government of the Republic has already decided to grant additional support in the Ukrainian crisis according to the entries of the Estonian Education Information System, i.e. when we have the children of new immigrants on the school list at the beginning of the next academic year, the student's bounty will be awarded to the school. There is no additional need for separate resources in this draft. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U489	And there are questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U490	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I actually have the same question about both of these changes. What is the basis of this analysis? After all, this seems to be a matter of a technical and operational nature. Was it inevitable that it should be regulated at the legal level, the subject of students who are not prepared to move forward in the context of primary school and cannot [go on], that it really must be done at the legislative level by a one-year exception? And the other thing is this team thing. It seems so technical, too. What regulation was there in the past, I don't just have this bill [in hand] that must, in any case, be amended at the level of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U491	Thank you, Priit Onion, for the question. A very important question. The answer is that it is true that our laws in general are quite detailed. Personally, I am of the opinion that the laws could give more freedom of decision, because so perhaps it is an administrative procedure and a decision to consider, even in this case to an external advisory team. Unfortunately, it is true that, in both cases, the following is explicitly stated by law today. In the first case, it is possible to offer an additional year of study only to a student with special educational needs and a lack of language skills is not considered to be a specific educational need. And in the second case, the reason for the PGS is that we have a duty to involve three different specialists in finding a suitable form of study for the student. The law does not give freedom of choice, and this freedom of choice we want to bring in.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U492	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U493	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Such students, aged 15 to 17, who would theoretically come from these students with additional needs, would be under 2000 in Estonia as of May 5, according to my estimates. And I have two questions about that. Is it known how many of these 2000 would be intending to use this measure, whether an analysis or a study or a survey has been carried out? And the second question: wouldn't it be right to offer these students in Estonia this support, preferably so that they can continue online in the Ukrainian education system? Because if we direct our actions to embezzlement of Ukrainian refugees in Estonia, we will participate in the preparation of the post-war demographic disaster in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U494	Thank you. My hope is that there are more than fewer children who wish to use Estonian language. Although, of course, these choices and decisions are for parents to make. In this sense, if children do not choose to study in Estonian, then their parents will make these choices, then the number of children may be lower. My very great hope is that the children of Ukraine, who live here temporarily or in some cases for a longer time, will learn the Estonian language, even if they return to their home country after the war. I think that the knowledge of the Estonian language and the circle of Estonian friends in Ukraine will not harm us. But to answer the question directly, this study has not been carried out, as far as I know, and it would be quite difficult to do in the current situation, because people are still coming here, still making their choices. So we often don't really know what these prospects are. Now, the second question. With regard to continuing to study in the Ukrainian education system, especially in the case of senior classes, this is still the case, and also in the case of a very large number of non-graduate classes or transition classes, so that students can complete their school year in the Ukrainian education system. This will be done by using the possibility of studying across the Internet, with different digital solutions. Further study in Estonia in the Ukrainian learning system is probably part of the choice of families and children, but for those who choose to study in the Estonian education system, we need to create this possibility here. I believe that it is in the interests of both parties, both our people and the Ukrainian war refugees, that we can do so as much as possible in Estonian, and this additional year for studying the Estonian language is a good solution. And I very much hope that Ukrainian students will actively use the immersion camps that the Ministry of Education and Research is organising this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U495	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U496	Thank you. I read in this explanatory memorandum that the implementing provision for additional training is initially intended only for the next academic year, but you said that the change would be valid until the end of the year. We know that these are two completely different concepts in our education system. They also relate to money, the financial year and the academic year end at different times. What exactly did you mean by that explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U497	First of all, I would like to remind you that this bill has no direct link to the budget, because the funding scheme follows the way the students have been included in the EHIS, or education information system, as of November, and according to it, the bounties are actually coming to schools. Now, as far as further training is concerned, the additional education is indeed in the academic year 2022/2023, i.e. it will go beyond the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U498	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U499	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The 4400 kids who are studying, well, there's actually three times as many of them who'll be there right away. It is clear that these children are facing much bigger problems that are likely to require psychiatrist help, not to mention psychologists. And my question. How much have children living in Estonia now been covered by the need for a school psychiatrist and a school psychologist, and how much should it actually be, given the potential need for at least 12,000 children now quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U500	Thank you for your question. In the context of the school, we're talking about school psychologists. And the coverage of school psychologists has been worrying, but it's gotten better year after year. One very good solution, which has been implemented by several local authorities, is to bring together educational support services from school to one single institution. In some municipalities they are still connected to social services. This has also enabled a significantly larger number of schools to offer and organise this psychological service. In Viljandi, for example, as a result of such changes, it is possible to provide psychological services in addition to schools, or kindergartens. But this so-called struggle to have more psychologists working in schools still lies ahead so that we can provide our own children with the best possible services. Now, speaking of the Ukrainian refugee war, the children, I'm going to do a little bit to another bill that is under Riigikogu proceedings. It is an additional budget that actually has 1.2 million psychosocial crisis aids and nearly 800000 [EUR] for trauma therapy and more specific assistance. This is the resource for which we are trying to help these Ukrainian people, including children, whose need for help is greater. We have taken into account that the circa 5% of Ukrainian refugees may need longer trauma therapy at a later stage, about six months after arriving here. And we have also taken into account, of course, that specific help is needed by arounda 20% of people, but it is not such a long-term complex therapy and it does not have to be done by a very specially trained person. All of them need psychosocial crisis assistance, because, as I have said before, psychosocial crisis assistance is primarily about meeting primary needs, listening to people, noticing what is the greatest human problem, and then channelling it to a specific service, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U501	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U502	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is stated here in § 10015 that students who have received a comprehensive school certificate abroad and are not ready to continue their studies or to enter the labour market or to enter the desired educational institution will be admitted to further education. I mean, this additional education would only be available for those who should go to the 10th grade in Estonian school, the first grade in upper secondary school, because they do not have a graduation certificate or they did not get into the desired upper secondary school. Why is it not possible to get this extra year in other classes for students and why is it not possible to get it if the student wants to continue at the same school but just needs help?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U503	Thank you for your question. First of all, as far as other classes are concerned, not this 10th grade progress. The reason is that if you are studying in comprehensive school, you will be studying in primary school and will be able to study Estonian in addition to comprehensive school studies. This transition is precisely the difficult place where you need to enter a new school and there you need to learn more Estonian in order to find a suitable school to cope with. But if, for example, you have entered the fifth grade, you have insufficient language skills, then in any case you will be moved to the sixth grade and you will simply be strengthened by this language training.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U504	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U505	Thank you, good manager. I don't quite understand these years. Are those students who are now in the 10th grade and fall going to the 10th grade not affected, but affected by those who are going to the 9th grade and should go to the [10th grade] next year that they will be granted an extension? Or who exactly is it about? We've got a lot of students here right now. When I read this bill, it doesn't seem to me to concern them who should be in the 10th grade from autumn. But it doesn't seem adequate. And the second question is, in the context of this first amendment to paragraph 1, that it concerns not only the children of Ukraine but also ours. Do we know how many people need this so-called complex solution, and how many people need one, another or three, that we need to change it in any case?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U506	First of all, those who are about to complete the ninth grade today but who have a lack of knowledge of the Estonian language will receive a year of intermission to learn Estonian in order to then move forward at the usual pace of learning. It's meant for them. As regards how many children only need an assessment by an educational specialist, as I said, overlaps in the case of Estonia's own children are compared with personalised data, which we have done with the Ministry of Education and the Social Insurance Board's databases, there is one third, which means that there are one third of children with disabilities, two thirds are children with special educational needs. So from there we can conclude that a third of the children have been valued anyway. And in some parts of children there is either the need for temporary support or the need for simpler support where neither a psychiatrist nor a social worker really needs to be involved. How many of these children are there, it's hard to appreciate. However, when a child is seen to have other potential problems, these assessments will be done as a matter of fact. And certainly, if the parent wishes, these assessments will be done in exactly the same way, although our knowledge of various studies today, including the study of parents of children with disabilities, is that there is rather a desire to have fewer of these assessments. It's a burden on the family and a burden on the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U507	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U508	Thank you. Good minister! You said that this draft law had nothing to do with the budget, but at the same time Minister Liina Kersna in the Commission said that the need had been calculated up to 50000 children. Perhaps if we know that the 50000 children Liina Kersna is talking about are beneficiaries of temporary protection who are expected to have European access to education, which actually says that these beneficiaries of temporary protection must receive this service under the same conditions as nationals of the host Member State. It has also been said here that more will be guaranteed for these children than for nationals of a Member State. It's in this explanatory note. I'm asking you, how big is it? 50,000 children. I think we would still like to know how much these sums are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U509	Thank you very much. I really cannot comment on what was discussed in the committee, but I can comment on the fact that we are talking about 50,000 refugees, not 50,000 children. As of this morning, 34% of children were refugees. Of these 34% are of kindergarten age and 60% are of school age. For school-age children, in turn, we are talking about this transition class for a significantly smaller number of children. And the "more" we offer is indeed an additional year of study to learn the Estonian language. Nothing else is really offered to them. And learning the Estonian language is certainly not only an interest of a Ukrainian child, but, above all, it is an interest of our own society, so that we have people who speak Estonian here, or if the Ukrainian people decide to stay here, their children would study in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U510	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U511	Good manager! Dear waitress, 800000 [EUR] for the treatment of trauma therapy, but my question is now, I was trying to find out a little bit about how many of these trauma therapy specialists there are. It is not simply and it consists of a wide range of specific sub-topics. How many people can use this EUR 800000? And it is important, as I have read, that these trauma experienced [people] are often silent, withdrawn, and must be spoken to. But speaking in Estonian is not enough. My question is, how many specialists are there who also speak Russian, I will not ask about Ukrainian. Is that 0.8 million... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Who's gonna hand it over? Can they even help and how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U512	Thank you very much for your question. Of course, the shortage of specialists is a problem, perhaps so. And this is also one of the reasons why we are trying to develop low-threshold services in the field of mental health. The provision of trauma therapy is not necessarily a service provided by a clinical psychologist, and it does not necessarily have to be a service provided by a psychiatrist. There are quite [a large] number of people in Estonia who are able to offer very different forms of therapy. Our task is to find these people for this same budget allocation, to find out their competence and competence, to provide additional training and also to mediate services. Because in any case, the responsibility is very high for which service providers are exposed to traumatised customers. As for the complexity of trauma therapy, here I really must agree with you, Mr. Ernits. The trauma is extremely complex and this trauma [effect] can be quite long-term if the service is not provided to a person at the right time. However, if a person's need for help is noticed on time and therapy can be started quickly, there is a chance that we will actually erase this person's posttraumatic syndrome from its life in the future. This is certainly our goal for those people who have survived the atrocities of war and have witnessed either battles, killings or, until then, that they have been victims themselves, including rape victims.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U513	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U514	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You are a pretty loud fighter here for equal treatment, but I read in this explanatory memorandum that Member States allow persons under 18 years of age enjoying temporary protection to have access to the education system under the same conditions as nationals of the host Member State, although in this case, the issue of creating additional training is not that conditions are equivalent to those of nationals of a Member State, but that more than the citizens of a Member State are guaranteed, that is to say, Estonian ordinary people are not given additional training. Explain where this equal treatment is left. I don't understand why students who are temporarily protected are given more than locals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U515	Thank you for your question. Estonian children are given additional education in the event of special educational needs and this is quite common, especially for disabled children. And these children, whom we are talking about today, the children of Ukraine, are being offered this additional education because of the lack of language skills. Indeed, children with Estonian native language do not need it. And the European judicial area does not prohibit any more than that. However, we would be faced with a problem if we did not provide education for children. According to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the main things that a child who has entered another country must offer are certainly education and health services. And it is not possible to compromise here either from the point of view of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child or from the point of view of these directives.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U516	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U517	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you about some money. I understand that at the moment, the government is perhaps allocating 500 euros and a little more to local governments per child in school, and the same amount goes with them even when this additional education is being carried out. Or is it like a second sum? And the other side of the question is, if it's the same amount now, how does that money move when a child is written into one municipality but goes to another government of the school? Under the normal conditions of Estonia, this bounty will accompany [the child] and the municipality will pay it to the other municipality. But does the municipality have the right to claim 500 euros from the other municipality or how it has been resolved? It's not gonna work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U518	Thank you very much. The entire financing scheme is on the same basis as we have had so far, as in the case of Estonian children. The place of concern is the registration of the residence of Ukrainian war refugees in the population register, and this is an activity that both local authorities and the Ministry of the Interior are actively engaged in, so that we can get people on the register where they actually live, so that this problem is as small as possible. But the funding schemes are exactly the same as they've always been. [[They're asking for something in the hall.]] Just as it is for our own Estonian children, just as it is for the children of Ukraine, there is no distinction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U519	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U520	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I always want to look at a very broad picture, too, and I still think that a lot of young people in upper secondary school or upper secondary school are studying today, including us, either in evening school or in so-called distance learning. Their main goal is, or because of circumstances, they choose the job first and then try to continue their education. How many of these young people have come now? And how much can we have in our minds? Well, if we still say that the Estonians went to Finland to build too, they didn't want to see where I'm in the middle of this education now, whether I'm going to merge myself into this Finnish education system, so better still three or four years, underfoot, in Estonia, making a company and then everything goes on. Have we discussed [this] also in these calculations, so that we do not place such large predictions on the goals of the target must, of course, always be noble, too large numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U521	I'll be honest with you, I didn't understand the question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U522	You can ask again. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U523	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Beautiful and magnificent ideas. But I have a question. We already have a problem with teachers, there are not enough teachers. Where do you get teachers for these beautiful ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U524	Thank you for your question. A very important question. The Ministry of Education and Research is very active in finding assistant teachers in order to implement them more effectively at school. That has been the subject for some time. Now this need is also much more topical. This is indeed being dealt with. I know schools that have already taken people from Ukraine to work with children with special educational needs who have their own experience and education. I also know local authorities who have taken educational specialists of Ukrainian origin into the municipality to organise students' studies in this municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U525	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the Commission's report. Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Committee on Culture, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U526	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Good President! Indeed, on Tuesday, 3 May, the Committee on Culture discussed this bill. We discussed this as a fourth item on the agenda and the members of the Commission took part in the agenda [within] Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Jaanus Kariliid, who was Aadu Black's alternate, Signe Kivi, Anneli Ott, who was Marko Šorin's alternate, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop and Aivar Viidik, who was Kristina Šmigun-Vähi's alternate. On this item, we had Liina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science in the Commission, and Indrek Kilk, Legal Adviser to the [Ministry of Justice] Legal Policy Department. I'm gonna give you a little bit of an overview of how we had this conversation. First of all, Liina Kersna introduced the draft, on which she said that both of its points were due to the need to support the children of the Ukrainian refugee war. The education system has reached over 4,000 Ukrainian children, it was on 3 May. Today we heard more specific numbers from Signe Riisalo. Indeed, there are over 4,000 children and most of them have entered general education schools. Children have come to Estonia who have graduated from the ninth grade on the basis of the national curriculum of Ukraine and have received a corresponding certificate from there. However, this certificate does not give them the opportunity to go to Estonian upper secondary schools and vocational schools, as our national curricula are different. It is therefore necessary to provide students with a flexible additional year of study during which language learning and fine-tuning training can be provided in subjects that have been identified as lagging behind. School leaders have agreed to recognise curricula in different countries. According to the lawyers of the Ministry of Education and Research, however, this is a law currently in force in Estonia, which deals only with the Estonian national curriculum, and therefore, under this current law, Ukrainian children cannot be offered a flexible additional year of study so that they can enter a secondary school or vocational school. At the moment, only students who have graduated from comprehensive school from Ukraine are affected by the amendment. According to the Minister, there may be a need to return to the subject of the additional academic year at a later stage, as in fact the problem is wider and concerns students from other countries as well. The second amendment to this draft is that I am talking about everything that the Minister of Education in the Commission has told us about non-school advisory committees. According to the current law, the external advisory team must, in any case, involve experts in the fields of education, health and social affairs. However, on the basis of the amendment to the draft, this external advisory team will only involve experts if necessary. The Minister explained that children's psychiatrists, for example, are overloaded and would rather seek advice from one child than from participating in the counselling team. But since the law now states that a health expert must in any case be involved, life has shown that these experts are formally involved. Many children with special educational needs have already been assessed, and this is a formal double. In addition, the child may not need to have a psychiatrist's assessment at all. The Minister stressed the importance of taking into account the needs of a specific child. He described here the whole process, a little more broadly, how this involvement of health and social experts is taking place. He admitted that the burden on the committees was high and that this burden would certainly increase in relation to the needs of the children of war that came from Ukraine. But he said that the corresponding amendment to the draft, which concerns these advisory committees, could remain in force on a permanent basis. The Minister also added that four Ukrainian psychologists will be recruited into the Pathfinder system, who will be helping out-of-school counselling teams to evaluate the children of Ukrainian refugees. Then the discussion started. Jaak Valge, who led the Commission's [session], started and said that he certainly does not question the need for further training, but whether a study has already been carried out or whether there is an intention to do so in order to find out what Ukrainian refugees expect of the Estonian state in more detail. Liina Kersna's reply made it clear that no studies had been carried out or were planned. He simply said that the additional year of study is intended to enable the child of Ukraine to enter the next level of education in Estonia if he or she so wishes. The focus of further education is on language learning, but other subjects will be combined if necessary. Jaak Valge asked whether the next year of additional education should be in Estonia. Liina Kersna replied that no one can be obliged to do this, but additional education creates a prerequisite for further study in Estonia and a secondary school can also be conducted. Jaak Valge advised the Ministry to conduct the study. And if, for example, the children of Ukraine are to pursue their education in the Ukrainian education system, there is no doubt that the need for further education should also be directed in a different way. Liina Kersna said that the additional year of study is entirely voluntary, but however, basic education is compulsory education in Estonia and all the children of Ukraine who have come to us should enter primary education. However, as far as the next level of education is concerned, each young person's own decision and the opportunity to continue studying in the Ukrainian system is also a matter of distance learning. I myself asked Liina Kersna that, as we know, the additional year of study in Ukraine will in any case mean the loss of one year to the child of war. From the perspective of upper secondary school [is] that Estonian children prepare for our upper secondary school for years, but they may not be able to get there. After all, this upper secondary school education is not compulsory and, therefore, receiving upper secondary school is not exactly the kind of thing that Ukraine should somehow allow for war refugees. I asked whether the Ukrainians would be granted separate quotas for the next level of education so that they would not lose this additional year of study. Liina Kersna replied that this was not a lost year, but that this year's training would take place. Kersna agreed that upper secondary school is not a place for everyone to enter. However, he said that the head of school has the right to impose special conditions for students from abroad, and this is a right granted to the head of school by law. In the case of new immigrants, this has also been assessed. If the selection panel assesses that the student's ability to study in upper secondary school is sufficient, but the Estonian language is poor, it will still be admitted to the upper secondary school and will help linguistically either with this additional year of study or on an ongoing basis. He also said that there was an agreement with the mayor of Tallinn that the state would take the seventh to ninth grade of both the progymnasium and the upper secondary school in Estonia's largest municipality and make the children of Ukraine a separate language immersion school from the autumn of this year. Jaak Valge asked if there was any information on the number of Ukrainian children in progymnasium and upper secondary school and whether there was a forecast of how many of them needed an additional year of study. Liina Kersna stated that, indeed, only half of the children of Ukraine in Estonia have reached the Estonian education system by now. By autumn, all these children must be found and brought into our education system. There are currently not many young people in upper secondary school who have reached Estonia. In particular, children from the first to sixth grade have arrived in Estonia. The Minister added that, to a large extent, data exists, and here he said the number that I was asking Minister Riisalo now, well, I suppose it was perhaps Liina Kersna's linguistic or some kind of glitch when she said that the need had been calculated up to 50,000 children. It's written in the record, that's how I read it. Margit Sutrop asked if it was possible to treat students from different vintages equally and whether an additional year could be adjusted for a student who had already started upper secondary school. Liina Kersna then said that the additional year of study can also be applied to children from the military age of the upper secondary school. He also said that this subject of the additional year of study had, in fact, been raised earlier for our own students. The three leaders of state secondary schools to be established in Tallinn have said that they are also expecting young people from Russian-speaking schools who are able to study in upper secondary schools, but their Estonian language may not be enough. Then we can offer them a smoother transition. We should therefore consider how to design this additional year of study in the future, perhaps as such, so that it is also applicable to Russian-speaking students in Estonia. Margit Sutrop added that he supported the opportunity offered in the draft for the first year and also that it could be developed for all. Then the question came about what was going on in vocational education. Liina Kersna said that it is possible to take a career year in vocational education and that young people in Ukraine have already taken advantage of this opportunity. They have been introduced to different disciplines and have also been offered language learning. There has also been some way of directing the children of Ukraine who have received, say, the ninth grade certificate in Ukraine, again to the ninth grade so that they can complete this year according to the Estonian curriculum. But the Minister felt that this did not seem reasonable, as a Ukrainian student already has a ninth grade certificate from his own country. The alternative to entering the upper secondary school on an equal footing with others of course exists, but we all understand that this probability, in principle, they do not speak Estonian, after all, is very small. Margit Sutrop also studied the extent to which Estonian and Ukrainian general education curricula overlap. The Minister replied that they would continue to analyse it. The HTM curriculum department compares curricula and this is, of course, a very intensive work. He promised that as soon as this knowledge came, this knowledge would also be shared with the Committee on Culture. The main difference between the curriculum in Estonia and Ukraine is that Ukrainian children go to school at the age of six and their upper secondary school part lasts for two years. That's the biggest difference. Jaak White continued and said that it would still be very important to know as it is, however, a very big change that students basically need. Liina Kersna said that they have discussed these matters with the leaders of schools where there are already so many Ukrainian children in preparation for the draft that such an overview could be obtained. There is no desire to create new instruments. It is the intention of the Ministry to use existing instruments in the law and to extend them as necessary. Jaak Valge, however, admitted that, on the basis of the children of Ukraine who are already attending school, these figures are in fact still very small, but they cannot make larger forecasts or extensions for all refugees. He still came back to what he asked in the introduction to the debate was whether the studies had been carried out and thought that they still needed to be carried out. But that concludes the discussion. As Head of the Commission, Jaak White proposed to appoint Helle-Moonika Helme as the representative of the lead committee, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 11 May, or today, and to propose that the first reading be closed. Then we started making procedural decisions. By this time some members of the committee had left: Jaak Juske, Jaanus Karilaid, Signe Kivi, Anneli Ott and Üllar Saaremäe, and we made these procedural decisions with those members of the committee who were present there. Firstly, it was proposed to put the draft on the agenda by 11 May 2022, which was a consensual decision. By Aivar Viidik, Heidy Purga, Jaak White, Helle-Moonika Helme and Margit Sutrop. A second suggestion was made: to conclude the first reading. It was also voted in favour of three members of the Commission: Aivar Viidik, Heidy Purga and Margit Sutrop. No one opposed, but Jaak White and Helle-Moonika Helme abstained. It was then decided to appoint Helle-Moonika Helme as the representative of the commission, and the vote was again consensual. All were in favour: Aivar Viidik, Heidy Purga, Jaak White, Helle-Moonika Helme and Margit Sutrop. That concludes our agenda in the Commission, and I have now been brought to you in this debate. I hope it was exhaustive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U527	And if it wasn't, you can ask questions. But it seems it was, because there are no questions. Thank you. We can go to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. Yeah, yeah, I'm waiting. There you go! Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U528	I would like to thank you again for this opportunity and ask for more time immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U529	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U530	Yeah, thanks! I will begin with the words of Minister Liina Kersna that both points of this draft are due to the need to support the children of the Ukrainian refugee war. Perhaps this amendment to the same basic school and upper secondary school law does not actually have any special local benefit, and this has nothing to do with anything that would make our own schoolchildren' lives or our teachers' lives any better or make life easier for those people who have to work for our children's better education on a daily basis. This bill has actually been put on our table by the government to patch up the wound, which is the inability of the government to cope with the situation that they have largely created themselves. In fact, this draft law is absolutely unnecessary in terms of legislation. You remember how a few months ago the same government wanted to abolish the threshold for the final exams in comprehensive school and he wanted to do so simply by order of the Minister of Education. Luckily, it didn't work. However, I am afraid that the officials of the Ministry have not forgotten their vicious plot to dismantle Estonia's excellent and well-functioning education system. It seems to me that this bill, which we are working on today, also serves the same purpose, only it is awfully good to hide it behind the noble aim of helping war refugees. In reality, we see how this sometimes leads to the Russification of the Estonian school, to the new bloom of the Russian schools, which was something we were hoping to quietly turn back, pushing them towards the Estonian language. But let us also give an example: Keila's Russian school, which was intended to be shut down because there was no longer enough Russian-speaking contingent to need it, and this school is now packed with the same Ukrainian war refugees who prefer to take advantage of the opportunity to study in Russian, because our education system allows them to do so. I suggest that perhaps this opportunity to learn in Russian is one of the very important reasons why people from Ukraine chose the country in favour of Estonia when it was to choose where to go in the bid for war. Not to mention that our language environment on the street, in the shop, in the medical system, in choosing jobs is customary and familiar to them, so that Russian can be handled anywhere in this country. Even some of our ministries and municipalities' websites are Russian-speaking. They have all the information they need everywhere in Russian. Even the commercial announcements of shops, or ads, are parallel in Russian. We only deceive ourselves when we talk about teaching them the Estonian language and becoming Estonians as we are. But why should they learn Estonian? The Commission's discussions have also revealed that the large and expensive Estonian language learning programme, which the Estonian taxpayer pays for and which they must undergo as beneficiaries of international protection, is not related to any end-of-life control or measurement system. You're just gonna show up and pretend you're studying, you're gonna get through the prescribed hours, and you're gonna get a letter from that A1 bird. After that, you will continue with Russian anywhere in the public space, because in fact, you can do great in Estonia without the Estonian language. At the store, you will have the same Ukrainian war refugee and speak to you in Russian. Well, why would you erupt with him in Estonian? You get to see a doctor, you have a Ukrainian refugee nurse hired there, and you'll be fine with each other again. As a parent, you have the right to choose the language of instruction for your child, of course you put your child in a Russian-speaking school, where he is taught by a highly educated teacher of war refugees, and still in Russian. You go to work, but the customers are the same Ukrainian war refugees. What language do you speak to them in? Still in the language you both speak, and it is not Estonian. And even if an Estonian should get on the road, he too must have learned the Russian language to the extent necessary. And if not, in the great sense of sympathy and help, in the pain of caring and tolerating, he is still finally taking away the Russian phrases needed to get the service and go to sleep happily at night, that he has helped a poor war refugee to cope in everyday life. Now we already have nearly 40,000 Ukrainian war refugees in Estonia today. Most of these people speak Russian, by the way. The number of speakers of Estonian is estimated to have fallen to 63% in the last two months, which is less than the percentage that was immediately after the arrival of independence, before a large number of non-Estonians arrived here during the Soviet occupation left. But since this migration of peoples is going ahead and to manage and control these processes soon to get out of hand, by the end of the year at the latest, we will no longer have the Estonia we have built for 30 years, the last castle and home of the Estonian people in our familiar and lovely form. And in all of this, we are sadly seeing the Government's desire to take advantage of every opportunity to embezzle in our legislation all kinds of things due to the current circumstances, which are not intended to be changed later on. What country do we still live in, and for whom does this government act? The feeling that it is not for Estonia and not for Estonians is getting worse. In fact, this government's recent practice of lawmaking is unfortunately disgusting. It is destructive to Estonia and against our constitution. The coalition has just returned the Aliens Act to the President in its unaltered state, which in the long term will lead to the sunset of the Estonian national statehood. We are not only being completely legally flooded with people from third countries but, unfortunately, it will not be possible for Estonians to control this process very soon. Coming back to today, it is clear that we are building a country, not our own, but another country within our own country, through our legislation. We are adopting laws in the interests of the citizens of another country. We are adopting laws that give citizens of another country rights that would have been unthinkable some time ago. It's unprecedented. But, unfortunately, it's the handwriting of this government. We are constantly seeing how, taking advantage of the war refugees and giving reasons for the alarming international situation, lawmaking is constantly being pursued, which unfortunately has nothing to do with Estonia's needs, the needs of the Estonian people, our people. We are against this bill. We do not, of course, mind if both general education schools and non-school counselling teams reduce the burden or provide it flexibly to pupils in need, but this is not the main part of this bill. As of May 5, the number of Ukrainian students of whom, theoretically, these persons could come with the need for additional education was somewhere below 2000. And we actually see, in the extra budget, a huge panic, targeted, war refugees-related money-sowing and the same money-sowing that the Reform Party has always denigrated with the children's benefits of our own people and many other subsidies. Therefore, and on account of everything else, I propose that the 611 SE be rejected on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U531	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, and I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the draft 611 be closed at first reading, but the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. That's what we have to vote for, and that's why we have to make a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing with draft 611, draft amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, we are at first reading and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U532	The rejection was supported by 13 delegates, with 37,1 abstentions. The proposal for rejection was not supported. The draft will remain in order. And with the amendments, the deadline for amendments is 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U533	Today's 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Government Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. [Presentation of the draft bill] reports to Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U534	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act. The current Act of the Government of the Republic with the abbreviation VVS entered into force in 1996. The purpose of this draft is to reflect current regulation and to bring the operating restrictions of a member of the government into line with the Constitution and with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. The proposal introduces a number of changes, some of which are certainly of greater and more important importance, while some are perhaps smaller and, above all, practical. The following is certainly not listed in the order of importance, but there may be a certain degree of gravity. First, the limitation on the activity of a member of the Government of the Republic is brought into line with § 99 of the Constitution, according to which the members of the Government of the Republic must not be in any other state office or be a member of the board or board of directors of a commercial company. It explicitly states that a member of the government may not be a member of the board or council of a public limited company, a private limited company or a commercial cooperative, regardless of whether it is a commercial company owned by a private, state or local government. The Constitution does not prohibit membership of a partnership because it does not have a board of directors or a board of directors, does not prohibit an entrepreneur, carries out scientific and pedagogical work, does not prohibit membership of foundations or non-profit institutions. As a result, § 4 (3) of the Government Act is amended and paragraph 31 of the Government Act is added. The latter indicates that in certain cases it is necessary to inform the Government of its action or intention to take action. This concerns other legal persons [in which the operation] is not prohibited, i.e. foundations, non-profit institutions, members of trusts and partnerships. It is also important that the obligation to notify applies when a member of a government acts or intends to act in such associations outside his or her duties. Perhaps it is perfectly legitimate to act on the board of some legal persons as a result of a post and this does not need to be notified separately. Change number two. The restriction to a member of the Government of the Republic following the end of the term of office of a member of the Government of the Republic arising from the recommendation of GRECO shall be added. The aim of the amendment is to avoid the risk of corruption. On 18 March last year, the Government approved, by decision, guidelines for the prevention of conflicts of interest for ministers and their advisers. According to this, after leaving office, the restriction has been in force for more than a year for the company to become a member of the management or control body of its ministry. With the draft, the government proposes to legitimise the same restriction, but in a somewhat more lenient way. The limitation is set for a period of six months, one year in the Guidelines for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and the limitation covers the activity of a private legal person falling within the scope of the Ministry governed by the Minister, when during his term of office the Minister made decisions with a significant impact on the activities of that legal person or when the legal person has contractual relations with the Ministry under his direction. For example, the Minister of Justice may not take up the board of directors or council of AS [Estonian] Prison Industry within six months of leaving office, the Minister of Finance may not go to the board of directors or council of Riigi Kinnisvara AS within six months of leaving office. Thirdly, the regulation on benefits paid at the end of the term of office of a member of the government is amended. The reimbursement shall be made dependent on the time spent in office. If a member of the Government is in office for less than one year, the right to reimbursement shall be limited to the corresponding period of service, but not exceeding six months' salary. If the Minister has been in office for more than a year, the amount of the allowance shall be his six-month salary. It is added that, if the Minister resigns, he or she is entitled to compensation only if he or she has served for at least a year and also for a period of three months. In addition, the draft complements the grounds for non-reimbursement to a member of the government. First, if a member of the government becomes a member of the Riigikogu immediately after his or her dismissal. This concerns both membership of the Riigikogu and the restoration of powers. Second, if a member of the government takes up another elected or appointed post, such as the office of President, after [exemption from the Office], or if he has taken up his duties in an institution of the European Union, for example. The fourth amendment concerns the reimbursement of the housing costs of members of the government, which is made similar to the regulation applicable to members of the Riigikogu. Perhaps in the future it will be foreseen that the housing costs of a member of the government will be reimbursed on request up to 15% of the salary of a member of the government. It is important that a member of the government resides outside the local government unit of the Government of the Republic or of the Ministry that is in charge of it and in neighbouring municipalities. This means that the ministers of the ministries in Tallinn will not receive compensation for living in Tallinn and surrounding municipalities and for living in the municipalities in Tartu and Tartu. Fifthly, it is foreseen that a fixed-term contract of employment will be concluded for a period of five years with the heads of public authorities administered by the government authorities, unless otherwise provided by law. For those managers who currently have an open-ended contract of employment, the deadline starts to run from the entry into force of the amendment to the law. The contracts of employment of the managers of state institutions are, for the most part, fixed-term and are governed by different laws, such as those of the head of the forensic institution, those of the director of the state university of applied sciences, those of the head of the state museum, etc. Currently there is no deadline for, for example, the head of the Registers and Information Systems Centre, the directors of vocational training institutions and some other managers. Those who have a deadline under other laws will not change anything. Why is it made for a fixed term? The reason is that the heads of institutions would then be more motivated to bring about changes and could also encourage rotation between institutions. Sixthly, the role and tasks of the State Chancellery will be specified, for example, by including support for government planning and coordination of the state's strategic planning among its tasks. Seventhly, the differences in the processing of personal data will be added to the State Chancellery, i.e. the current law will be updated in order to ensure more clearly the protection of the rights of the data subject and better legal clarity in the processing of data necessary for the performance of the tasks assigned to the State Chancellery. The draft law still contains a number of changes of a more technical nature due to practical needs. For example, the entry into office of the Government of the Republic will be clarified and it will be deleted that when the government takes office, all members of the government should immediately sign the text of the oath. This is because it may happen that some incoming minister cannot take an oath for very objective reasons. That means he can take his oath and sign some later. The regulation of the resignation of the Minister shall also be specified in such a way that the Prime Minister has the right to reject the resignation within three days. The competence of the Prime Minister is clarified, for example, the obligation for the Prime Minister to present an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu each year. At present, many ministers come here to take stock of their activities. Some ministers derive this responsibility from different laws, but all ministers of the sector are covered by the reviews provided for in the "Estonia 2035." I understand you had one on your agenda today. Now it is added that the Prime Minister should also make an overview. For example, some outdated provisions resulting from technological developments will also be amended. For example, the minutes of the [session] of the government will indicate the place or manner in which the hearing will take place, since the meetings of the government may also take place via e-mail channels. Thank you! I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U535	Yeah. Kalle Grünthal. The hug isn't in the room. Everyone's gone. Helle-Moonika Helme is in the room. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U536	Yeah. I would ask that, since this gives the Prime Minister the opportunity to reject the resignation of the Minister once, whether we are going to see such a theatre. Let's take the case today. Minister Liina Kersna, for example, shakes the ashes on her head to get, say, a positive image among the people that, oh, I'm guilty, I resign, okay, and then Prime Minister Kaja Kallas says that I would grant your resignation, but you're such a good minister, you've done so well that in fact, no, you still don't resign. Are we going to see such a theatre in the future if this provision goes through?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U537	I believe that compliance with the law is not theatre. I certainly cannot tell you how one or the other particular prime minister behaves in his position.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U538	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U539	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. You are planning to amend § 4 (3) and bring in public limited liability companies, private limited liability companies, profit-making companies, boards of directors and councils. But the current norm says nicely that a member of the Government of the Republic must not be outside the duties of any other elected or appointed office. It is now a very interesting phenomenon that Tanel Kiik is the Vice President of the WHO. Doesn't the current rule of the government of the Republic apply to him? For what reason, let's say that's allowed right now? Now you want to change this thing for him? Are you gonna hold him responsible for being in that position?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U540	Thank you. Tanel Kiik does not break any law, he performs this post due to his duties. These provisions do not concern such situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U541	Peter's not in the room either. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U542	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You said that some of the provisions already apply to us, and now it would be good if we were to legitimise them and perhaps relax the conditions. Let me get this straight: we are taking over this current regulation, we are legitimizing it, but much more leniently, leaving a larger hall area, and the aim is to fight corruption. Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U543	Thank you. I understand that you have questions about the current guidelines for avoiding conflicts of interest adopted by the government just over a year ago. These instructions are not mandatory. We thought it would be good to make these guidelines, at least to a certain extent, part of the law. In fact, by bringing these provisions, which are set out in this draft, to the level of the law, the situation for the members of the government will become more stringent. At present, these prevention guidelines are indicative and certainly no sanctions are foreseen, it cannot be said that the law will be violated if these guidelines are not complied with. It's more of a question of ethical behavior, it's recommended right now. We offer to bring the law to a level, not to the same extent. But without doubt, the Riigikogu has the opportunity at law level to bring these things to a stricter level, which is currently in the guidelines for preventing conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U544	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U545	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Explain to me why the Ministry of the Interior and the State Chancellery did not coordinate this body. But, above all, I am interested in the fact that it has been said here that it was primarily feared that the role of the Riigikogu would be reduced and that there would also be a decrease in legal clarity. Please open up some of that background. Is this draft law of the Government of the Republic moving towards an increase in the rubber seal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U546	Thank you. I do not understand your question, because if it had not been agreed by different ministries or the State Chancellery, this bill would not have reached the Riigikogu. Certainly at the beginning there were differences of opinion, discussions on implementation, which led to the original version of the draft, to changes, some things being added, some things being taken out, depending on how the discussions developed, as all the drafts are always amended during the drafting process. If the draft goes to coordination circles, there will be feedback, perhaps some things will be re-evaluated. Exactly the same thing happened with this bill. The draft has come before the Riigikogu with the support of all parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U547	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U548	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here we have a point concerning the compensation of a member of the Government of the Republic. If a member of the government has been in office for less than one year, he or she shall be entitled to compensation for the corresponding period of office, but not for more than six months. In the case of a member of the Riigikogu, three months maximum and the whole story are specifically mentioned. It's been put here for six months, but I'm going to ask you, for example, if I get this point right. If the minister has been in office for six months, will he be paid three months or will he be paid six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U549	If he has been in office for six months, half a year, it is clear that he will receive half, or three months' salary, of the maximum possible, or six months' salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U550	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U551	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will first adjust that Minister Liina Kersna did not comply with the law, but she broke the law. But my question is that, according to this amendment, only the Prime Minister will take an oral oath and the rest of the ministers will just sign the oath text. In fact, the oath is a formality, and in the event of [taking responsibility] it is possible that, for example, the paper will disappear or the person will say that he or she does not remember or know what he or she signed. Why don't you explain to the State Chancellery who presented this proposal, the motive for creating this practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U552	Thank you. I know you've joined the Minister's office, too. You should remember that at the moment the Prime Minister takes office, the Prime Minister and all the ministers will sign the same document, which will be signed by the Prime Minister, and these documents will be kept. The oral oath is given by ministers before the Riigikogu in cases where they take office later, for example by replacing another minister. In the case of this new application, i.e. the proposal, if not all ministers immediately take office on the first day of the oath, when the Prime Minister reads the oath, then they can come before the Riigikogu, take an oral and written oath, sign it. In this sense, the only thing that changes in current practice is that when the Prime Minister takes office, not all ministers need to take an oath, and in this case they will do so in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U553	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U554	Thank you. Good minister! I'm sorry I used the word "theater," but I meant something else. That Minister Kersna has caused millions of damage to the state by violating the Public Procurement Act, but both the Prime Minister and the media are looking away, so that the neck is doubled. I would ask that it says here that the law includes provisions on the competence of the government and the Prime Minister in European Union matters. Have they not been competent before or who has been competent and why should it be included?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U555	Thank you. In the case of jurisdiction, this is what is meant more precisely: I will quickly find this place, that it will be pointed out where the Prime Minister represents the Estonian state in the European institutions. That's what it's about. Unfortunately, I can't find it as fast as you can, if you tell me the paragraph, I can find it faster. Certainly, the Prime Minister also coordinates the activities of ministers when the government formulates positions on various issues relating to the European Union, and how ministers participate in the European Union's decision-making process. As we know, the responsibilities of Estonian ministers do not coincide with, for example, the distribution of European Union Commissioners or how different thematic conferences, meetings or thematic councils, ministerial meetings take place. It is the competence of the Prime Minister to share the roles that different ministers play at European Union level, and also to ensure that Estonia's views on different topics are coherent and consistent. This is undoubtedly the task of the Prime Minister. Perhaps this has been the task of the Prime Ministers now, but the State Chancellery felt that this should be more clearly expressed in law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U556	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U557	Thank you. I asked you earlier about Tanel Kiig, so you told me nicely that it was part of his job. I accidentally opened § 49 in the Government of the Republic Act, where the competence of the Minister as head of the Ministry is stated. I asked the same question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then Toomas Kivimägi said nicely that [Tanel Kiik] represents Estonia there in the WHO. But I do not see at the moment that there can be such representation, because the Minister of the Ministry can only be involved with the working groups of the Council of the European Union and the committees of the European Commission. The WHO isn't on this list. Here's another question. WHO is, as far as I know, an NGO uniform. Who, then, does he represent, Kiik, there, for whose interests he stands, for the interests of Estonia or WHO? There's a conflict of interest. Why is he allowed to do this? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U558	Thank you. Ministers represent the Estonian state at international level on a sectoral basis, on the topics that they are responsible for. For example, the Minister of Defence also meets with the US Minister for Defence and communicates on this subject, meets with defence ministers from other countries, participates in defence organisations, etc. This is exactly the same for all other ministers. The WHO is known to have health issues and it is clear that the Minister of Health also represents Estonia in the WHO. In a very large number of international organisations, the so-called "leading council" is elected from the representatives of the countries, who belong to the so-called board of directors. These are national international organisations, which are national associations. It is logical that countries in national associations represent their interests, but they do so in cooperation. Who, then, should lead international organisations, national organisations? It is logical that ministers are acting on their own terms of reference. If there are councils in the organisation, which include the representatives of the states and the ministers in particular, then the Estonian minister also belongs to such a council.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U559	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U560	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Previously, yes, we looked at the codes of conduct for conflicts of interest, they are recommended. Now we want to legitimize it so this big gray area won't be so much more. But maybe it'll be a little easier. Who's gonna watch this? I'm afraid that we're perhaps going to somehow become an obstacle to ourselves once we've legalized it. Let's say it says don't read strangers to us, but on the party's summer days, someone's phone comes off, you think you're gonna send word to him that your husband went fishing, you're kidding, you're kidding. Is it actually going down there? So, are the party's summer-day jokes gonna stop us from turning off the taps?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U561	Thank you. Unfortunately, I do not now understand how the party's summer days relate to this draft. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U562	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U563	Good manager! To be honest, I didn't understand why you didn't understand the question. It's been that way before. I asked you straight. The first question was that the role of the Riigikogu was feared here. It's pretty important to us. You didn't answer me. I hope you answer now. I mentioned that the Ministry of the Interior and the State Chancellery did not coordinate with regard to the intention to develop, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not coordinate the draft; only the Ministry of Culture agreed; the rest made comments. So I'd still like to know a little bit. Above all, the key issue is what has not been discussed since then: is the role of the Riigikogu being reduced, not to mention, of course, the lack of legal clarity, then resolved and this concern no longer exists? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Or is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U564	Thank you. Now I see what you mean. You are probably talking about the fact that during the drafting process, in the round of coordination between the various VTCs, a proposal was made to abolish the names of so-called ministries or ministries at all. Then each prime minister could decide for himself what ministries are, what the names of ministerial positions are, etc. This step would have reduced the Riigikogu's ability to decide which ministries it is made up of. We currently have a clear list of ministries, 12 ministries, and the Prime Minister has been given the opportunity to appoint 14 ministers. This means that there are several ministers in some ministries so that competences can be shared differently. If all this had been lost, it would have been a reduction in the competence or power of the Riigikogu. This was one argument why this amendment could not be accepted. This was discussed and decided not to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U565	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U566	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, non-profit organisations are outside the limits imposed on ministers. It has been argued here that corruption through non-profit organisations is obviously not possible to create; the possibility of conflicts of interest is so small that there is no reason to include them here. When this evaluation was obtained, was there some kind of legal expertise or some kind of analysis? We've heard that if you still want to go down a criminal road, you're gonna take every opportunity. Non-profit organisations are not at all the place where they could not be used. What was the basis for your decision or your decision in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U567	Thank you. The question is that the amendment brings § 4 (3) of the current Act into line with the Constitution. There's talk about being a profit-making company that can't belong to. This existing law [the provision] is amended. The third paragraph of the current law is longer and it also includes the situations in which the government must be informed of its involvement. It is put in a slightly different wording into a new paragraph in the same paragraph, the fourth paragraph. Paragraph 31 shall apply where it is indicated that the Minister must inform the Government of the Republic of Estonia that he is taking part, outside his duties, in certain trusts or other legal entities. It's also about non-profit institutions, it's about foundations. This means that, in principle, the Government of the Republic, either collectively or on a proposal from the Prime Minister, if there really seems to be any major conflict or potential conflict, can say this to the Minister, draw attention to it, and, if necessary, recommend, for example, to leave or refuse to participate. [[A voice from the hall.]] Oh, it's about where the decisions have been made. Yeah, let's just say there are different institutions in the administration of different ministries. It is clear that the Minister often makes decisions, such as financing decisions, where he directs funds or certain things. He shouldn't go to the head of these agencies right after he left, otherwise the question might arise as to whether, for example, he had done this separation of funds because he had the idea of going to that office. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U568	Let's stop this now, please. Hello! We have a question-answer here, a question-answer here. Mr. Hepner! If you can calm down a bit, Mr. Hepner, it's Paul Puustusmaa's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U569	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm trying to understand the inconsistency. It's a little bit about your previous answer. The explanatory memorandum states that the purpose of this draft is to regulate the operating restrictions of the Government of the Republic and to bring them into line with § 99 of the Constitution. Alignment requires that the current provision is incompatible. So now I'm trying to figure it out. I'm looking at the constitution, I'm making sure it says right now...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U570	Mr. Pulpland, I apologize for a moment. Mr. Hepner and Mr. Stone Mountain! The two of you can make such a buzz in this hall that it's hard for me to even listen to the woodland in front of it. [[A voice from the hall.]] Now, Mr. Paul Pulpland, please continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U571	Thank you very much. Yeah, as I said, I'm looking for this current mismatch that is being smoothed out, as the explanatory memorandum says, that the purpose of the draft is to correct and bring it into line with § 99 of the Constitution. So, § 99 of the Constitution says that the members of the Government of the Republic must not be in any other state office or belong to the board of directors or council of a profit-making company. When I look at this amendment, I see that there's plenty of things inside and there's a lot more. But where is this mismatch or how is it brought into line with the current constitution? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't see that inconsistency. Where's the mismatch?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U572	Thank you. With regard to the current wording, it is stated that it may not hold any other position to be chosen or appointed outside its duties or engage in any activity under a contract of employment or service, with the exception of scientific and pedagogical work. In other words, if the Constitution clearly states that it must not be a state office, another state office and the board of directors or board of directors of a profit-making company, the wording in force states that it must not hold another elected or appointed post outside its duties. What are we going to do with this change? Let us bring this wording more closely and more clearly into line with the Constitution. The mismatch may not be large, but it is a problem of interpretation that has been highlighted. As a result, these changes have also been made in order to make it clear and better understood what can and must not be done. This also means that it will be pointed out where there may not be, i.e. in the management board of a public limited company, a private limited company, a commercial company or a supervisory board, so that this matter is more clearly understood. Look at the law in force. The current paragraph 3 is divided into two parts, as I said earlier, that there are 3 and 31, where these issues are dealt with a little more structurally and hopefully in a more understandable form. Of course, if a member of the Riigikogu feels that this is not clear enough and it still needs to be clarified, it is certainly possible to improve this wording further, but we believe that we have offered a wording that is appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U573	Okay. Peter Ernitsa has a question about the procedure for conducting the hearing. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U574	I just wanted to apologize for making too much noise and trying to fix myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U575	You don't have to do that... It may just be lower, you don't have to put that handmark in separate. My comment at the time was to Mr Hepner and Mr Kivimägi at all. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U576	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I would also ask about § 121. Indeed, in Estonia, the regulation of conflict of interest and communication with lobbyists has been very modest and any regulation has come with great effort. Although we have received a number of international recommendations, we have now reached guidelines for avoiding conflicts of interest and good practice in dealing with lobbyists. This letter is in line with the recommendations given to us and, to my surprise, it is actually stricter than that which has been recorded in § 121. If there is this ban on acting as a member of the management and control body for a period of six months, so far good practice and guidance have been used for one year, which has been considered reasonable internationally. Why have we gone to six months? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It would still be good to move this year from good practice to law level.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U577	Thank you. There was a discussion about that. It was found that, perhaps in Estonia's small size, such an annual limit may not always be rational, and this led to six months being put here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U578	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U579	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I read the sentence in the explanatory memorandum: "More transparent and free governance of the risk of corruption improves general confidence in the leaders of the state and thereby improves the legal environment and compliance" as well as the part of the sentence that improves Estonia's reputation as a country that takes the fight against corruption seriously, a country that takes the recommendations of GRECO into account. In the light of the events of today, when the criminal offence stipulated by Minister Kersna's Penal Code is being attempted to commit a common misdemeanor, which only leads to the payment of a fine and everything goes on nicely, it seems rather comical. How do you comment on that? Is it just the goal to create an image again? I can't see [other], there's still a very big gap between action and words.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U580	Thank you. Estonia has been very prominent in its anti-corruption activities. Our aim is to maintain this level in the future and to ensure that the temptation to engage in corrupt transactions is as low as possible or not at all. This is the purpose and purpose of this draft, as well as the purpose of other activities, such as the way ministers, advisers, senior officials register meetings with lobbyists and lobbyists and the reasons why they make these meetings. In fact, it is publicly available and, as far as I know, it is also monitored and appreciated by the public. Very nice move. According to my modest proposal, the Riigikogu, at least in part, could also consider such an approach in a voluntary way. And so on. So there are quite a number of possibilities to deal with decisions being public, to exclude corrupt steps, or even to suspect that something corrupt is being done. I think that the current government has also made quite significant changes on this subject, and one or one of the steps is also before you with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U581	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U582	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understood very clearly what you said that alignment with the Constitution would not really take place here. However, you stated that the aim was to specify the restrictions on the activities of a member of the Government of the Republic, which would reduce the rule of § 99 of the Constitution. Perhaps if a member of the Government of the Republic who is freed from [the office] proceeds from § 99 of the Constitution, he actually has much more of these restrictions. This is definitely a constitutional gesture. Have you analysed before it was introduced whether this barrage is proportionate to our great sense of bureaucracy and is not excessive?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U583	Thank you. According to § 99 of the Constitution: "The members of the Government of the Republic shall not be members of any other government office or be members of the board of directors or board of directors of a commercial company. " Commercial companies are public limited liability companies, private limited liability companies, profit cooperatives, and they are also explicitly mentioned in the law so that the law is read more clearly and clearly. So in this sense, I don't quite understand where you find that with this definition we're going to be narrower than the Constitution says. According to the Constitution, there is still a situation in which it must not be in other public offices and so on. All other activities are permitted, there is no constitutional ban on membership of partnerships, for example, because there is no board of directors or council. The Constitution does not prohibit being an entrepreneur, and we cannot take such steps as may force a minister, for example, to abandon his business. So that principle does not go against the law. If the law introduces certain justified restrictions further, then there is no doubt that they must always be considered and also considered from a constitutional point of view, regardless of which law it is. This has undoubtedly been the case in this case, too, in the setting of these restrictions. For example, we have considered what restrictions to apply to ministers after they have resigned, and this is not an absolute ban, it is a ban within certain limits. This is proportionate, precisely because it is not universal. We have assessed that a six-month limit is essential. We have assessed that it must not go to the institutions and companies on which it has taken decisions. The ban is not for all institutions and public enterprises. It is precisely from such considerations, from constitutional considerations, that these things have been put in place. If the Riigikogu starts discussing this draft in the future committee, the committee can without doubt assess and consider whether this proposed balance point is appropriate or not. I'm sure there's always discussion points, but we found it acceptable. So I think, given Estonia's small size, especially in terms of the number of people, imposing too rigid restrictions, imposing very extensive restrictions will limit people's other fundamental rights and freedoms, and eventually it will also hinder Estonian society, entrepreneurship and so on. For example, if we were to impose a restriction on ministers not to manage businesses at all for a period of time, it would, in my opinion, be very clearly across the border. There are countries where these restrictions are much tougher, but this is certainly due to the fact that the countries are more extensive, the variation of jobs is wider, the person has more opportunities to earn a living after leaving this job, including decent service, and given Estonia's small size, there may not always be so many jobs. So we undoubtedly considered the different places to put this balance in.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U584	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U585	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. These recommendations are about a wider circle than just the members of the government. In fact, political advisers could also be included and extended to six months instead. As you answered nicely, given Estonia's small size, it was decided in favour of six months. For me, this logic is exactly the opposite: given Estonia's small size, this restriction should undoubtedly be one year. Given that we are much more likely to meet our neighbours, friends, courtmates, than there are in larger countries, this type of stricter restriction of conflict of interest [to avoid], communication with lobbyists and getting to work with them would actually be necessary, and in a small society the goal of governance being open, honest and transparent would be much better served. It would create confidence in politicians. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Would it still be possible for the Commission to discuss this and also to find the support of the Ministry for the amendment in order to extend it up to the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U586	It is undoubtedly possible for members of the Riigikogu to make proposals and discuss where and what restrictions to set. I would like to point out that the restriction we have imposed concerns that the Minister may not take office on the board of a private legal person governed by the Government of the Ministry under his authority when he has taken decisions on this [legal person]. There are very different institutions in the areas of government of ministries. We also considered what might result from these things. For example, there is indeed a single institution under the administration of the Minister of Justice, it is AS [Estonian] Prison[industry], right? It is likely that any minister will not have a very serious problem or obstacle to not being part of its board or board for a period of six months. Problems arise, in particular, in healthcare establishments and educational establishments, or also in research institutions, where a situation can arise where a very good health care, medical specialist, doctor cannot move beyond ministerial office as head of a health establishment. In our discussions, it seemed that there may be too much, because there may be a situation that there may not be enough good leaders. We generally assume that people in ministerial office are competent, and they are also good leaders, that they will not be able to enter [the office] unless they also have managerial competence. We found that if we set a limit, then maybe this isn't the best idea. It may also work on the contrary that people refuse to go to the position of minister, seeing that after that they cannot return to their job or similar job. This may not be in the interests of Estonian society either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U587	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is now welcome to the premiere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U588	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 3 May. Minister of Justice Maris Lauri and his colleagues were invited and Kaidi Paju, Deputy Head of the Legal Department of the State Chancellery, and adviser Eero Svarval, were also present. Minister Maris Lauri introduced all these issues in the same way in the Commission, which is why I will not repeat it. In fact, most of the questions raised in this Chamber were also examined by the Commission. That's why I'm doing it very briefly. The Commission, too, once again raised the issue of profit cooperatives, public limited liability companies and private limited liability companies, but on the other hand it was pointed out that, for example, some hospitals are both public limited liability companies and, at the same time, foundations. Indeed, it is one such place that, in the case of a public limited company, for example, this is subject to a restriction. In the case of a foundation, there is no theoretical restriction. Secondly, Kalle Grünthal raised this issue, which also went through the procedure here, that it was listed where the Minister may not belong, and at the same time the following provision contains a description that he must inform when he acts as an undertaking. The answer here is very clear: it must not belong to the board of directors of the company, while at the same time the Minister is not really prohibited from owning one company or another, even the sole owner. So that's not what this is about. There was also a discussion over the six months that were touched here in the saalis. The Minister also explained this at the meeting of the Commission. Maybe two more lines over here. The Minister put forward one argument as to why there are six months, that whenever we impose certain restrictions, there is a question of some compensation. In this case, it is known that if a minister who has been in office for more than a year is dismissed, he will be paid six monthly salaries as compensation. This means that it has a cover for this period, which is why it is certainly not justified to ask for any additional compensation. But I am actually quite in agreement with Riina here, and in the committee meeting I also expressed the opinion that this six months seems a little too short. It is, of course, possible to consider this in the Commission. The Minister said, both in this Chamber and in the sitting of the Commission, that if Parliament, a majority of Parliament, decides differently, of course, it is not a very big question of principle and a problem at all. He revisited the subject of Tanel Kiig and his status as Vice-President of the WHO. Indeed, it is very precisely stated here that if he is engaged in this outside his duties. And as the Minister said in this Chamber, it relates to Mr Kiige's duties and he represents the Estonian state there. So there is no contradiction here. The following procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 11 May, the decision was consensual; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; the decision was also consensual; thirdly, to appoint Mr Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the representative of the lead committee, and that decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U589	My colleagues don't seem to have any questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U590	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This morning, the Special Committee against Corruption, in cooperation with the US Embassy and Corruption Free Estonia, held a round table. Unfortunately, there were few ambassadors listening, but we talked about how to regulate communication with lobbyists, how to increase transparency, and we also listened to the experience of other countries. Indeed, it is very important to build trust in politicians and policy making that there is transparency. In my opinion, the conflict begins by defining lobbying as a back door policy, as an advantage for someone, even though we know that every day we have to make decisions and we need to be informed about the effects of our decision. This information, what this effect will have on the parties, we will not get from anywhere other than these people, representative organisations, they will be organisations representing business interests or NGOs. We'll get that information from them. It's good to have that information. That doesn't mean we can't decide the same way or the other way around. That is the taking of political responsibility that, being aware of this information, we are making the decision that we think is best, and we can argue in favour of it. In Estonia, the regulation of communication with lobbyists has so far been modest in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest; it has also come with a very large delay compared to our neighbouring countries. But we've come to this kind of soft regulation. We have guidelines for the prevention of conflicts of interest for ministers and advisors, good practice officials in communication with lobbyists. There is still a so-called agreement in line with international recommendations. Both documents also provide that the Minister may not be a member of the management and control body of the company or foundation in the area of his administration during the year; the official may not work for the lobbyist or his representative during the year if he has decided to have an advantage or advantage in favour of him in the last year. Actually, this year is kind of a standard right now. For me, the surprise, the negative surprise, is that the bill is limited to six months. As soon as I read that six months, I had this feeling that the minister's severance grant was six months, so that's why the six months were written down there. Let's face it, people raise children with minimum wages. If there is compensation for serving as a minister six months after leaving office, I do not think that is an argument justifying this period of limitation in order to prevent work from taking place within the authority of its administration. In addition, Estonia is small. I think that some risks in a small society, also in terms of conflict of interest, are greater and, therefore, achieving transparency is more important than perhaps in a larger country. So I really think it is right that, as has been stated so far in the guidelines and good practice, this restriction to becoming a member of the management and control body of a company or foundation within the scope of its administration could be valid for a year and could also extend to the political advisors of the Minister. I understand that some areas of government are large, there are many institutions, many agencies, but with a little humor, I don't know, it's good or bad, but most ministers don't have a professional education. So that he is able to get a job in his area of government or has some sort of professional advantage of getting a job in a sub-office in his area of government, practically does not occur. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U591	Yes, please! Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U592	So it makes sense to impose, I think, restrictions on the employment of those who have worked as ministers. So far, we have been very lenient with this change of seats. Such a hunting time, some kind of pause is necessary, it could be in line with international recommendations, it could be at least a year. In fact, this circle of people is wider than just ministers. Similarly, it is the political councillors who have this information, and there are exactly the same risks when they switch seats in a short period of time. It is well written here that, during the term of office, important decisions concerning the activities of this legal person have been taken. In fact, the advantage of the position, the information, the relationship, the exposure to the position of the Minister, does not actually relate solely to decisions of significant influence on the activities of some of their legal entities. I think that this restriction should also be lifted. It could be good practice that the Minister does not go to work in sub-offices within one year of leaving office. In fact, this does not significantly restrict people's freedom, does not significantly restrict career opportunities, but would be completely fair, transparent and would reduce the risk of conflicts of interest at systemic level. This general practice of changing chairs, for example, feels that it is very useful that I have worked as an official in the ministry, have been in the third sector, have been in the State Chancellery, the Minister's office and the Riigikogu. It gives you experience and all that. I don't think a person has to be in one job for the rest of his life. Therefore, in this draft, too, the amendment that has so far become time-limited for the head of a public institution managed by a government agency is undoubtedly reasonable. Positions can be changed. But this kind of hunting time, this year-on-year information, it doesn't have that much value anymore, this cooling-off period should be taken, and it could become a standard. Somehow we need to set this example. I think one place to take the next step towards reducing conflicts of interest and building trust in politics, politicians and politics is here, here exactly is the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U593	Kalle Grünthal on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U594	Ladies and gentlemen, The following is, in principle, very important and I think he is also very important to our good colleague, Riina Sikkut, who is the chairman of the Committee on Corruption. As he spoke very diligently about the conflict of interest here, I would like to raise a problem right now. First of all, my deep apologies to the President of the sitting of our Riigikogu, as he made a remark to me and Peeter Ernits that we spoke so loudly here that we were already interrupting the question of Paul Puustusmaa. Ernits already apologized, so I'll make my apology. But the conversation we had with Ernitsa wasn't that kind of talk about anecdotes, it was a very serious subject. In my opinion, this is very much a matter of corruption. At the moment, we have one very interesting point in the draft, which Mr Maris Lauri has come to present here, which amends § 4 (3) of the Government of the Republic Act. The honourable Riina Sikku also touched on this on several occasions, talking about a conflict of interest. This amendment entails that a member of the Government of the Republic may not be a member of the board or council of a public limited company, a private limited company or a commercial association. That's a story. But what's the law now? At present, the same rule states that a member of the Government of the Republic must not be in any other elected or appointed post outside the official duties. Isn't that right? What changed? The change is that not-for-profit organisations have been excluded and maybe other associations have been excluded. So it's concrete where a member of the Government of the Republic can't be. But the problem is what I have already raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and which Mr Kivimägi has also pointed out here. I had such doubts or doubts as to how Minister Tanel Kiki of the Government of the Republic could be Vice President of the WHO. At the hearing, Mr Kivimägi said that he was the representative. I didn't have anything better to say at that moment, because Stone Mountain is a wise man, and what I'm going to argue with here. But there was doubt. Today, I asked the Minister again exactly the same question and came up with the same answer that it relates to his duties. But in the meantime, after a little education, I also looked at the interest in § 49 of the Government of the Republic Act, which sets out the competence of the Minister. And what did I see? The only type of representation that can be on Tanel Kiigel is when it is a representative of the European Commission. There are no other forms of representation. Now I have a question. I wonder how Tanel Kiik can be Vice President of the WHO and where does this mandate come from that he can figure out as Vice President there? That's what Peter Ernits and I were looking for. Peter Ernits began to philosophize that yes, here perhaps for all sorts of reasons that Brunei is some sort of representative somewhere and that Mozambique is also and that they are placed there under international law. Maybe. I'm asking for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U595	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U596	I was thinking that I wouldn't argue with you, Peter, but the question is that the law of the Government of the Republic specifically states that there must be no elected or appointed office. Here's the bean. We didn't finish, because then we got upset that we were interrupting the hearing. But that's why I want to say that the Tanel Swing is either chosen or mentioned. Thus, he is currently in breach of § 4 (3) of the Government Act because he cannot be there. I didn't see the warrant in § 49 that he might be a representative somewhere else. Now comes this detailed issue, which I would ask the honourable Riina Sikkut to follow very closely. Since the current law does not allow the Minister, or Tanel Kiige, to hold an elected or appointed post, how can he be present as Vice-President of the WHO? He's been named or elected. Of course, another problem is that there is information that the WHO is actually a non-profit organisation and the same non-profit organisation is excluded from the amendment. For us, the problem is whose interests are represented by Tanel Kiik. Does he represent the interests of Estonia or does he represent the interests of the WHO? I say, on the basis of the agreement with Jüri Ratas WHO on digital passports and vaccination, that Tanel Kiik is now more active as a WHO representative. Vaccines from morning to evening, propaganda is in progress. He's been saying repeatedly here that the vaccine passport has come to stay. If you're asking if these vaccines are safe, the answer is they're saving a hundred percent of people. But at the same time, we know how many deaths there are, how many massive side effects, vaccine damage. I say there is a conflict of interest here. I have a request for Riina Sikkut. Since you are the chairman of the Corruption Commission and you are a very good and hardworking person, you take out all the expenses from all over the place, it would be very good to take down the activities of Tanel Kiige in two places, sitting on two chairs. Because I say he's in the WHO's best interest on the basis of what he's done so far. I do not now know whether I have to do my drafting in writing or whether it is enough for me to make this statement to the Committee on Corruption in an oral form. But I believe that this statement can also be found in the verbatim report, so I would expect Riina Sikkut to take serious action as to whether or not Tanel Kiik has broken the law of the Government of the Republic at this point in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U597	Okay. Does Riina Sikkut want a reclining or a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U598	A procedural question. I mean, if there were so many personal calls, can I ask Kalle Grünthal some questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U599	No. But there's the possibility of a rejoinder. [[A voice from the hall.]] On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U600	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This consensual position of the Commission has slightly disbanded in this debate, which is why a couple of high-speed relics, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Riina, I agree with you one hundred percent that transparency is one very important argument, and there is no doubt that this draft will do exactly that. There is no doubt at all. To tell you the truth, it's even hard for me to come up with places where the minister can belong when all these requirements are met. One side is where he can't belong, the other side is that he can belong, but he has to report it. I think practically everyone knows where the minister belongs or doesn't belong. So there's a break point somewhere. I do not think there is any doubt here whether there should be any further extension or extension of this line, this list. It's long enough. The important thing is that we all know where the minister is. There is public control and, on the other hand, we do not need to question the good work of our law enforcement authorities, which is why I think that these restrictions are already on the border on this side, so to speak, that, if you add them yet, you do not know whether or not the Minister is allowed any more privacy and other editorial activities. So we need to find this balance, however, and there is no doubt that it will significantly increase transparency. The second line is for a good colleague, Kalle Grünthal. I think you just hurt Tanel Swing a little bit. After all, Estonia as a country is a member of the WHO and someone should represent the country there. The question is, who is it? I think that Toomas Kivimägi is not fit to represent the WHO, but a minister in this field would be most appropriate to do so. I do not think it is a personal wish, a solo or a decision of Tanel Kiig, but it is agreed in accordance with the division of work of the Government of the Republic. There's no reason to criticize Tanel for that. So two lines I wanted to say. Once again, I very much welcome this bill. Indeed, a number of things are brought to the level of the law that were previously not at the level of the law. I am, I repeat, perfectly agree that Riina's committee can, of course, discuss it directly with the Commission; members of the Riigikogu may propose amendments. I don't think it's a paradigm change at all when it's one year instead of six months. Indeed, this does not mean that any additional compensation should be paid because it is prolonged from six months to one year. I think that because of this, no ministerial candidate will fail to accept the job if he knows that after completing his job he may not be allowed a whole year, I don't know, to work in five or six or ten jobs, but the rest of the world is open to him. In any case, I believe that this is a very good and important draft, many things will be clearer and more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U601	Mr Grünthal has a rejoinder request. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U602	Yes, I am very pleased that the esteemed Toomas Kivimägi has just mentioned my name, and I can optimize his claims that I have hurt Tanel Kiige. I'm not at all against someone having to represent. Absolutely right. But this no one can be a minister unless it is governed by the law of the Government of the Republic. There are 1.3 million people in Estonia, there are certainly people who are competent and able to represent and are able to represent. Tanel Swing isn't the only one, the last lifeline, basically, who can meet the standard of representation there. Here's the catch! So I'm still sticking to the fact that Tanel Swing is a servant of two masters, sits on two chairs and sits more on the chair on which it is possible to be more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U603	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 595. I don't see any other suggestions. We have finished our first reading and will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U604	We will move on to agenda item 12: First reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U605	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Citizenship Act developed by the Ministry of the Interior, which was approved by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 7 April this year and was given to the honourable Riigikogu more than a week later. The draft is short, essentially changes one section of the Citizenship Act. The purpose of the draft is also simple: to give the government the discretion to decide to withdraw Estonian citizenship from those naturalisations who have entered foreign state or military service or intelligence or security services, or to a foreign organisation holding arms and militaryly organized or exercising military exercises. This change allows for example the preservation of Estonian citizenship by naturalisation for those persons who have acquired Estonian citizenship and who are fighting against the Russian Federation in Ukraine. An offence against humanity and an act of aggression shall also be included as the basis for the decision to withdraw citizenship if the person has been convicted of the offences mentioned above. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the Government of the Republic no longer has an impervious obligation to take Estonian citizenship from persons who have entered foreign state or military service or intelligence or security service or armed and militaryly organized or military exercises in a foreign organisation, but the Government of the Republic can consider, for each person, whether or not to be a member of such an organisation may pose a threat to public policy or to the security of the state, and then decide whether the withdrawal of Estonian citizenship is or is not justified. The prior procedure is carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board, which submits a draft order of the Government of the Republic through the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Government of the Republic for decision. Following the withdrawal of nationality, the person must either apply for a legal basis for his or her stay or leave Estonia. In addition, the current regulation is complemented by a new basis for the withdrawal of Estonian citizenship. Citizenship can be withdrawn by a decision to treat persons convicted of a criminal offence against humanity in the Penal Code under the name "criminal offences against humanity" or for committing an act of aggression. In the case of a conviction of another State, it is necessary to assess whether the conviction of the person has been carried out in accordance with the principles of the State of the law and corresponds to the characteristics of an anti-humanity or aggression crime within the meaning of the Penal Code. Until now, only terrorist offences were the basis for the withdrawal of citizenship. In the case of crimes against humanity, there has also been a course of consideration, not an imperative provision, because in the latter case there is a risk that Estonia will be bound by the judicial system of another country, where the conviction and trial of a person may not take place on the basis of the national principles of law and on the basis of values or democratic rule of law. Citizenship can continue to be taken away from persons who have tried to change the constitutional order of Estonia by violent means, who have concealed circumstances that would have prevented him or her from being granted citizenship or regaining it, or who are in the citizenship of another country but are not exempt from Estonian citizenship, by making false declarations on the acquisition or restoration of Estonian citizenship. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U606	Let's start with them. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U607	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! It's good to see you here late at night. But I may even have a suggestion. I'm looking at what the law says, maybe the explanatory memorandum has a little bit more written down, but still. It says in paragraph 2 that foreign state or military service or intelligence or security service. I think there are Estonian citizens in both the German and American state or intelligence or security services. Maybe it should be clearly written here, too, in the service of a hostile foreign country?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U608	Thank you. I'm sure this idea deserves a discussion. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U609	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U610	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The effects of the law. Can you tell me how many men or how many people this bill is? Okay, it's clear that intelligence or foreign military, but is there private armies like Wagner at the end of the target group description?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U611	Thank you for your question. Here it is meant that we are talking about national [organisations], other [organisations].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U612	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U613	Thank you. I will continue my question from right there, point 2. Here, again, I propose. It goes on like this when it poses a threat to public order or national security. I don't get it. For example, if you join a foreign country, such as those organisations mentioned above, and then violate the public order of that country or the security of that country, or try to make some kind of military coup, right, will citizenship be taken away in Estonia and on what grounds? Perhaps we should also write that if it poses a threat to public order in Estonia or the security of the Estonian state. A suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U614	Thank you. It is still thought of the danger posed by such behaviour or action to the state of Estonia, which is the country of nationality. But once again, if the wording can be improved, it is, of course, still possible to do so in the proceedings of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U615	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U616	Good manager! Good minister! I still wanted an answer on how many people this bill is here. It was only when there was a draft of Georgi's tape, and it was clearly motivated by one particular thing that is going on right now. But the other half, which I have already asked, is: "[... ] or a foreign organization that holds weapons and is militaryly organized or exercises militaryly conducted. "Is that Wagner's so-called company?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U617	Might as well theoretically be this. But once again, Wagner is, as far as I know, a private company that is not officially organised at least nationally. However, being a member of such an organisation may lead, for example, to some kind of crime against humanity or an act of aggression, which in the same way exists in the Citizenship Act as a single provision that it may be the basis for a decision on grounds of consideration to deprive a person of his nationality. So here we need to look at a number of dimensions of whether a person is committing a specific offence, such as being in a military organisation that you have mentioned, or being part of a state military service or security service. So these options and these considerations are numerous in the Citizenship Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U618	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U619	Thank you. Well, one way to find out that someone's fighting on the separatist side, for example, is that he puts a picture of Facebook and himself declares he's fighting. This is the way to find out, but it is not easy for those who hide. I know that there are separatists in Estonia who are playing around here, who are in action, one can say, the men on the lists of those who have been declared very dangerous in Ukraine. They're moving on our territory, and I'm sure you know that as Minister of the Interior. The interest is, how are we going to find out the names of these characters through our proactive behavior?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U620	Thank you. This is actually one of the daily tasks of the Defence Police Department to deal with these issues, among other things, in order to identify people who have started fighting on the side of the Russian Federation, for example, but have Estonian citizenship or residence permit in Estonia, being citizens of the Russian state. So this is the day-to-day work of the Defence Police Department, and I'm sure they'll be very successful in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U621	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U622	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of the Interior! We were talking to Wagner and Wagner-like organisations, which are actually private security companies in the service of hostile countries. Perhaps this definition of "military exercises in a foreign organization" does not cover it. Should we not try to put such a definition here, let us say directly that private security companies such as Wagner, who are clearly in the service of hostile countries and pursue hostile goals, could also be mentioned here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U623	Thank you. A good suggestion, I'm sure you can consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U624	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U625	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! Well, I see this bill is definitely a step forward, but it's a half-step again. It says here that Estonian citizenship can be taken away, but it should be written here that Estonian citizenship will be taken away. Why is there no such specific approach and leaving such consideration? There's nothing to consider, and they're the ones that have to be taken away and sent to the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U626	Thank you. In today's Citizenship Act, there is an imperative provision that must be removed if there is no prior government authorisation, and that is exactly what we are coming to change today so that it is not imperative. The example is what I mentioned here, for example, that a Ukrainian who has acquired Estonian citizenship by naturalisation, who goes to Ukraine to fight for Ukraine, must, in any case, be deprived of citizenship in an impervious manner, without any decision to exercise discretion, in accordance with today's Citizenship Act. The aim is now to create a decision to consider that if a person's actions do not pose a threat to public policy or national security, it can be considered, it is not imperative. That's what we want to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U627	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is now invited to the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U628	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 19 April. Minister of the Interior Kristian Jaani, Deputy Chancellor of the Interior and Civil Society Raivo Küüt and Adviser to the Minister of the Interior Riho Kangur were invited. The minister gave an overview of this bill, just like here in the saalisk. For the attention of colleagues, also to Heiki Hepner: the current law says that Estonian citizenship is taken away from a person who has entered foreign state or military service as a citizen of Estonia without the permission of the Government of the Republic. Now this is the kind of place that's the problem. I think that none of the members of the Commission thought that this was a very good provision that the Government of the Republic must decide each time for one person or another who has received Estonian citizenship under naturalisation, whether to allow him to join the foreign army or not. Actually, it's absurd. I think that if the Government of the Republic didn't have to do this, it would be appropriate, and that is why this bill has come here. The second reason is that today is an imperative. As Heiki asked, they are indeed automatically taken away, but today everyone is automatically taken away, regardless of whether it is a threat to public order and security or not, regardless. It's imperative, and the government doesn't have a chance to consider it. That, of course, cannot be considered right either. Thirdly, on the occasion of the meeting of the Commission: several colleagues, in my opinion, raised a very relevant question as the state of Estonia should tolerate the war of naturalisation in the military of another country, with the exception of our allied states, NATO countries. This is, in fact, a very fundamental question of how much we could or should tolerate it at all. But in view of the latter, it would be particularly incomprehensible that the Government of the Republic has to start considering every time someone wants to go there. Let us put it straight: this practice has not been implemented, no one has turned to me, I do not know, but I think I dare say so, never to the Government of the Republic in order to obtain this authorisation. But I will say it once again: it concerns only those people who have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation, not those who are born citizens. It was a matter of principle. The question then was also that if someone had taken an oath to foreign armed forces or military service, that would be enough. That is theoretically enough, even under this provision. If you read this provision, it states that who has joined a foreign state or military service. That doesn't necessarily mean you have to prove some kind of crime, these grounds will remain anyway. They are also included in the Citizenship Act today that if a crime has been committed in accordance with the paragraphs of the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Penal Code. But once again, this is enough for this discretion. I think that this discretion could and should be as broad as possible for the government to avoid similar cases that have actually taken place. Perhaps two more comments that came as suggestions in this Chamber. Once again: this is a government bill, this bill is made by Parliament, and Parliament has the power to make changes and clarifications here. With regard to the proposal in the hall to write down here in such a way that those who have taken up hostile foreign state and military service, I honestly say that I too had the desire and desire to distinguish between friendly and hostile countries. Otherwise, if someone goes into the army of a friendly country, he also wonders if the government is considering it, maybe I'll be taken away from my naturalisation citizenship. It's not sure if he's gonna take it or not. Earlier, when you went and took the license , there was no risk of that. This is one of the places to think about whether it can be distinguished by some additions in the text of the law. In itself, if there were "a hostile foreign state or military service" here, perhaps the word "negligible" would fit in front of it, but while he is in a foreign country, I don't know, military exercises in a practicing organization, it may be that this country itself is not hostile, you know, but this organization in this country is hostile. But if we put the word "negligible" in front of it, we will immediately assess in the bud, making such a decision that this country itself is also hostile to us. In certain cases, I am not going to name these countries, there is no question that this is a hostile state, there is no question. But it is not only about entering state or military service, but when you read the text of the bill, you will see that there is also a foreign organisation carrying out military exercises here. And now this part of the sentence is that if it poses a threat to public order or national security. I mean, I think there's still a place to weigh. Perhaps it is a little unreasonable to put this "neathy" in front of us, because then we will make an assessment of the state as well, perhaps the state itself is not hostile to us, and the state as a whole is not a threat to the Estonian state or to public order, but it is a military organisation operating in that country. It must therefore be considered. Another remark that was here: if it poses a threat to public policy or national security, either put the word "Estonia" in place here. Indeed, this is the general place of weighing. I also looked at other laws, such as the Aliens Act. Here too, for example, is a provision which, by the way, is highly appropriate to recall that a temporary residence permit will be revoked if the alien's activity poses a threat to public policy or national security. Here's two nuances. One is that it is general everywhere without emphasising Estonia. In that sense, if we want to put "Estonia" in front of it, then we have to consider it and then we should actually change it in other laws sooner or later. But perhaps it is clear here that we cannot talk about the public order and security of another country, just our own Estonian state. Perhaps this general wording can only apply to Estonia. If that can be interpreted, there is no need to put the word "Estonia" in front of it. Another reason why I stress that. There has also been a lot of talk about this: if citizenship is taken away, whether this person cannot automatically enter Estonia or whether we can automatically send him out. That's not enough. If he is deprived of his naturalisation citizenship, especially if he does not have the nationality of another country, then there is a problem, but in order to live here, he needs a temporary residence permit. It was not in vain that I read this provision to you that it is possible to take away a temporary residence permit. The basis and justification are exactly the same: the threat to public order and national security. If we take away the residence permit, it is indeed not possible for this person either to come to Estonia or we have the right to send him out of here. So this, too, is a very important imperative, otherwise the question arises that okay, let's take away the naturalisation acquired citizenship, but he's taking it easy on here and there's nothing we can do about it. It is not merely the basis for his expulsion, unless he has committed certain crimes, but it is actually possible to expel him or her from the country by withdrawing a temporary residence permit. The Commission took the following procedural decisions. First, to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 4 May, but this date we changed or the Riigikogu Board changed because the minister was on a mission that day. The decision was consensual. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. The decision was also consensual. Thirdly, appoint Toomas Kivimägi, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to represent the commission. The decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U629	There's a question for you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U630	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, Thomas! It was mentioned here that so far there has been such an imperative decision to be taken. I'll read it out and ask you if you think otherwise: "1) Who is the subject of a conviction verdict against humanity or the act of aggression or the §es of the Penal Code [... ] laid down for the offence;'. In my opinion, be Ukrainian, be Finn, Latvian, whoever you are, it doesn't matter what country citizen you've been before, once you've received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation. Of course, we should take it off. Or do you think it's different?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U631	Thank you. I certainly don't feel any different about the examples you gave me, but once again I'm saying that you understand what today's problem is. The problem is that some people who have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation are fighting for us on the side of friendly countries. The question now arises that we should also automatically take it away from them. There is a part for us on the side of non-friendly countries, which also represents a threat to our public order and security. That is why we have to consider, but I think that neither you nor anyone else has the slightest doubt that the government will make this decision and take away citizenship. I do not think there is any need to doubt this at all; the question really is how to make these people [certain]. I also asked the Commission how many people this really, let us say, can be affected today. I do not have these very accurate data, but these data are certainly available in certain institutions. I think that these first decisions of the government resulting from this law on the withdrawal of citizenship granted under the naturalisation procedure will certainly also come. We say directly that those people who have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation and who are fighting on the Ukrainian side should automatically be deprived of Estonian citizenship according to the law in force, as none of them has asked permission from the Government of the Republic. Once again, this authorisation system is certainly not logical or justified. Once again: our general attitude and, as I understand it, the attitude of the Government of the Republic is that we do not really favour the fighting of people who have Estonian citizenship in foreign armed forces, except, of course, in the armed forces of our allies, NATO and other partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U632	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U633	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this draft is, of course, worth discussing, and hopefully it will also create a certain degree of legal clarity when dealing with it here in the Riigikogu. However, I do think that, indeed, when it comes to crimes against humanity, at least on this first point, it is clear in the day that there is nothing to discuss, citizenship should be taken away, this imperative side is understandable. In my opinion, there is nothing to question or discuss at all. On this other side, indeed, I understand, the Commission has also broken its head on how to do it. But again, I very much believe that it really does not make sense to ask for permission from the Government of the Republic. I couldn't agree more. But here we must find such a solution that we will not bring national bureaucracy anywhere else, because indeed, if it is still armed forces of a state that is hostile to the Estonian state or military exercises that threaten the security of Estonia, then it does not matter which country's citizen it is. If he's dealing with them, then the same naturalisation citizenship should be taken away from him. Yes, it is. I agree with you, Thomas, that this does not mean that we can automatically send him out of the country every time. But that is why we have no reason to keep him as a citizen of our country. Of course, then we must act so that we can finally expel him from the country. At times, however, attempts are being made at this point in time to say how this practice is to give citizenship to those who have been punished by criminal law. In fact, it should be treated in such a way that those who have been convicted of criminal offences would not have the right to Estonian citizenship by naturalisation. We do not need to create such a citizenship; we have problems without it. If we take these views, it will actually happen proactively. It disciplines many people who would like to have citizenship. Indeed, part of the decisions taken before 9 May was preventive, so that people would not break our legal order, precisely with the feeling that they could lose their visa immediately. Really, the police applied these techniques. I don't know if I appreciate it enough, but it's pretty good. This kind of behaviour creates a certain degree of security not only for our own citizens, but also, to some extent, precludes violations of the law. So it is really a proposal to think and rephrase it so that those who stand out by their actions, citizens who are naturalised, are taken away from them [citizenship]. There's nothing to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U634	Toomas Kivimägi, speaking from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U635	Thank you, Mr President. I totally agree with the previous speaker. I have sent a message to the Minister that the same points that have now been unwritten here, point 1 and point 2 would actually be divided into two parts. One is what is imperative, and the other is what is discretion. The same example, which is an imperative, and I think that no one has any doubt that it could be an imperialist: a conviction for a crime against humanity or aggression has entered into force. I don't think anyone has any doubt that there's anything to consider here. I think it could be struck [out]: one is an imperative and the other is where there is discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U636	There are no further requests to speak. The Minister would like a final word. The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Stay calm. Everything's under control. Mr. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U637	Good manager! I simply state that this anti-humanity aggression was introduced as a consideration because we do not want to be bound by the legal system of another country. The point of this provision was that a person has been convicted of such a crime in the Russian Federation, for example, and we can question whether a person convicted of such a crime in the Russian Federation has been convicted on the basis of all legal principles. Example: In the naturalization procedure, the Ukrainian has acquired Estonian citizenship, he is found guilty in Russia for aggression. This has nothing to do with the Estonian penal system; it does not contain a provision of the Estonian Penal Code, but, at all, when a person has been convicted. That was the point of this thing. That is why it is precisely as a consideration that we can also assess how this trial has taken place in that other country. That was the point of this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U638	Okay, now I'm gonna finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 582. I don't see any other suggestions. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U639	Amendment 13... I'm sorry! The 13th item is the first reading of the draft law supplementing the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, social... I think it's the night. Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U640	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will brief you on the draft law supplementing the state fee law. The main objective of this proposal for amendment of the law is to support and help health workers from Ukrainian refugees who have reached Estonia so that they can find work faster, more conveniently and at lower cost in Estonia, integrate the Estonian health care system in the best way and start providing the necessary health services to people. The proposal exempts health professionals granted temporary protection from the obligation to pay the state fee both in recognition of their qualifications and when they wish to register themselves as health professionals in different registers. In accordance with the principle of equal treatment, this applies to all beneficiaries of international protection and beneficiaries of temporary protection, i.e. not only to Ukrainian war refugees, but also to other people who on similar grounds, for similar reasons, for example, are forced to leave their home country because of war or other such persecution. This specific change applies in such a way that people have the right to prove their qualification free of state fees or register for a period of one year after obtaining a residence permit on the basis of international protection. Logic here is that, probably at the beginning of the year, people will have more problems economically, more problems even if they are settled, [and should] be supported in the first months, or in the first year, when people are trying to start a new life here, either temporarily or permanently. This change is valid for an indefinite period, which means that it will potentially continue to apply to similar crises in the future. But, as I was referring to, this exemption applies to every person within one year of being granted a residence permit. The costs involved are modest, as we did not take into account the registration of such a greater number of beneficiaries of international protection as a health worker in the planning of the state budget. Of the current beneficiaries of temporary protection, it is estimated that 2% to 3% may be representatives of different health professions. Of course, they are not all going to work and they may not all stay in Estonia at all in the long term. So we do not regard the financial view as significant for this draft. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U641	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U642	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, the 9700 euro bill is this, and if now medical doctors come from Ukraine, they will be released from professional competence after the state fee. I'm really scared to hear that. My own brother studied at the University of Tartu for seven years, then went to the United States and had to start [at the end], despite all these seven years, before he was not allowed access to the American body. Now they come, of course they don't speak the language, they may have competence, but it's still very, very different in different countries. Do I understand [right] that now that a Ukrainian medic, doctor, nurse, dentist, pharmacist comes here, he's about to get the door open? The fee is still a small thing, for a bunch of 9700s in total for a year. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But even professional competence is no longer important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U643	Thank you. I am happy to answer this question because, in this case, you seem to have understood the substance of the draft somewhat inaccurately. This draft concerns only the obligation to pay the state fee, the exemption from it. The draft does not change any qualification requirements, i.e. those conditions, the standards that apply to the different legislation on working in Estonia as a health care worker. The prerequisite must be that the qualifications, work experience, education and training levels of these people meet sufficiently high requirements in Estonia, so that they can actually register in the register of health professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U644	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U645	Yeah. I read it thoroughly, even several times. But what is the point of paying the state fee to get into the register if you do not comply with the requirements in Estonia? I am not going to say that he does not speak Estonian, that he does not speak local, that is clear. But these differences are very large, including between Ukraine and Estonia. Explain to me what this is all about. A fee, but there's no point in putting yourself in the register if you can't work here in the specialty where you worked in Kharkiv or Kiev before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U646	Thank you. Once again, the prerequisite is that a person's qualification and acquired education meet the requirements of the Estonian state. Hypothetically, I can give a simple example, the Ukrainian war refugee may also have completed education in any country of the European Union. He may have acquired it on a level that meets our requirements. If it is, it can really be recognised and applied for in the register as a health worker without a state fee. However, whether it meets the requirements or does not meet the requirements, whether or not it receives a letter of entry in the register, depends on whether its qualification and the documents submitted by it meet the national requirements of Estonia. We do not make a discount on qualifications, work experience or education here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U647	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! By the Social Affairs Committee, Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U648	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Minister! The draft presented above was discussed at the Social Affairs Committee meeting on 2 May. Siret Kotka, Hele Everaus, Kert Kingo, Helmen Kütt, Luck Pillak, Priit Sibul, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassiliev and Tiiu Aro participated. The Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik, introduced the bill in the same way that he did in front of us today. Maybe I'm not gonna count it and introduce it to you. A debate followed. Kert Kingo asked why legislative changes are being made on the basis of the current situation rather than resolving the issues raised by a decree of the Government of the Republic. The Minister replied that the amendment of the state fee must, however, change the law. The amendment relates to a narrow target group, which is mentioned by way of exception in the law. Kert Kingo then asked whether those Estonian people who have completed health education abroad still had to pay the state fee. In such a case, there is no equal treatment. Minister Tanel Kiik replied that equal treatment can be given to people in an equal position. In this case, they are people who have left their home country and have to acquire language requirements in the country of destination. If an Estonian citizen has completed an education in Estonia, the state fee is 13 euros, if he has acquired it abroad, it is likely to have been his conscious and free choice. This is not comparable to a situation where a person leaves his home country because of war and is now looking for a professional job. The Minister also noted that the majority of Estonian health professionals have completed their education here in Estonia. Helmen Kütt referred to the explanatory memorandum to the draft, which states that, in order to ensure equal treatment of persons, the provisions of the draft have been extended to all persons who have been granted a residence permit under the Act granting international protection within one year of receiving a residence permit. As a result, he asked whether the change in question would therefore extend to all foreigners who had obtained a residence permit under this law. Tanel swing said yes. That concludes the debate. Procedural decisions followed. First of all, it was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 11 May. There was consensus here; all the members of the above-mentioned committee were in favour. Secondly, to appoint a speaker as the representative of the lead committee, and also to be consensual. The third was the proposal to conclude the first reading. There were 7 members of the Commission: Tiiu Aro, Hele Everaus, Siret Kotka, Helmen Kütt, Õnn Pillak, Marika Tuus-Laul and Viktor Vassilyev. No one opposed. There were 2: Kert Kingo and Priit Sibul. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U649	There's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Anti Half Office, please! It wasn't? By accident? Then there are no requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of [the draft] 598. I don't see any other suggestions. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U650	Our 14th item is the draft law amending the Employment Working Conditions Act and Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please, Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U651	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am also happy to give an overview of this bill, i.e. the Act amending the Employment Working Conditions Act and the Employment Contracts Act [proposal] 599. This concerns the working conditions of posted workers and is due in particular to the European Commission's letter to Estonia dated 15 July last year on the opening of infringement proceedings. In this case, Estonia is accused of not complying with our national law with Directive 2014/67/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the posting of workers in connection with the provision of various services. We need to bring this directive and our national law into line this year and we have prepared the corresponding amendments. The prerequisite for the Directive is that posted workers have the right to claim remuneration from the person who ordered the subcontracting if the employer fails to pay the employee for any reason. The regulation under the Directive was transposed in the case of posted workers, but an equivalent right was not guaranteed for local workers. The European Commission therefore considered that these provisions resulting from the Directive did not apply equally to foreign and domestic service providers in this case which infringe the prohibition of non-discrimination. This is how we give local service providers a competitive advantage. Consequently, a provision laying down the following principles is included in the Employment Contracts Act. A worker working in the construction sector will have the right to claim remuneration not only from his direct employer, but also from the person who ordered subcontracting, i.e. the company that ordered the construction work, i.e. his employer. The employee can claim remuneration if his direct employer fails to fulfil his obligation to pay the salary and the enforcement procedure against him has been unsuccessful for four months, i.e. he has not been able to obtain the promised remuneration within four months, and the employee's claim to the person who ordered the subcontracting, i.e. the person who ordered the work by the employer, is limited to the minimum wage, i.e. no longer to its original basic salary, but to the minimum wage. The person sub-contracting shall not be liable to pay remuneration if he or she has behaved with due diligence of the undertaking. Logic is that if the company that ordered the job is convinced, for example, that its subcontractor is a proper, well-managed institution or company with proper payment behaviour and has no reason to believe that it is unable to pay out these salaries, then in the event of any such problems it will not be obliged to do so either. Logic is that if a shell company or company that clearly has difficulties in payment has been hired or subcontracted knowingly or unintentionally, the person who ordered the subcontracting will be liable to the employees. Similar regulation already applies to posted workers. In addition, some minor technical changes are made to the Working Conditions of Posted Workers Act. For example, some concepts are clarified, the concept of the provision of services is replaced by the narrower term "subcontracting' resulting from the Directive, which is actually one of the points of comment. It also reduces the time limit after which the posted worker can lodge a claim for remuneration against the person who ordered the subcontracting. As I referred to earlier, it will be four months instead of six months to speed up and make it easier for people to get their pay. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U652	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U653	Good manager! Good waitress! Another directive has not been transposed, this 2014/67/EU, now in 2022, where we are now. What if we don't take over for some reason? So what happens, what kind of sanctions would we expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U654	Thank you. I have to admit, I can't say the exact penalty rate right now. The logic is that the European Commission will assess the compatibility of national law with the Directive and, if we do not bring it into line, we may be referred to the European Union Court of Justice and the Court may in turn require the necessary measures, which may be both the different basic amounts and the obligations to pay the periodic penalty payments. But these sums would be revealed in the course of the dispute. I think that, given the relatively small impact and technical nature of these amendments, it makes sense for us to make these changes in national law, and thus to close this dispute and the infringement procedure in good time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U655	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U656	Yes, I have been reading it a lot, but maybe you will be briefing us on what really needs to be done with this directive in order not to get into Brussels's anger and to get a possible punishment. What are these things if they were to be in rural language and as clearly as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U657	In fact, in this case, the draft prepared by the Ministry must be approved. I've already introduced the contents once. Perhaps we would indeed create this legal regulation so that the law on the working conditions of posted workers and the law on the employment contract comply with the provisions of the directive in order to have the right and the possibility, in certain cases, to recover remuneration, as I described, from the person who ordered subcontracting. We will also make some technical clarifications concerning the period and also the concept of service provision. In this case, we are talking about the construction sector, the construction sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U658	No further questions. Thank you! The view of the Social Committee is given by the Luck Hillak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U659	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister! The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft on 2 May. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, and Dana Kadanik, Adviser to the Labour and Personnel Policy Department, had presented the draft. The debate on this draft in the Commission, I would say, was urgent and constructive. There were some questions, but the minister made an overview of them here. For example, one question was about shortening the same deadline from six months to four months. Or how, for example, the subcontractor can check that the person from whom he orders the work was correct in the past. When this debate was over, the Commission took the following decisions: It was decided, by consensus, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the 599 plenary session today, 11 May, to conclude the first reading and to set ten working days for the amendments. In consensus, it was decided to appoint me as rapporteur for the commission, the Luck Hill. Thank you. I'll answer the question if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U660	They don't show. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U661	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U662	I'm opening negotiations. That's not what I want, I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. We have completed the first reading of Bill 599. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U663	We have clearly reached our last item today: the first reading of the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance and the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiik!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U664	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A very beautiful symbolic number, 600 SE, to sum up today. But the subject is important. The amendment of the Psychiatric Assistance Act and the Health Services Organisation Act involves, you can say, two different issues. I'll deal with them in a row. First of all, according to the proposal, we are transferring the funding of psychiatric coercive care from the state budget to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund from 1 July this year and this treatment will be added to the list of funded health care services. Indeed, at the moment, some of the health care services have remained as an historic legacy beyond other sources of funding, but gradually we have transferred them to the health insurance fund in recent years and now psychiatric coercion is in the hands of psychiatric coercion. The Health Insurance Fund already checks all medical bills for psychiatric and essential psychiatric care on the basis of a contract and, for example, pays essential psychiatric assistance to uninsured people, including the provision of care beyond will to health care providers. In order to harmonise this, we will now also include the entire compulsory psychiatric care service provided by the court in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The second half of the draft, which we added with the active participation and support of the Social Affairs Committee, deals with various changes in order to improve the availability of mental health care for the people of Estonia. Here too, changes in funding schemes, financing arrangements, as well as legal clarifications, are important. We want to create the necessary foundations so that the health insurance fund can start direct contracts with psychology practitioners to finance psychotherapy. Today, the Health Insurance Fund also finances the relevant service, or psychotherapy, but at the first level it is financed only through the family doctor's therapy fund. This amendment also allows the Health Insurance Fund to conclude direct contracts with psychology practitioners to finance psychotherapy in the future. This will certainly contribute to the availability of mental health services in a context where people's awareness and expectations of them have increased. But also due to both the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia's military activities in Ukraine, there has certainly been a further increase in the need for professional mental health assistance. This is an important step, among others, to improve the availability of these services. With the required volumes, the financing of psychotherapy through the therapeutic fund creates a considerable administrative burden for family doctors. More and more psychology practices tend to favour the growing private market for services financed by the therapeutic fund and those who continue to provide the service often ask patients for so-called "own contribution" to the costs [to cover]. Limited access to services at primary level means increasing pressure on specialist psychiatric care. In fact, it is also unsustainable in the perspective of the financing model, as we see that this treatment gap, the gap in access to treatment between a more prosperous and vulnerable population, is growing. It does not, of course, match the solidarity health system. Of course, we have discussed these changes with people in the field, both with the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and with experts in mental health. In our opinion, the fastest and best possible alternatives in the current situation are to change the legal framework of the health care organisation in the view of both the state and the service providers and patients so that the health insurance fund can start direct contracts with the psychotherapy practices referred to. The legislative changes that are necessary for this purpose. First of all, we bring into law a new legal term to celebrate the main activity of psychology practice, or psychotherapy. We want to include in the Health Services Organisation Act a new type of health care, or psychological treatment, which is psychotherapy and diagnostic support for the treatment of people with mental and behavioural disorders. We also provide for a licence requirement for the provision of psychological treatment in the law. In order for the Health Insurance Fund to be able to conclude contracts with service providers, it is necessary that the relevant authorities have assessed the service providers and are satisfied that they are suitable for the provision of the relevant service. This work is done by the Estonian Health Board. We also exclude clinical psychologists from those involved in the provision of healthcare and include them under the category "person treated as a health worker." This may sound technically, but it is important that this step helps to create the necessary foundations so that companies of clinical psychologists wishing to operate without a doctor can obtain a licence to operate independently and start providing psychological treatment to patients on the basis of a referral from a doctor. Also, and this is at least as important, clinical psychologists have the right to send data directly from the health information system. So far, they have had to use family doctors' treatment summaries, they have sent them encrypted e-mails, which also do not match the modern understanding of e-health. The psychological treatment financed by health insurance is still provided by a doctor's referral, and the decision on mental and behavioural disorders will continue to be made by the doctor, which will not change. The activities of clinical psychologists already active in family practice and hospitals can also continue on current grounds. These amendments are planned to enter into force as a matter of urgency from 1 July, but a number of them require a certain transitional period. For example, the Health Board will start receiving applications for the licences referred to on 1 August this year, and according to the draft, it is proposed that those wishing to provide independent psychological treatment must comply with these new requirements from 1 January 2023. Of course, these changes do not solve all the challenges in the field of mental health, but they are another step towards improving access to these services for people, actually reducing the bureaucratic side, and the flow of data would also be more adequate and rapid, which is critical for every provision of health care. Thank you! I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U665	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U666	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It's like the Bigfoot Bill now. What about the $7 million that's now going to be used for the so-called compulsive treatment of the bounty there? The background is, I've heard that all those who need more serious treatment than they can't, and from time to time what happens is that a brother has to go, say, catch a brother out of control a little bit, so that this mother doesn't kill. You could tell stories like that. Is that all the funding for that ugly-ass leg? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What's the bounty like now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U667	Yes, when we are now talking about so-called coercive treatment, we are really talking about patients for whom it has been appointed by the court. There are problems with service locations, i.e. they are not enough. According to the law, everyone who has been given compulsory treatment must provide this service, but it is often physically done under conditions where a sufficient number of patients are not actually able to receive it, so that there must be continuous optimisation and flexible response. We also have quite large plans and proposals, at Viljandi Hospital, for the whole part of this coercive treatment, as well as for the renovation, renewal of Jämejala, which we also hope to receive financial support, so that this environment will also be modern and responsive to real demand. This money, which has been allocated to the Ministry of Social Affairs, has been insufficient for years. We have requested additional funding from the state budget to finance compulsory treatment. Also, the amount that we have planned for the Ministry of Social Affairs in the state budget goes, so to speak, to the health insurance fund, but for the rest of the deficit, you have to find money from the health insurance fund's budget, as with other health care services. I can say the exact numbers afterwards, I don't want to be mistaken in my head, but we are talking about millions of euros here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U668	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U669	Yeah. I'm sorry to ask you such a question, but I'm talking about going to the health fund. I don't want there to be any meaningful connection, but there's just a connection to the Health Insurance Fund. In the meantime, the activities of the Health Development Institute were very intense by cutting up and taking the health fund into orbit. How far is this thing now?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U670	Thanks for asking. Yeah, these two are completely different things. In this case, the debate that we are handing over the funding of psychiatric coercive treatment to the Health Insurance Fund was already in the budgetary process last year, in the autumn of last year. At the time, there was an agreement that, since these budgetary resources were on the line of the Ministry for a little over half a year, this transition would take place from 1 July, and in the future these funds would move along, as I pointed out. Viljandi Hospital is also aware that the contract for the financing of psychiatric coercive care has been concluded with the Ministry until 30 June. Next, they plan to do what Parliament will do if it approves the law, with the Health Insurance Fund. This other half, or the National Institute for Health Development, in this case, has nothing to do with this bill. Today's discussions on how to circle the work of different organisations in the field of health, how to organise it, how to organise it, how to reallocate and reduce duplication of institutions or functions are, in the end, a merger of institutions, and all this is still becoming clear. No decision has been taken either to merge or to abolish any institution. Now, just in case, I'm gonna give you that financial volume. We have accounted for EUR 6.8 million by 2022 to finance psychiatric coercive care. At the moment, half of it has been accounted for and booked by the Ministry until 30 June, and there is really a presumption that it will be taken over by the Health Insurance Fund. On behalf of the Health Insurance Fund, we will also submit the necessary additional funding requests, together with other health applications, for the country's budgetary strategy process. As I have pointed out in the past, of course, the healthcare sector's own funding is insufficient to ensure access to long-term healthcare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U671	No further questions. Thank you! It is now up to the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs whether the deadline for amendments is 25 May or 26 May. You have to make it quick to stay on May 25th. Now, please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-11_U672	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, in two minutes, I probably won't be able to tell you what was done in the Committee on Social Affairs. It's embarrassing, but it's just like that. When the Government of the Republic initiated a draft on 21 April on the amendment of the Psychiatric Assistance Act and the Health Services Act, i.e. the Bill 600, the draft was two-point and concerned the amendment of the Psychiatric Assistance Act and the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act. In other words, just as the Minister introduced it here at the beginning, while speaking more broadly about the draft that is currently under way today, it was about the fact that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will be transferred from 1 July 2022 to the financing of psychiatric coercion for insured persons and uninsured persons. As a good colleague, Peeter Ernits asked, indeed, in Estonia there is a willless psychiatric treatment and a court-appointed psychiatric coercion service at Viljandi Hospital. The same draft, which was initiated by the Government on 21 April, was discussed by the Social Affairs Committee at its meeting on 2 May. Tanel Kiik, Minister of Health and Labour, and Vootele Veldre, political designer of the Department of Mental Health, participated. The Minister explained what this bill is, what I told you earlier here. The Minister said that the current draft was intended to complement and add changes concerning the availability of mental health services. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors, specialists in the field of mental health, Ministry, Health Board and Estonian Health Insurance Fund have been negotiated, which is proposed by the Ministry, and if the Social Affairs Committee agrees, these changes could be included in the current draft. When the chairman of the committee, Siret Kotka, asked whether the amendments were intended to be included before the draft was sent to first reading, the minister replied that if the Commission so decided, it would be possible to process the draft as a whole. Indeed, the Commission was of the opinion that this could be added and that it could come to the first reading as a further change compared to the text of the initiators. It can be said that already on 5 May, the Minister for Health and Labour addressed the Committee on Social Affairs with proposals to complete the draft. At the same session, on 2 May, Voote Veldre was given the floor to introduce the legal changes aimed at improving the organisation of access to psychological assistance. In order to provide better mental health services to the population, it is necessary to adjust the framework for the organisation of health care. After the presentation, the members of the Commission asked a number of questions. Both Tiiu Aro and Kert Kingo asked that the challenge in rural areas is to find psychologists, and what can be done in concrete terms to solve such a problem. The Minister replied that funding for the professional year for clinical psychologists was guaranteed from the state budget, the decision was already taken during the previous government, in addition to the money given during the government to provide a wider invitation to both clinical psychologists and school psychologists, and the consensus agreement with health care and educational stakeholders provides for an increase in the number of nurses and other health professionals, which will improve the growth of health professionals. There were a number of other questions, such as whether this change had been negotiated with the Foundation Viljandi Hospital and whether the Ministry had involved the hospital in preparing the draft. The minister said yes, it's taken into account, the contracts have been signed. A good colleague, Peter Ernits, asked again about money. Indeed, contracts are currently concluded until 31 June and have been concluded for half the amount foreseen in the national budget. The state budget 2022 provides for EUR 6858318, and the agreement, which is dated 31 June, has been signed for EUR 3429159, so that half of this money is now already available through the Health Insurance Fund and no longer allocated through the Ministry of Social Affairs. On 2 May, decisions were also taken, and those decisions were all consensual, as you were told in advance. Firstly, there was a proposal to put the [draft] on the plenary agenda on 11 May 2022. Two minutes before that deadline fell, I got to the remote, but now it's the 12th. Secondly, appoint a speaker, Helmen Kütt, to represent the lead committee before you. It was decided to present the draft as amended at first reading and to propose that the first reading be terminated. All were consensual decisions. The next Social Affairs Committee meeting took place on 9 May. We once again listened to the political designer from the mental health department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Vootele Veldret, and advisor Helen Trelin of the Health System Development Department. The chairman of the committee mentioned that at the meeting of the Commission on 2 May we have already examined the additional amendments that we wish to include in the draft before being sent to first reading. These changes were also introduced, discussed as regards the provision and better management of psychological treatment, and also gives the right and opportunity to negotiate directly with the health insurance fund with psychology practitioners. The questions that were asked related to forced treatment in Viljandi Hospital, whether this change concerns people in prison in Tartu, for example. Helen Trelin replied that the question concerned sending the defendants to Viljandi Hospital for compulsory treatment, in which case they would be assigned to Viljandi Hospital and the persons would be serving part of their sentence there. It was also wanted to know whether the text of the ministerial regulation would be sent to us before the third reading, because we would like to examine the draft implementing act before the third reading. Vootele Veldre confirmed that it would be sent to the Commission. The Commission decided to approve the draft documents at first reading, which was a consensual decision. Today this reading took place and to you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu, the draft has been submitted, which was not exactly what was initiated on 21 April, but which is certainly better. The opinions of several parties have already arrived, for example, today the support letter of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors arrived. It is thanked that such changes have been included, saying that this is a very necessary, human-centred and long-awaited decision to improve the availability of mental health-related assistance to people, and it deserves the professionalisation of mental health professionals as independent health professionals. That's all I have to report. This was the case at two meetings of the Commission. Thank you.
