ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 18th working week on Thursday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I don't see that wish, so let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U2	72 members of the Riigikogu have signed up to be present. A few messages. First of all, I would like to remind you that 15 minutes after the end of today's regular sitting, an additional session of the Riigikogu will begin, where censure will be dealt with. We have received a proposal from the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group to close today's session at 10.30 a.m. Just as yesterday or as with the extensions, this decision requires a two-thirds majority of votes in favour, and we will now vote on it. Let me know who's in favour of finishing today's session at 10:30... I'm sorry! Toomas Järveoja, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U3	Thank you. I have such a question that a letter has come that there will be a debate on mistrust after the end of the regular sitting. It should be at 1:00. But does the minister know that it might happen sooner?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U4	It's been dealt with, right. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Conservative People's Party to close today's sitting at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U5	This proposal is supported by 61 delegates, one against and one abstention. Today's regular session will run until 10:30. This means that at 10:45 a further hearing will be held here to discuss mistrust. And now, separately, there is a need to clarify the agenda. At yesterday's session, we were in the middle of the discussion at second reading of the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, which was initiated by 54 members of the Riigikogu, where amendments are being dealt with. From where we left off yesterday, we'll continue today. Tõnis Möldr has a procedure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U6	Thank you. As in previous days, I will ask once that there are abscondants of the bill. Indeed, 54 members of the Riigikogu have initiated this draft. We know that between the first and second reading, Lauri Läänemets, Helmen Kütt, Eduard Odines, Riina Sikkut, Heljo Pikhof and Jaak Juske withdrew their signature from this bill. And according to my information, this was a decision of the Social Democratic Party's board, yet this signature was not taken back by Raimond Kaljulaid. Can you tell if he's submitted to his party's dictatorship or not? What's the status this morning?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U7	This is really the situation this morning. Those who withdraw from this bill include Eduard Odines, Helmen Kütt, Heljo Pikhof, Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets and Riina Sikkut. No one else has withdrawn their signature since this morning. Tarmo Kruusimäe, procedure please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U8	Thank you, good vice chairman. How should we deal with those who are not among the initiators, or who have missed the opportunity to withdraw their signature?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U9	You don't have to deal with them in any way, they're just assholes. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I now have a queue and a record of how many of these initiators were and some have disappeared. Why don't you read out who's left of the initiators?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U11	Everyone's the initiators. You can't leave the launchers. Some have withdrawn or withdrawn, sorry, their signature from it, but they are counted among the initiators for the rest of their lives. Do you want me to read out all 54 names? Okay, where are we in a hurry? These include members of the Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Ri Rimi Rat, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, Peeter Rahnel, Mikili Jaanus Kari Karili Karilid, Jüri Reim Rem Rake Rats, Mar Mar Me Me Ras Me Ras, Marika Tus-Laul, Natalia Malleus, Siret Kot Kotka, Igor Kravshschenko, Aadu Must, Anastassia Kovvalenko-Kõkpeit, Anastassia Kovvalenko-Kkvar, Tõstassia Kovvalenko-kvar Kokk, Tssul, Ossssssimul, Jürin Mes, Jür Mes Mes, Jür Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes, Natal, Natal Me Mes, Natal Mes, Natal Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Mes, Natal Me Me Me Mes, Natal Me Me Me Me Me Mes, Natal Mes, Natal Mes, Natal Mes, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natals, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natals, Natal Me, Natals, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natals, Natals, Natals, Natal, Natal, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal Me, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal, Natal And, as I said, Odines, Hunter, Pikhof, Juske, West Forests, Sikkut have withdrawn their signature. Now it's the next procedure. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Has there been any infiltration of information on the number of ministerial positions and the seats of the chairman of the committee of the Reform Party which has allowed its support to be withdrawn? And are there any people who can be rewarded among those who have taken their signature back?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U13	No, I haven't been informed of that kind of information, but I'm sure we'll find out someday. Viktor Vassilyev, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U14	Thank you, Mr President. In order for a member of the Riigikogu to be properly evaluated, is it not who has signed, who has withdrawn, who has failed to give, and what is the percentage ratio and how to shape your opinion, would you also read out the names of the members of the Riigikogu who wrote or did not sign anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U15	It doesn't matter, I swear it doesn't matter. That won't be necessary. Let's go to the bill. How many members we have in the Riigikogu, who are and who are not, this is on the Riigikogu website.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U16	Amendment 150 is for us, draft 619. The author of the proposal is Mr Pillak and the lead committee has ignored this. It seems that Mr Keldo would like a word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U17	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U18	Let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U19	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet broken a thousand lines on Amendment 150, and this proposal is presented by Mr Hillak, the lead committee has failed. The Reform Party is asking you to vote on this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U20	The proposal is in favour of 23, against 44. The proposal was not supported. Next to Amendment 151. The performer is also Luck Pillak, the lead committee has ignored. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and I would like to ask for ten minutes' break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U22	Yeah, let's take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U23	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 151, author Luck Pillak, the commission has neglected. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U24	The proposal is in favour of 23, against 43. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. In 15 minutes, we'll reconvene, then we'll meet for an additional sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U25	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the further session of our 7th plenary session, which has been convened by the President of the Riigikogu in accordance with § 49 (3) of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu of this year on 14 June. We've also prepared the agenda, which you'll find on your desks. Now, first it is possible to pass on inquiries or drafts. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U26	The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice in the proceedings of the draft law. The draft has been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U27	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U28	73 Riigikogu ambassadors signed up. According to § 76 of our Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the Riigikogu to have at least half of the membership, or 51 delegates, in order for us to be present at a further session. So we have a good judgment. I also say that during the additional sitting of the Riigikogu the presence will be checked before the vote if a member of the Riigikogu so requests. And the agenda. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session. As I've already said, the agenda has been distributed to your desks. There's actually only one item on the agenda. I am voting on the agenda for the supplementary sitting of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on 16 June. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U29	There are 63 ambassadors in favor of the agenda, against one, the agenda is confirmed. So let's go to the agenda. I'm going to introduce this process, we haven't had any mistrusts for a while. First of all, the representative of the initiators of mistrust will be speaking for up to 20 minutes, with Marko Šorin as the representative of the initiators. Then the Minister will be speaking for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions to the Minister. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the Minister, which shall last up to one minute. The round of questions will be followed by negotiations where political groups can participate. The first to be heard is a representative of a political group or of a political group whose members are the initiators of mistrust. A member of the Government of the Republic is also entitled to make a statement afterwards. This will be followed by a final vote and the minister has been distrusted when the majority of the Riigikogu, or 51 or more, is in favour of censure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U30	Then let's go to the agenda. I would like a speech chair from the Riigikogu, Marko Šorini.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Education and Science! Unfortunately, here in the plenary session of the Riigikogu, we are forced to discuss the mistrust of the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. I sincerely regret the fact that Parliament has to deal with this issue. For the sake of clarity, however, I repeat why we have initiated a motion of mistrust. Liina Kersnal violated public procurement requirements. He has caused economic damage to the state, created unjustified advantages for one particular company, aggravated the business climate and the reputation of the Estonian state. The reason that the wish has been to keep the school open is not enough, as nothing would have prevented you from making a few more phone calls. There weren't that many, and these two or three phone calls wouldn't have put the school in jeopardy. A total of more than 8.7 million euros was awarded in breach of the public procurement procedure, i.e. without a legal tender procedure. The Ministry of Finance has also initiated a misdemeanour procedure in relation to the case. Public procurement aims to ensure the sustainable and efficient use of taxpayers' money. The Minister of Education and Science has misjudged this principle. It has raised the question of why. Using a press-published tool that also contained non-competent answers, the answer to schools being open is not enough. Even if the Minister did not benefit personally, he has broken the law and created an unjustified gain for the companies of his choice. Procurement costing several million euros more than the market price of the rapid tests. A separate subject is big words and promises to stand up for the development of education in Estonian, which is not reflected in decisions and choices. The last Minister of Education who hired new teachers in Estonian for kindergartens and schools with the pilot project "Professional Estonian Teacher in a Group with Russian Languages" launched by the Ministry of Education and Research in 2018 was Jaak Aab. Liina Kersna did not continue to expand this project, so the state has no longer contributed to the development of Estonian-language learning in the same way. By changing the requirements of the Early Childhood Education Act, the quality of education in Estonian does not increase and the lack of necessary teachers does not resolve. It's not enough. The problems of funding higher education are also unresolved. Administrative agreements with higher education institutions have not been concluded and the sustainability of higher education is at stake. This is an unprecedented and unprecedented case, which cannot be dealt with lightly, in the hope that the situation will ease by autumn and that universities themselves will find a solution. The activities of a member of the Government of the Republic must be transparent and honest and in accordance with the laws in force. According to the rule of law, every person must be responsible for the offence, regardless of his or her position or political affiliation. In countries with a higher political culture, the Minister himself would have resigned without waiting for misdemeanour or its outcome. Since no such step has been taken by today's Minister for Education and Science, the initiators of this draft have filed a motion of distrust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U32	Thank you. Now please beg the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U33	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I stand firm in front of you today because I know what I've done, and I know what I haven't done. I know that for the last 16 months, when I have had the opportunity and the honour of working as Minister of Education and Science, I have done my job with commitment, integrity and responsibility, knowing that my decisions have a huge impact. I know that the purpose of my decision has been to support learners of different ages. I haven't made these decisions in all-knowing position. We have a professional team at the Ministry that I trust. In addition, I have been in close contact with various actors in the field of education, rectors, school leaders, teachers from various organisations, school psychologists, other support specialists and students and students. It gives me the confidence to stand before you with a calm heart and a clear eye view. I am accused of three faults: holding schools open with quick tests, long-term under-funding for higher education and sluggish activities in the transition to education in Estonian. Let us take a closer look at these three issues. First of all, getting quick tests. Before the school year began, we decided in the government that schools should be kept in new coronal subjects for contact training. We knew how badly earlier distance training had affected the mental health of our children and young people as well as the learning outcomes. For example, in satisfaction studies, nearly half of the 11th graders said that they were often or always sick of everything. Almost half! The results of the mathematics comprehensive school final examination were 17 percentage points lower than the average in previous years. Let us remind you that in the previous academic year, the ninth graders we tried to save from distance training in the government were, however, 45 days of study in distance training. Forty-five days of study! Analysts have said that 30 days of distance training is almost a year's passing. This year's graduates, or seniors, have studied throughout their upper secondary school in very unstable conditions. Just before the school break in October last year, the Health Board reminded the government that last time the infection increased by 500% after the school break. Therefore, on 14 October, the government instructed the Ministry of Social Affairs to organise the testing of schoolchildren after the school break, or 1 November, in order to detect the disease chains as soon as possible. The government considered that such tests could become regular. At the time, I recall, the infection rates among schoolchildren were very high, the school fires were over 100. The Ministry of Social Affairs set up a preparatory working group for the school test screening project, and the working group included one person from the Ministry of Education and Research. SYNLAB, with whom the country had framework procurement for testing, confirmed that everyone should be tested and that they have the ability to test all children. SYNLAB had specifically piloted the so-called lollipop PCR testing of school pupils at Viimsi school and we had received very positive feedback on this testing. And the price of one test for so-called lollipop testing was just under EUR 5 and would have been added to the whole class PCR test if the virus was detected in this class set. In a situation where more than 500 COVID patients were already present in the hospital, the daily rates of infection were already close to 2000 and the number of school colleges rose rapidly, the specialists of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board thought that schools should be directed towards distance learning after school break, although the government had decided that schools would be directed to distance learning, if at all. But once again, we had the choice that the first thing they wanted to do was put schools into distance learning. From the beginning of the year, it was said to send schools to a distance in areas with higher rates of infection from a few weeks to the beginning of the year. There was also the idea that only schools where at least 75% of school families had been vaccinated could be left out. At the time, there were only a handful of such families. On the first day of school holidays, 25 October, associations of school leaders, teachers, pupils and school support specialists made a public call calling for school holidays to be used for vaccination, as contact training was highly valued. On the same day, it became clear in writing that only 12 of the 520 school tests have been left of the large school screening project. Twelve of the 520s were left! It was absolutely clear that without testing, we could not safely keep schools in contact training in this situation. The next day, a government meeting was held where a solution was needed. We knew in the ministry that there was another company that was also piloted in schools for testing. Selfdiagnostics had sent information about its pilot project to the Ministry of Education and Research as well as to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Irja Lutsar, then head of the scientific council, had also recommended that schools use rapid tests instead of PCR testing. I knew that the same tests had been being used for some time in Austria, where schoolchildren had been tested for a long time, and I had also talked to the Austrian Minister for Education at the time. The representatives of Selfdiagnostics assured us that they would receive tests delivered, transported to schools and training for school families by 1 November. I went to the government with that information and knowledge. The government has entrusted the Ministry of Education and Research with the task of regular rapid testing of students from the age of 7 to 18 since 1 November. Perhaps we had three full working days and two weekend days to arrange tests and arrive at schools. At the same time, reports of local governments' decisions to direct schools to distance learning after school holidays continued. The decisions came from Pärnu, Tallinn, but also from Narva. These decisions were highly criticised, as students who had been vaccinated or had recently suffered from a disease were also directed to distance learning. Two days later, on 28 October, the government allocated EUR 7.5 million to the Ministry of Education and Research for the purchase of rapid school tests. The government gave me a clear guideline that a negotiated contract with a single economic operator without prior publication of a contract notice may be concluded for a maximum period of one month. So we did, and the treaty was signed. The contract with Selfdiagnostics was awarded EUR 5.1 million and in two parts: in the first part, EUR 3.35 million for the 400000 test; in the second part, EUR 2.37 million for the test. And let me remind you: the price of one SYNLAB test was just under EUR 5 at the time, plus the PCR testing of the classes. I remind you, by that time, 589 koronapats were in the hospital, 2,000 people were infected every day. We had 144 active school monsters by that time. And then on Monday, November 1st, the schools had tests, and the school families started testing fast. Right the first week after school break, we identified more than 1,000 fast tests positive among school families. These are the children and teachers who didn't pass on the virus. And it had tangible results. On 18 November, Irja Lutsar, then head of the scientific council, made an overview of the government, stating that the infection rate R has fallen below one. Infection rates have fallen in all counties, in all age groups, and the hospital burden has already shown a trend of decline. Before school break, all trends were reversed. In conclusion, Professor Lutsar stated that the rapid testing of schools had been successful and successful. We were able to keep schools in contact training and to make an effective contribution to reducing the spread of the virus. Can anyone put its impact in euro? Since we were able to conclude a contract for only one month, we had to start preparing the next procurement immediately. We asked for help from the State Support Services Centre on 4 November, who is responsible for public procurement in the country, but unfortunately they estimated that they did not currently have the resources to carry out additional procurement. We had to take care of ourselves again. We accompanied the Health Board, whose experts helped to formulate quality criteria for rapid tests. We also included experts from the Health Board in the evaluation committee. Invitations to the negotiated procedure already went out to 17 companies on 8 November, 12 of which also submitted their tenders. Ten days later, the Procurement Committee decided to declare Medesto Logistics OÜ the winner of the procurement, with whom we signed a contract of EUR 2370000 on 23 November. And the next day we finally reached an agreement with the State Support Services Centre that they will carry out further fast-test procurements in advance of all the standards, because they are the very competent authorities of the Estonian state in the organisation of public procurement. And at the same time in the government, we decided that schools needed speed tests at least until the end of the school year, and there was a new allocation of money. There was hope that the Ministry of Education and Research could finally focus on content in the field of education, not on obtaining medical supplies and doing the work of other government actors. At the end of the year and at the beginning of this year, the omicronth strain began to spread rapidly. The increase in infection was very rapid, 100% among children in weeks, and rapid infection was also demonstrated by the results of the rapid tests in schools. At the end of January, we already identified 5,500 rapid tests of positive schools. And the daily rates of infection also exceeded 5,000. At the same time, for example, at 23 January, we had only 31 active school monsters. It showed that the testing worked very well. And then I found out on 21 January, Friday night, that there was a risk of two months of RTK procurement that it would be declared a failure due to a technical error. I spoke to the Prime Minister, spoke to Mr Aab as Minister of Public Administration, and spoke to the Minister of Finance to find solutions, because we knew from the poll that tests were running out in schools. We had to find a solution to deliver quickly and flexibly and quickly to schools in the meantime, by Tuesday, when the government meeting would take place. And on the evening of the same day, we received a written statement from the RTK, where experts had reached the conclusion that the Ministry of Education and Research was able to resolve the lack of rapid tests at the moment by increasing the existing framework agreement. This solution was also suitable for the government. We extended the existing framework agreement and schools quickly obtained the necessary tests. At the end of January, at the beginning of February, we already detected over 6,000 rapid tests positive, and from there the virus levels started to decline. The top was exceeded and schools were mostly in contact education. It is true that now, at the end of the school year, I am in a situation where the Ministry of Finance, which is also a member of the government, is personally accusing me of two misdemeanours: the conduct of a second procurement with a negotiated procedure without prior publication, where the offers went to 17 companies, and the extension of the existing framework agreement on the recommendation of the RTK itself. I have been assured that I have not been convicted. I am under investigation. The second topic, the transition to education in Estonian. Let's see what we've done in 16 months. In the first 100 days of the government, we developed a support measure for Estonian-language schools, where at least 10% of children with different mother tongues study Estonian. Half a million euros of support was received by 23 comprehensive schools. Secondly, in 10 months, an action plan for education in Estonian was drawn up in collaboration with experts until 2035. This is the first thematic document ever created by the Ministry. Thirdly, we have developed sectoral supervision in Russian-speaking schools to deliberately and essentially promote the quality of education in Estonian. Monitoring is planned in 12 Russian-speaking schools, five municipalities. Eight schools have been attended today and the results will come in autumn. We have submitted the Early Childhood Education Act to the Riigikogu, as you know, which would abolish kindergarten groups where the study activities are not carried out in Estonian. The coordination circle currently has a regulation on the harmonisation of teacher qualifications and language requirements, which sets, among other things, language requirements for teachers in addition to qualifications requirements. And to remind you, 2300 educators today do not properly speak the official language. We have ordered 28 extra places in Narva College for EUR 450000 to teach teachers in multilingual schools or kindergartens. The volume of further training has doubled. We are raising language level requirements in the national curriculum and in the national upper secondary school curriculum so that ninth grade graduates do not graduate at the B1 level but at the B2 level and upper secondary schools at the B2 level, but at the C1 level. And we will also increase the number of lessons learned in Estonian at first school. On the basis of the Estonian-language development agenda, we state Kohtla-Järve Järve School, which is the only Estonian-language school in the region. And the negotiations will also take place in Sillamäe, based on the action plan expert group. We supported the transition from two large Russian-language comprehensive schools in Ida-Viru County to an early immersion school by the government. This means that 100% of the first grade is taught in Estonian. And now, good former coalition partners! I hope you have read the government's 100-day work schedule, because the government's 100-day work plan states that the "+1 teacher" project must be expanded in kindergartens and schools and during my term of office, Jaak Aab, I will look at you at 70 more teachers. Yeah, 70 teachers! You are saying in black and white that during my term of office, the teachers have not come. We have 190 teachers at work today, 70 of which have been summarised during my term of office. All in all, the Ministry of Education and Research has never had as much budget as I have managed this budget this year in the field of language policy in general and vocational education. Today, the budget in this area is over EUR 9 million. And thirdly, from the funding of higher education. Higher education has been consistently underfunded following the decision to move to free higher education. At the moment of the transition, 10 million euros were devoted to the sector, but beyond that, higher education has been permanently underfunded. I have met with the Council of Rectors nine times in 16 months, and we have always discussed how to find a solution to the long-term underfunding problem, because everyone has confirmed that it is not possible to move forward in the same way. We have prepared an analysis of the various financing models in the Ministry. I have introduced it to the R &amp; D council led by the Prime Minister, which has also taken the subject into focus, I have introduced them in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I have also introduced them, good former coalition partners, also in the government. And in the government's dissecting the problem of funding higher education, I realized that everyone understands the seriousness of the problem and the long-term impact that we have to address during the discussions on the country's budget strategy. I still believe that higher education will receive the necessary additional money, which is a condition for signing administrative contracts. The request for additional money has also been submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research, and I believe we can get it done. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I assure you that I have done my job with commitment and solely and solely on the basis of the best interests of education. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U34	And there are questions. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U35	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for your hard-hearted work in the field of education, which is very, very important. I am very sorry to see that probably why you are in front of us today is precisely because these two parties, the Centre Party and the EKRE, are distrustful because you have done a systematic and good job of transitioning to education in Estonian. As we have seen, these two parties voted against the agenda for the transition to education in Estonian. But they will try to blame you for not standing up for teachers in the field, for example. My question: do I remember correctly that the previous government, led by the Centre Party, had allocated exactly zero euros to the country's budget strategy for four years, but in your first year, the government came along, plus you actually found the money within the field in such a way that over 7% actually could raise teachers' salaries in the first year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U36	Thank you. I hope that the behaviour of the EKREIK government and the pay of teachers will set an example for all of us, future governments, how we must not behave. Because if one year doesn't raise teachers' wages, teachers' pay in comparison to the national average will fall drastically, and we can still climb out of that hole. Yes, indeed, the EKREIK government in its strategy had set the teachers' salary increase at zero after four years, and 2021 the teacher's salary was not really raised, and together with the Centre Party, we raised teachers' salaries by 7.3%. 5% of the teachers' salary was increased by extra money from the government, additional money, and more than EUR 9 million were paid by the teachers in the field, because I thought it was absolutely impossible for us to go out of the government with the recognition that the teacher's salary would fall below the national average. I made an effort to ensure that teachers' pay does not at least fall below the national average, because it would have been extremely embarrassing for any person who cares about education to look teachers in the eye when teachers' pay is below the national average. So yes, 7.3% of this year's teachers' salary rose. And I very much hope that we can get teachers' salaries agreed in the country's budget strategy so that we can reach at least 2025120% of the country's average in the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U37	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Lina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science! You have done the work of several ministers in a short time. The important keywords are, in my opinion, changes, also changes in attitudes, a new working culture, dignity, openness, yes, also the openness of schools here. But I would like to ask you about the transition to education in Estonian. Have you understood whose interests the Central and the EKRE have still served when they voted down the draft of the transition to education in Estonian, such a very flagrant draft for our society, a very important step to unite society? Why are students in other languages still being restricted and isolated?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U39	Thank you. I myself have realized that the wish of the Centre Party is to teach Estonian more. We say, and the experts are also on our side, that teaching the language is not enough, but it is also necessary to teach the Estonian language in order to learn the language well. This is quite clearly a world-view difference. We are based on experts in the field who say that we can teach Estonian to children with other mother tongues even seven hours a week, but that does not mean that they will speak Estonian. There is a need to teach in Estonian, and the question is, in what extent are we going to do this teaching in Estonian with what kind of transition? Experts have also made their recommendations. We know from research that 76% of the population think that education in Estonian should start in early childhood education. 66% of people in another mother tongue also think they should start early childhood education. Having been to a Russian-language kindergarten, where more than 50% of the studies are in Estonian, there are Estonian-language teachers at work, just when they say that parents are waiting and wanting it in kindergartens, I really don't understand why it hurts so much that our little children, who play to learn the language, can learn comfortably in Estonian. Instead, we are bullying young people who, for example, after primary school or upper secondary school, reach vocational schools or even universities and find it extremely difficult to cope there. Why are we doing this to our people, why? I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U40	Marko Storm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U41	Good President! Very honorable Minister, good Liina! You can look straight back and bravely at this hall and be proud of what you've done. And by the way, if you look at the hall, more than half of those mistrusters are missing from this room right now. I am sorry, in fact, about a good, sympathetic colleague, Marko Šorin, who was put in a very awkward position and out of the mouth of the sauce, but what to do. You have kept schools open, health risks down, thereby supporting children's mental health, and helping to avoid major learning gaps. Thank you for that! And finally. Responsibility and decision-makers are usually the quickest and the first to point the finger at those who take responsibility and dare to decide. Look in everyone's eyes, you're a good minister, just keep it the same, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U42	Thank you. However, I admit, of course, that these rapid tests should have been available in the health sector in order to use them if necessary, they should not have been ordered by the Ministry of Education and Research, who did not have the competence to order medical supplies, especially at such a time pressure. Today, I think we are already quite competent in this area, we can also agree with others. But at first it really wasn't that competent. In the area of health care, these tests should have been backed up. But I also understand that, if my clear objective as Minister for Education and Science was to stand up for the education sector, then at that point the health sector was to stand up for our hospitals not to break down. They saw that we were moving at a huge pace, to 600 plus a corona patient in hospitals. And then our hospital system would have broken down, and the health sector stood above all for it, and their focus was, above all, that really, since I am responsible for the education sector, it was exceptional and I took responsibility for the omissions in the second area and took action to save my area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U43	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is where your combat partner and partymate Heidy Purga noted that you have done the work of several ministers. Now, if that was a reference to a breach of law, then it's a little scary. I actually agree, I agree with your own statement that your decisions and actions have a major impact, you are a minister, and I also agree with your self-criticism, where you yourself have admitted that yes, that there have been violations, but I would now ask you whether you consider it fair and correct in a situation where your decisions have a major impact and you are a minister that you continue to do the Minister's work, despite the fact that you have taken various steps and decisions that have clearly run counter to the rules and law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U45	Thank you for your question. First of all, I didn't say I didn't break anything. Today it is being investigated whether there have been or have not been any violations. The Ministry of Finance's audit report says that the first tender was also made according to their assessment, according to this control report correctly. There was an exceptional situation, there was an urgent situation and the law, and the Public Procurement Act provides an opportunity to negotiate with a single economic operator without prior publication of a contract notice. It was not our creation, but the law has provided that if there is an emergency situation and an emergency situation, this provision of the law can be used. It must indeed be admitted that it has not been used before in Estonia. We did it, and today it is appreciated that it was the right thing to do. The part where misdemeanor proceedings have been initiated and I have been repeatedly told that I have not been convicted in any way in connection with this misdemeanor procedure, is being investigated, dealt with. I would point out, however, that 17 companies received the offer. These were all those entrepreneurs who were known by the Health Board at the time, who were involved in the sale of rapid tests and added to them those who had contacted us at the time of the first tender and indicated that they too were willing to offer rapid tests to the State and that there were 17 of them at the time. In the Corona years, there have been negotiated contracts without prior publication of a contract notice, how much do you think a year? Over 600! Over three years, more than 600 contracts have been awarded without publication of a contract notice each year. It was nothing special. And as I said, already on 8 November we announced this negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice and sent out these tenders and by the end of November, by 23rd we had already signed a contract. We had to do this very quickly, because the government gave a clear guideline that, in the case of negotiated procurement with one operator, we had to make the shortest possible contract, and that is what we did, but that, on the other hand, forced us to carry out the other contract very quickly, too, but we opened up the market and very many operators were able to participate in this offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U46	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U47	Thank you. Madam Secretary! You've said you acted honestly. But in fact, you still caused the country five or six million losses. I ask again and again why you ignored public procurement requirements and chose a more expensive offer than there were cheaper ones. Obviously, you may have thought best, but I doubt your skill in this case. And the key question is, why did you make an advance payment to this company? It's a precedent. Something like take the money and do something about it. It's outrageous, as the entrepreneurs all say here. So I think you hurt the sense of justice in the whole community. Would you explain why you acted in such a way that the Estonian state suffered financial losses and made an advance payment to this extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U48	Thank you. Firstly, if the government's first plan, or tests in schools, had been carried out by Synlab, it would have been very, very much more expensive than the first procurement of rapid testing, much more expensive. Because one price for this lollipop test was less than EUR 5 and if this class kit detected a lollipop virus, all children in the class should have gone to a PCR test, which is much more expensive. This EUR 3 and a little after one quick test and procurement, which was the first part of the 400000 test, was still significantly cheaper at the time than the State had planned. We knew, the Health Department said what the prices were for the rapid tests. Well, at that point, there were significantly higher prices in the pharmacy, and we got a pretty good offer from the market price in such a quick or short notice. Today, rapid tests are at a very different price. Of course. But this was the moment when rapid testing was not widespread in society. We were the first to bring in a wide-ranging rapid test. And as far as the advance is concerned, I'm sorry, the advance is not illegal. Enn Veskimägi called me specifically and said that having made a prepayment was a completely inadequate accusation. Of course, there may be different assessments, but it can also be assessed in this way. Our goal was for the company to be able to deliver fast tests to schools very quickly, and they were able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U49	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U50	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You have been Minister of Education and Science for a year and a half and during this time you have initiated important changes to the transition to education in Estonian. However, there have also been changes in the structure of the Ministry and in staff policy. Please describe these decisions and your objectives when you started working as a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U51	Thank you. Very quickly it became clear to me in the first order of magnitude of the half-year that knowing the times ahead, at that point it was clear that with this team we would not achieve the results that I had wanted to achieve. Not to mention all the things that have come up behind us, which had been done in that ministry, and which really did not comply with the law in any way. And today I'm extremely proud of my team, the Ministry of Education and Research has for the first time the Doctor of Educational Sciences in the office of Chancellor, and we have a very professional leadership, I've reduced management, we have one less deputy chancellor than we had in the past. I think that this leadership has now done an excellent job of integrating both the corona crisis and the Ukrainian refugee war into the education of children. I thank them very much that they have worked so committedly and selflessly to ensure that learners of all ages receive the best education in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U52	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U53	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Science and Education! To begin with, I would like to join my colleague Marko Storm in his thanks. Thank you. But in this whole story, this aziotage has been around the procurement of tests, and it's like you've been thrown into the wrong business. Other points have been added as a surprise to me on the basis of mistrust. But for all the activities you have carried out with your ministers, for all these activities on these same topics, you have been guided by government guidelines. You've said it yourself, and it's been that way. The government, as we know, makes its decisions in a collegial way, and here's the question. If you feel that right now... Do you now feel that in these quick moments something could have been done differently afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U54	Thank you. I have asked a lot of experts on this issue, including the Audit Officer of the Ministry of Finance: tell me how we would have achieved the same result by acting differently. And I have not received an answer that we should have done differently at the time, myself personally, but also my team. For once again I assure you that I have not acted in any way alone, in my own wisdom. All these decisions, all contracts have been subject to an official round of coordination, drawn up by procurement specialists. The negotiations were conducted not by the Minister of Economics, but by procurement specialists and the Legal Department. All these agreements have passed the formal round of coordination, the end of which is the Minister. So if anyone can tell me today what we should have done differently in order to achieve the same result, I look forward to this recommendation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U55	Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! About the same time you did the rapid tests, the Police and Border Guard Board did the mask procurement. The police really needed masks. The payment deadline was 60 days, many entrepreneurs gave up because the price of the money was too expensive to close for such a long time, but you made an advance payment. I don't know for what reason, but it seems to me that the prepayment was made because the shelf company you bought the fast tests from was unreliable for the external supplier, and that's why the money was asked in advance. But my question is this: for what reasons and where did this decision come from in the office to make an advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U57	Thank you. As I said earlier, the Minister of Education did not negotiate with entrepreneurs. The negotiations were conducted by a specialist in the field of procurement and by the Legal Department. The minister didn't do it personally. During the negotiations it was decided that an advance payment would be made and that there would be no conflict with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U58	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You worked at the Ministry of Agriculture in 2005-2007. Some time ago, I was in contact with an official who actually trained you at that time to conduct procurements. And for him, it was still very strange how you did all of this and were very seriously wrong. You certainly knew about the things you were wrong about doing the procurement. Here's a question for you. Do you not feel that you have been seriously wrong and actually presented a very bad practice of Estonian political culture? I understand that you are trying to show others here, you can also say and lie here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu right now and say that you have not been in contact with company leaders, but you actually made a call to this company on Sunday night.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U60	Yeah. I was talking about it, first of all, that I didn't negotiate. Yeah, I've said in my article that the night before the government meeting, when it turned out that the Ministry of Social Affairs couldn't handle the tasks that the government had given them, then since we had one company to know who had been piloting fast-tests in schools, I really did make that first call. But I didn't negotiate with the company. I don't know who you're talking to at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but in the Ministry of Rural Affairs, I was a spokesperson and for a short time in the office of head of the Public Relations Department. And the head of the Public Relations Department doesn't do procurement. So I can't say I'm a procurement specialist, though. I don't have to be a procurement specialist. The Ministry has separate people at work, full-time work, who carry out procurements. Probably at that time, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture also received procurements, but I did not do it personally, but it was the specialists who did it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U61	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I know, at least from your mouth, I thought I heard there was a legal dispute going on. I will touch on one of your issues, and this is to keep schools open in this pandemic situation. And here's an interesting fact that the final exam results for mathematics comprehensive school were 17 percentage points below the average in recent years. And the question may sound very speculative, but what is the probability that keeping schools in contact training would have brought this percentage point down even further in important subjects such as mathematics and other subjects?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U63	Thank you. It would certainly not have been a contact course... well, if there had been contact training, the average results would certainly have been better in real subjects, because according to various studies, children and young people were most in trouble during distance learning. There were subjects that could be handled nicely, but in mathematics, physics, chemistry, it was in these subjects that the understanding of distance learning was much more complicated. So, if we had kept it in 2021, when we were appointed, this winter and spring period for children in contact education, these results would have been very likely to be significantly better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U64	Urve Tiidus, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U65	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, I had a childish linguae. The minister understood my question because I meant distance training and confused me with contact training.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U66	We got an explanation. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Liina Kersna! I'm listening to you and your excuses for violating myself, and I'm reminding you how, when you were working with the criminal police, how a person got caught in the theft, he didn't steal, he borrowed. And the person who stabbed the man said he didn't stab him, but he fell on the knife himself several times in a row. You only justify it, but I remind you that the laws apply to everyone, including the members of the government. Even the argument that the situation is exceptional or urgent does not justify a breach of the law. The members of the government must be law-abiding and set an example for the people. What kind of example do you set for people living in our society by such twilighting, spinning? And when it's done, you have to be held responsible. I'm asking you, because you behave with so much dignity and ethics as a member of the government, and you step back on your own, so you don't go through any more to yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U68	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Kert Kingo. A member of the Riigikogu must also act with great dignity and be an example to society and act in accordance with the law, and I assure you once again that the Public Procurement Act, perhaps you have read it, says that the procurement of negotiations with one economic operator without prior publication is allowed. The legislator has foreseen such an opportunity in the law. Yes, this law has not been used in the past, and now we have used it and the Ministry of Finance has assessed that at that point all the criteria were met in order to use this law. Negotiated procurement without prior publication, as I said, has been used 600+ times in Estonia for the last three years. It was no longer extraordinary what we did in the second procurement. Negotiated procurement without prior publication, with seventeen companies involved. Yes, of course, I have been thinking about resigning and, of course, if the prosecutor's office decides that they will start an investigation, then, of course, at the same moment, I will resign as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U69	It's a procedure, Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U70	Thank you! I would like to clarify whether the procedure for expressing mistrust is the same or whether it is now a new format in which a distrustful debate will begin with the Riigikogu Ambassador. Is it a new form now, or is it in the old form that we can ask questions from a distrustful person and he should answer? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U71	Still, as far as I know, we have the same rules of procedure as all the time that our Riigikogu ambassador asks and the minister answers. Jürgen Ligi, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U72	Thank you. I've also developed a procedure. Tell me whether a mistrust procedure or even a debate in the hall is not one of those things where you listen to statements that you have heard before and do not just put a dull written text. Here are a number of such remarks, where the distrustful has nicely tried to explain and then comes well with personal taunts. For a hint, it was as if the two previous female colleagues had just fallen into the hall. Is that how this procedure works?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U73	Yeah, Jürgen, I remembered a few times when I was mistrusted. Personal attacks aren't nice in this hall. Yeah. And that depends on the agility of each ambassador how much he responds to the talk he has been told or continues with his prepared question. Let's try and get the procedure over with. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U74	Thank you! I also have another question as to whether the rules of mistrust have changed since two years ago, when the members of the Reform Party here were extremely rude, extremely petty and taunting. Has there been any change since then? Jürgen Ligi may be more informed that there are very new rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U75	The rules are still the same, the standard is different. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U76	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I don't want to enter the legal system because I don't understand it very much, but there are institutions in the country that deal with it. But what bothers me most about this story is that every day you talk and we all talk about the lack of money in education. And now that it was possible to save money by taking a bid from several suppliers, that's the fact that we could have gotten this procurement at millions cheaper. How do you go to the people of educational institutions now and say that the country is short of money? In fact, this procurement would have made it possible to win millions. And those reasons that had the Prime Minister's consent, the infection rate was high and schools would have been disarmed ♪ it is not the basis for misusing public money. My question is this: why did you sign this contract yourself? The contract is usually signed by the chancellor.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U77	Thank you. I am pleased to tell you that if I go to schools as Minister for Education and Research, I am very grateful that the rapid tests reached schools very quickly. School families quickly accepted the rapid testing procedure. Everyone saw that this was working very well, and even at the peaks of the Omicron strain, we had open schools because the rapid testing worked very well. We quickly identified the carriers of the virus in the school collections, and this allowed a large number of schools to complete the entire academic year of contact training. For example, I recently attended Põlva Gymnasium, and it was also said that for a whole year they were in contact education, thanks to rapid testing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U78	Anti-Semiamets, I'm sorry, it's procedural first. Tarmo Tamm, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U79	Thank you. You didn't really answer either of my questions. What was the justification for the award of a single tender and why the Chancellor did not sign it? I didn't get an answer to either of the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U80	Yes, Tarmo, all ambassadors have two questions. You didn't get an answer, put the question back in. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U81	Minister, thank you very much. Please tell me, do you know in the board of the company that won this procurement, in the circle of owners, in the board of directors, is there a member of the Reform Party? And do you know them personally?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U82	I don't know any Selfdiagnostic people personally. The observant eye of the media found that many years ago, when Taavi Rõivas was the Prime Minister and I was the head of the Prime Minister's office, and Taavi Rõivas visited the United States and had a large-member business delegation with him, it was true that Marko Lehes was one of the members of this business delegation, but I did not know him by his face or by his name. I don't know that there are any political party associates among the leaders of this company. I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U83	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U84	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Did the study session on 26 October tell you to take three offers? Yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U85	They said it would be good if I could do it. I said I wouldn't make it to Jaak Aab, and the government therefore gave a guideline that if there is a single tender or a single business, this must be done as short-term as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U86	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U87	Thank you. That was a pretty interesting answer right now. You also said earlier, Minister, that you are still in the middle of legal disputes. Well, in any reasonable society, a minister would actually withdraw, resign, so that there would be no shadow at all, so that there could be no blame for any conflict of interest or direction at the same time as the investigations are still ongoing. Why have you still not made this decision and resigned so that there is no way to blame here for any possible direction? I think that would be a perfectly reasonable and elementary step.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U88	Thank you. Firstly, as Minister for Education and Science, I have no way of directing this procedure. I understand that there was no way to direct this procedure to Aabil, Jaak Aabil, who kept repeating it to me with sad eyes, not that I asked him for it or that I asked him for it. So the Minister for Education and Science really does not have any way of directing this procedure. I've been very open, but we've sent all the necessary documents to the Ministry of Finance. I went to give a statement. There I also explained very thoroughly and also sent more documents that were asked for. So I hope that this procedure will come to an immediate end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U89	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Everything you are trying to justify here in a selfless and epic way is, however, let us be honest, chemically pure corruption, but it is perfectly suited to the general behaviour of the government led by the Kremlin money laundering mafia, which, as we well know, has already been judged by the Court. But about education. The early childhood education curriculum still does not exist. Why? The method of teaching the Estonian language as a foreign language does not exist in the same way. How does your padupopulist party try to teach Estonian to people who speak Russian as their native language if there is no methodology? On what grounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U91	Thank you. Firstly, the pre-school curriculum exists, it is very broad-based with experts in the field, both practitioners and researchers, and it exists. If the Riigikogu had passed the law, it would have been implemented immediately, with a transitional period, as well as this curriculum. Secondly, Estonian as a second language is absolutely available, for many years now, and on the basis of this curriculum we also measure children's learning outcomes, and we see that these learning outcomes in Russian-speaking schools are extremely low. Fourth grade A1 levels were only 40%, seventh grade A2 levels were also slightly above 40%. The methodologies do exist, and with this national supervision, we really want to find out what these concerns are, why these results are so low.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U92	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U93	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Language Study and Development Problem Committee addressed you with a letter pointing out the urgent need to protect the use of the Estonian language in higher education. And we raised a series of questions and made suggestions. However, in your reply letter, you did not answer most of these questions and answered others inadequately. You argued, among other things, that the issue of the language of higher education has been a subject of great concern since 2018. In fact, however, the share of Estonian in higher education has also decreased in the years following 2018. Do you agree that the ever-growing English language of Estonian higher education institutions poses a threat to the vitality of our mother tongue? Secondly, what's the impression from your letter that you have no intention of doing anything to protect our native language in universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U94	Thank you. On the contrary, in the administrative agreements that we are currently preparing with the higher education institutions and which I hope we will also get signed in the autumn, there is a very clearly stated objective that higher education in Estonian must be maintained and guaranteed in Estonian. In addition, in these administrative agreements, we aim to ensure that foreign students receive the education of Estonian language and culture. So, yes, higher education in Estonian is important, and in administrative contracts we also set these goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U95	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U96	Thank you. Dear Minister, You've been accused here, I don't know, the seventh mortal sin, but my question is a little of the past. Premiere Mailis Reps signed an agreement with Tallinn for 3.5 million euros to support Estonian-language education in Russian-speaking schools. I was a council member at the time, we started researching, the money didn't get to the schools, he was just scattered between the NGOs. Have you studied it, and if you have studied it, what result did you get and where did the money go? Jaak Aab is constantly saying that this is why the Estonian-language education bill was taken down, that there was no money, but they are always offering them from below.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U97	Thank you. I have really been working on this subject, and I think that is also one reason why the Centre Party, as one man, mistrusts me today. We have looked into these agreements and we have also looked very closely at how these agreements have been implemented, because there are very serious problems with the implementation of these agreements. The money received has bought things that were not related to the learning of Estonian language, the money received has hired people who are extremely difficult to relate to the subject of Estonian language learning. I have met Mayor Mikhail Kõlvart twice on this subject. And we're gonna end this deal. This year, these schools have not received any money and will not continue to receive three schools in this way. Our goal is, however, that all schools can have the means to teach Estonian and Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U98	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U99	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The irrational praise of reform parties to the Minister is understandable, but unfortunately for the sake of fact-control: the EKRE has never voted against the draft changeover to education in Estonian, because such a draft does not exist, it never existed. That's a lie. There is an action plan for education in Estonian, but it has never been voted again, because the procedure does not foresee such a thing. So the Reform Party and you are back in this hall, defaming, lying and dimming. But as far as the Early Childhood Education Act is concerned, we will work it out here. Unfortunately, the Early Childhood Education Act was formulated by your Ministry and you yourself admitted that it would have provided a legal opportunity for Russification of Estonian kindergartens, which is why it was perfectly understandable that we sent it back to your Ministry for re-working. So don't keep lying. In addition, you have dimly shared and distributed state money in violation of the law. Why do you still not want to take political responsibility, try to put the blame on the officials, and interpret the laws in your favour with your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U100	Thank you. When dealing with the draft law on early childhood education and care in the Riigikogu at first reading, and also in the Committee on Culture, I made it clear that if you get the impression from the wording of this bill that the Estonian-language kindergarten will somehow be Russianised, we will change this wording in such a way that there is no such impression. If the draft is in Riigikogu proceedings, the Riigikogu could work on the drafts and propose amendments and then the majority of the Riigikogu will vote on them. The Riigikogu had this opportunity. It was a first reading, it is possible to change the drafts at first reading for all of you; all members of the Riigikogu had the opportunity to table amendments. The Ministry of Education and Research said that we are ready to think along with the Riigikogu about how to make this amendment so that it is clearer. Therefore, the drafts were not to be voted out of the procedure. Instead, the Riigikogu could have proposed amendments that the hall could have voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U101	The procedure, Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U102	Thank you. I would say, or the procedural question, whether the minister really thinks that we do not know here in the Riigikogu how the procedure goes between the first reading and the second reading and these amendments. But the reason why we rejected it was because we did not risk the Ministry of Education rejecting us with exactly the same thing and rejecting all the amendments: the Ministry of Education does not support it. We couldn't risk it, we've seen it here so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U103	Yeah, it wasn't really a procedure. Jürgen Ligi, procedural, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U104	Thank you. You've come to say the last sentence, but it really wasn't a procedural question. It's pretty ugly to listen to questions being just lied to. But we don't have that format. But I also had to ask, wasn't it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U105	It wasn't procedural either. Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U106	Good Liina! There have been all sorts of claims, some misleading claims, certainly. With regard to pay, I would like to remind you: in the government of Jüri Ratas, we raised the teachers' minimum wage of 365 euros. It's 40%, it's gotten from 950 to 1315. In 2021, the government decided not to raise public sector salaries, which is why it was zero. But already in 2022, despite the wishes of the Reform Party, we asked for very much savings, however, that this issue of pay be taken to the table, and that is why the additional resources came. Well done, the HTM supplemented them so that the teachers' salary increase continued. And that was the plan anyway. But now a little bit about this procurement. It's also sounded... I don't know, we remember these things differently. Both I and Janar Holm, on 26 October and 28 October, asked for at least three offers. Nobody said take an offer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U107	I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U108	The question was that it was said at the government meeting that three bids had to be taken. That was a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U109	Yeah, as I said earlier, that was the subject, but if we started reading the days that what it means, and our one very clear criterion was that the tests we're getting were tested at school. We knew that most of the rapid tests were nasal larynx tests, and those tests that the government, with the additional budget that we allocated to local authorities, were of very different quality and not at all child-friendly. Our clear objective was very quickly to obtain tests for which we can be sure that these tests are also suitable for independent use by a seven-year-old child. At the time, it gave us the assurance that this company had been piloting these rapid tests at the English College. Yes, in the future we have already been able to expand this amporate, because we also had significantly more time to check the quality of this rapid test. It was very clearly spoken in the government and it was said that we are currently entering into a contract with a single entrepreneur. Otherwise, you, Mr Aab, would not have insisted very strongly that this contract should be as short-term as possible when you go into a procurement with one economic operator. It's as short-lived as possible! And that's what we did, he was as short-lived as possible. But that is why we were under extreme pressure to carry out the next procurement. Of course, I would also have expected a much more active cooperation from the State Support Services Centre in your area of administration. We asked for their help on November 4. They said no, they are unable to carry out this procurement, not to mention that I am personally accused today of the way the RTK gave us written advice. And we in the government too, you know, Jaak, that's very well, we talked about it, it went through the government too. And today I am personally accused of following the assessments and recommendations of our state procurement competence centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U110	Mart Helme, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U111	Thank you. I have a procedural question in this sense that we have the questioners and the respondent in a disproportionate state. Jaak Aab explicitly, but also Taavi Aas and some others have refuted these arguments and views and, in my opinion, the lies that the Minister has made from the Riigikogu's speaking board, but since they can formulate their question only within two minutes, the answer can be much more verbally and demagogically, there is an unequal situation here. And should we not think about the fact that the Board of the Riigikogu requires the government's records and records at the time to determine the truth, so that it is possible for the assembly committee to assess how true the statements the Minister makes to us are?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U112	Thank you. The answer is this: technically, it really is that a member of the Riigikogu can ask for one minute, the answer is not limited, we all know that. Of course we assume we're telling the truth in this hall. Is it possible for the board to ask for these protocols and things? Theoretically, it is, but I don't think it gives much in this context, because then we should take them out on the question, then take a long break, I don't know how long this issue will last, then who will appreciate them... But yes, in that sense, the appeal that you are making, I think you are also doing in both directions that speaking the truth here is very important both on the Riigikogu side and on the government side. Jaak Aab, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U113	I need to take care of this for a second. The Ministry of Education and Research did not have a contract with RTK and they carried out the procurement themselves. Yeah, eventually the public procurement came when the request came, the RTK took over. But you used to think you could handle it. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U114	Okay, thank you for that clarification. Mart Helme, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U115	Yeah. I am pleased that you were in touch with my previous speech. We have a special anti-corruption committee in the Riigikogu; its task should be to review and evaluate these materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U116	Thank you. It includes, as far as I know, representatives of all our political groups, so I believe that this member of the Riigikogu who is part of it can always raise this issue in this committee. Yes, there is a committee, you're right. Let's get on with the questions. Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned in your speech that during your term of office there were some 70 new teachers in Estonian. But in reality, they came by order of Jaak Aab, which he did last year, and he also found the funding. And his signature's right there. Why haven't you done this? Why haven't you continued and expanded it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U118	Thank you. To continue with the previous procedural questions, I have read all the summaries of the government office at the time and no recordings of the meetings of the Cabinet, which I asked the Secretary of State, but the summaries are there. These have all been taken out in writing, and that is what I follow. And now, Mrs Kõlvart, however, these decisions to expand may have been made earlier, but, you know, there was no money to expand them. The base was just over EUR 1 million, and I received EUR 5 million in extra money in this area, precisely in order to carry out this expansion. There was no money to recruit or recruit these 70 teachers. It really wasn't. We received EUR 5 million, I asked for extra money in the field, and two thirds of this extra money went to finance the '+1 teacher' programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U119	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Regardless of how today's vote ends, it is quite clear that your actions in ordering and acquiring rapid tests have caused serious financial damage to the Estonian state, but it has been severely damaged both by the Reform Party and by your personal reputation. The position of minister should be based on the interests of society, not on creating unequal conditions for different companies. And it is no wonder that in society there is really growing distrust of the state's institutions. And I ask: how do you see the opportunity to continue in your position and how do you intend to improve your image in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U121	Thank you. It's so kind of you to worry about my personal reputation. I am very pleased that in the context of my standing here today, I have received public support from the School Leaders' Association, the School Psychologists' Association, interest education associations, creative therapists. They all understand that I acted in the interests of education, in the interests of children's learning outcomes and mental health, and it would be very nice if you also looked at the other side of this decision. I would like to remind you that in order to level out the educational gaps resulting from distance learning, the state has allocated EUR 18 million, EUR 6 million without any additional money, and in the first half of the year we have allocated schools to level out the educational gaps, and from the next state budget I also applied for additional money, and that is what we received. If we hadn't gotten these rapid tests into schools, then and now as wise as ever, knowing how this virus spread and knowing that at the beginning of the year an omicron wave came in, which numbers we hadn't seen in our lives, I would say that schools would have been stuck between 1 November and at least March, and how much money we should have paid as a society so that our children and young people could go on fully with their lives. And I don't want to think about how many suicides a young person would have committed during this time and what the price would have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U122	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U123	Good minister! I must admit that your answers are a major failure, because you speak like those who ask for the walls are still continuing with the written texts that accuse you of doing what they themselves do. But I have a complaint to the questioners only about long-term decisions to block education in Russian or Estonian for Russian-speaking and distrustful believers and, on the other hand, about looting public finances and underfunding higher education. But what I am not accusing the Centre Party of is, in fact, this test deal, where it is done collectively, and the circumstances are quite understandable to me. But tell me if it is true that the competence centre in the administration of Jaak Aabi, the State Support Services Centre, has also informally apologized for giving the wrong advice or I misread it somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U124	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, the Head of the State Support Services Centre sent a very warm letter to the Chancellor of our Ministry, where he expressed his heartfelt sadness because we have been involved in misdemeanour proceedings because they gave us advice and that they interpret the specific provision of the law differently with the Ministry of Finance and that the head of the Support Services Centre was so sympathetic that he said that if the fine was imposed, he would be willing to participate proportionally in the payment of the fine. It was just such a declaration of goodwill, but I do not want any criticism to be held by the State Support Services Centre. The State Support Services Centre tried to think along, tried to help in any way, and I am very grateful to them for that, because if we had, or if we had not found a flexible solution at the time of the procurement by the State Support Services Centre itself, there was a risk that it would fail and that it would be delayed by a technical error, and this was a situation where we really had 5,000 and even more than 5,000 days of infection a day. And if there were no tests in the schools, it would have been impossible to keep the schools open safely. The State Support Services Centre understood that this was a decision with a very high impact and they tried to find a solution and proposed a solution. I also proposed this solution in the government, and the government agreed, and we were able to expand this existing framework agreement and very quickly the schools, especially those that were out of tests, could buy with others. So I am very grateful to the State Support Services Centre for their thought-up contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U125	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Please explain what happened to the state reform under the HTM. It was supposed to combine the activities of public authorities and foundations. And now, at the expense of the savings that should have come, the availability of Estonian-language teachers in Russian kindergartens could have been financed very well. Why, then, did this reform of the state not actually come to an end?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U127	Thank you for your question. You mean the creation of Harno? Harno was created. And thank you very much to Mailis Reps for having this great reform. This was a very important step, and it will certainly remain a favor to Mailis Reps that Harno was created for us. Since organisations with very different forms of organizational culture were created in Harno, it is likely that it would become a single strong organisation that a lot of work has been done, but this work must be continued. Certainly no one had the assumption, I believe Mailis Reps himself, that there would be huge savings. And in order to direct these 70 new kindergarten and school teachers, teachers in Estonian to Russian kindergartens and schools, we received additional money from the government, as I said, in the area of EUR 5 million, of which 2/3 went to hire +1 teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U128	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You've arranged for a public procurement. You are currently the subject of proceedings for misdemeanour. Today you are on the issue of mistrust regarding public procurement right here in the Chamber of Riigikogu, which I believe would require you to be so familiar with this law that you know everything in your sleep. Paragraph 48, first paragraph, of the Public Procurement Act states: "Hankija is required to organise public procurement in the form of an open or restricted procurement procedure, subject to the provisions of this Act. " Listening to your excuses, please tell me which section of the Public Procurement Act you acted on. Or if you don't know the number, please refer to the content of this rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U130	Thank you very much. We followed the Public Procurement Act, which says that in urgent and exceptional cases it is possible to use negotiated procurement without prior publication of a contract notice with one or more economic operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U131	Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U132	Thank you, Mr President. This, I'm so sorry, lollipop story I've heard here for a long time, with which the waitress has furnished. I asked for a specific reference to the norm so we could see if the waitress knew what she was doing or if she didn't know what she was doing. Would it be possible to get that question again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U133	Thank you. No, there's no way. We have two questions, so if one question has been asked, you can ask another question, but in the meantime, this [option] does not give you a home and operating procedure. Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When I listen to these questions and answers, it becomes increasingly clear that the core of today's mistrust is that the Reform Party has wanted to move to Estonian-language education as soon as possible. Because if the problem had been to keep schools wide open during the Coronary period and to tender for rapid tests, then the coalition partner at that time could have referred to it in the government office. But it wasn't done. And the same draft of early childhood education was one of the most concrete, one of the most important steps [five] closer to the transition to education in Estonian. Unfortunately, the Centre Party and the EKRE pulled a brake on it. Would you like to tell us what these objectives were and what we would have achieved today with Estonian-language education if these objectives had not been slowed down?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U135	Thank you. First of all, I must say, in recognition of Mr Aab, that I am not saying at all that this was not a topic for us to be more confident about taking three offers. Yeah, that's what Jaak said in the government hearing. But in the course of the debate, we reached a decision, and Jaak Aab did not disagree, did not record his disagreement that, in this case, we can do one with an entrepreneur, given that we know that these specific tests have been used in the school environment. This issue was certainly being discussed in the government, and we took the risk that we would go into procurement with a single entrepreneur. This has actually been a great surprise to me for a year and a half how little has been dealt with the transition to education in Estonian in the Ministry. After all, we did not even have a national plan to switch to education in Estonian. In Estonia, for the first time in its independence, we have a plan that has been put together by experts. During this year and a half, I have pursued this plan and implemented these proposals in a row so that we can reach the goal that no young person living in Estonia would have glass ceilings in front of them because of the lack of knowledge of the national language. These are heartbreaking stories that I hear in universities or even in vocational schools. For example, I recently went to Räpina Gardening School, where a person who has received basic education in Estonia comes to study in a vocational school and has to work for six months or a year to get an A1 level in the state language. A1 level! They said it took 400 hours. Why do we do this to our young ones? Let's not do this again! We will allow them to participate in Estonia's very good education system. So in answer to your question, we have a plan now, and we're going to do this plan and we're going to do it. This is not just a slogan plan, but this plan also speaks about the topic of teachers' secondary growth, which is entirely justified by the Centre Party's concern that we have problems with teachers' secondary growth. We do not have enough teachers who can also teach in Estonian to children with another mother tongue. Why, then, have you not raised the order of training in these disciplines in previous years? Why haven't you? The EUR 450000 now went on for the first time to raise these training orders in universities, namely that teachers have the ability to teach in multilingual classrooms and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U136	Mart Helme, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U137	Yes, I would like to remind the honourable speaker that the Reform Party has been in government for 17 years. Why haven't you done anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U138	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U139	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, As a lion, you have stood up for your field and I just remember, leaving aside the roles as a parent, it was really important that children got to school and parents, I think, all over Estonia were grateful to you. Estonian-language education, of course, with today's process, is also trying to prevent this. But unfortunately, there are some kind of personal vendettas in here. Do you feel that you regret being a minister or that what you have been able to do is more important?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U140	Thank you. I tell Mart Helme that while the Reform Party was leading the government, the first very fundamental step was taken in the transition to education in Estonian. The upper secondary school level was set at 60:40 language studies; in the past, upper secondary schools were fully Russian-speaking. At that point, yes, it can be said that, of course, little, could have been even more, but at least this step was done and, in fact, after this step, no steps have been taken correctly. But I do, and I know that in this year and a half, I've given the maximum of myself, I'm not being squeezed out any more. If the Riigikogu mistrusts me today, I will put the pen with a calm heart on the table and wish the next minister the strength to work and hope that he will do even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U141	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Secretary! I'm very sorry that you've lied here many times today. Therefore, I ask: can you put your hand on your heart and swear on your husband's behalf that...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U143	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U144	... you have not benefited personally now or in the future from this corrupt public procurement, and the Reform Party has not received or will not receive corrupt money from this procurement in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U145	Thank you. Dear Siret Eagle! I put my hand to my heart, I can, on behalf of my husband, if it is so dear to you, fortunately I have a husband, to say that, of course, neither I nor the Reform Party have benefited from this procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U146	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U147	Dear Minister for Education and Science, The press notes the fact that the Selfdiagnostics GmbH, a provider selected by the Ministry, has sent tests to the school without manuals, as well as tests intended for professional use only, the use of which would require the supervision of a medical professional. The Health Board even initiated a procedure in this regard. However, according to the press, there was at least one more fast-track test offer on the Ministry's desk and I ask for a 30% prepayment offered to the Selfdiagnostics GmbH in the framework of the public procurement procedure. Can you name other public procurement procedures that used similar practices? Are you really going to continue to repeat in this Chamber that, in order to achieve a noble objective, an offence is permitted, and this is a new reality that the highest national legislative body must take into account in the future? And could local government leaders, for example, follow your example and, in the light of this precedent, if necessary, focus more on the content of the work rather than on the proper conduct of the procurement procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U148	Before we go to answer that, a procedural question. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. There's always this whole thing about how these personal attacks are. Maybe you're calling the Minister to order now. What he did to Siret Eagle was very, very, very unacceptable and personal. Drop "luckily I have a husband"! What did he mean by that? Here in the Chamber of Riigikogu raise this issue. It's not embarrassing, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U150	Thank you. I now ask the Minister to answer Dmitri Dmitriyev's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U151	Thank you. I said that fortunately I have a husband, because my husband has been suffering from a very serious illness for years and I am very grateful that he is alive and he is my husband. In answer to your question: yes, indeed, the Health Board has initiated a procedure to investigate the issue of labelling, and the Health Board has been in contact with the German Health Service to check the quality of these tests. And, as far as I know, the German Health Service examined this fact and confirmed that the tests that came to schools were all very well, they were quality and proper tests. And I am absolutely sure that, after what has taken place as an urgent and extraordinary procurement of these rapid tests, all the local authorities will certainly think very much before they use this law bar and must think. And they're supposed to think! And we also thought that this precedent was now created and a great deal has been said on this subject, so I think that all contracting authorities are certainly much more cautious than they were in the past. But I will say once again: the negotiated procedure without prior publication has been used more than 600 times a year in the last three years. That was no exception. The exception was that the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice was awarded to a single undertaking. This really was an exception and there has been no detection of a breach of the law in this. The Ministry of Finance has stated in its inspection report that in this situation the Ministry of Education had no other option and that this was justified. This is about the second procurement and the extension of the second procurement, where the Ministry of Finance will examine whether or not we were in conformity with the law during the misdemeanour procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U152	Dmitri Dmitriev, please, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U153	I simply state that the content of my question was or that it concerned the advance payment in the tender procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U154	Thank you. Thank you for that clarification. But as manager, I cannot intervene, if there is a question of how it is answered, that is, at the discretion of every respondent, we hope that he will always answer in the best possible way. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U155	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I have to ask you again. It wasn't unexpected that the meteorite fell from the sky, that we had suddenly opened schools and that we had a coronal situation, and that forced us to tender with one bidder. I've also been a member of the cabinet, and I can't imagine that if the government has recommended three offers, but I'm saying that, uh, what does this government recommendation matter to me, I want to take one offer. And the other side of the question is what he, I hope, will answer. I didn't remember signing any contracts myself during the Minister's time, which is why we have a chancellor at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U156	Thank you. It's a shame you didn't want to take any responsibility as a minister. I understood that this was, first of all, a government task for us, an urgent task, and I did not want to pass the responsibility on to the official. At the same time, when I gave my statement in the course of the procedure, I asked that, if this contract had been signed by the Chancellor, for example, or by the Deputy Chancellor, it was either during the misdemeanour procedure over them. And I was assured: yes, then it would be over them. But it was a government decision. Of course, the corona didn't fall from the sky. We knew there was a corona. But it is interesting why the Ministry of Social Affairs did not prepare for the widespread use of rapid tests to prevent the spread of coronavirus, especially when the government had made a very clear decision in autumn that schools must be open. This acquisition of medical supplies is not the task of the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry of Education and Research received this task from the government when the health sector failed to carry out its tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U157	Margit Sutrop, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U158	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I congratulate and thank you for your great commitment and for the work you have done during your term of office. My one subject I have been dealing with is the subject of higher education and, as part of my mistrust also concerns the issue of funding higher education, I would like to put my views on this issue. It is clear that, in fact, the problem is much older and the distrusters should be well aware that the operating support for higher education as a ratio to GDP has fallen for the last ten years, being now lower than in 2009 and also the Minister of the Centre Party among the distrusters could not solve this problem. In this sense, it is indeed very much required that everything be resolved in one year. At the same time, I know that you have stood firm for it so that the concerns of universities, as well as the conclusion of administrative agreements in the autumn state budget negotiations, can be resolved. I would ask again to recall here what amount you are asking for in the autumn budget negotiations, and the second was that higher education is closely intertwined with science. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How much have you contributed to science, such as solving the concerns of doctoral students...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U159	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U160	What is involved in higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U161	I ask the Minister to respond. Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U162	Thank you. The good Riigikogu has adopted the draft law on doctoral reform and a large proportion of 1%, which is directed towards research and development and 1% of this, which is added to the field of the Ministry of Education and Research, goes precisely to the reform of doctoral studies. And here, thanks to the previous government, which agreed that 1% of GDP would be allocated to R &amp; D, and this was maintained by the coalition with the Central Party, but yes, I have submitted an additional request to the Ministry of Finance to the State's budget strategy in order to ensure that funding for higher education in the next four years will increase by at least 15% in the next four years, which means that in 2023 there would also be an additional need of almost EUR 25 million, and from there on over four years this amount will increase, up to an amount of EUR 37,6 million already increased, and then we will really keep the level of funding for higher education at 1% or 1.1% of gross domestic product. It doesn't give rise to the important quality leap that universities are actually expecting, but it would be the basic funding with which universities can survive. And when we look at the funding for higher education in previous years, in the budget negotiations with a good coalition partner from the Centre Party, I asked for an increase of 7.3% in operating support for higher education, I received 0% and from within the sector I made EUR 5 million in funding for higher education, which made operating support growth of 3.1% and, looking at previous years, Mailis Reps did very well that 4.9% increased the operating grant for higher education before that year, it was EUR 7.4 million, but in previous years these increases in higher education activity support remained of the same order of magnitude as it was 3.1%: 2.8%, 3.1% and 2%, which was in the position of the Minister of Education in the Centre Party. But this year, where funding for higher education was increased by 4.9%, was the year when teachers' salaries were not raised at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U163	Tavi Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U164	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Well, there's an interesting story about this 26th office session. It was certainly not the result of the discussion in this office that the three offers should not be taken, that there is no time, that was certainly not the case. Also, you didn't inform me that you've already called a company on the 25th, and maybe you've made an agreement. But I'm pretty sure there was a discussion at this office that three offers should be made, both Minister Jaak Aab and Auditor General Janar Holm referred to this. And for the sake of the verbatim, I ask you now to repeat whether or not there was a guide to three offers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U165	Thank you. As I have said many times, I am also saying now: yes, we discussed three offers on this topic, and I clearly said to the government that I have been in contact with Selfdiagnostics, for whom we know and also the Ministry of Social Affairs knew that they have been piloting their tests in the school environment, and they have assured me that they will receive tests delivered by 1 November, and also for the sake of this procedure, I have gone through all my jats with my team from the same government meeting, and I will say very specifically there to my team that the government does not agree that we will be doing this to one operator until the end of the year of the contract, which was the original proposal of the ministry officials. I said that if we were to sign a contract with a single entrepreneur, it would have to be as short-term as possible and a maximum of one month, and that is what we did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U166	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U167	Dear waitress, The public procurement system and the State Support Services Centre, which do all this professionally, have been repeatedly praised here, and officials do all this professionally. But you mentioned that they really couldn't do it and would have missed their work, which is why you had to go to targeted procurement. What was their incompetence and stretching about? And then they said they gave you more advice. Was this advice to take one offer only from one company?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U168	Thank you. From the State Support Services Centre... Or, this third call for urgent tests, by that time we had reached an agreement with the State Support Services Centre that they would carry out the third procurement. And they started doing it in the form of public procurement, international procurement, and it was known that this process was long-term. This is what I was expected to do in a very short period of time, but the State Support Services Centre had been running the procurement for two months, when it turned out that we probably had to declare this procurement a failure, because there was a technical problem of some kind of labelling on these tests, as if there were no suppliers who would qualify. They had spent two months doing this procurement by the time it turned out we might not be able to get those tests from there. Then we consulted, I consulted with the Minister of State Administration, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, that what are the options in this situation if we do not receive these tests in time by means of a procurement organised by the State Support Services Centre. And then the State Support Services Centre itself advised us that the Ministry of Education and Research can resolve this situation by extending the existing agreement. And by the time they can go on with their contract or go on with their procurement, we'll have schools equipped with tests. I also introduced this solution to the government and the government agreed that we would take this opportunity because it was in our common interest that schools were being tested because, as a result of the rapid tests in schools, we also saw that we detected more than 6 000 infections per week by testing. So it was the contribution of the State Support Services Centre that they took the third procurement, they tried to find a solution at a critical moment, offered us a solution. At the time, no one told us that this solution was in any way contrary to the law. Neither the experts of my house nor the experts of the State Chancellery were able to appreciate that this might somehow be contrary to the law. They're gonna see if that's the case today. Indeed, the State Support Services Centre has apologized to our Ministry for doing their best, but at this point, the Ministry of Finance interprets this law differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U169	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am sincerely proud that we have a minister who fights like a lioness. And I actually wanted to thank you for the fact that you've always talked to us and talked about everything, the various problems that have been, and also these rapid tests. You also listened to us, which came from us as feedback through the voters that they wanted. And a very small, fourth grader, my own son said, please do everything you can to keep the schools open. And indeed, in their school their class went to school the whole time and everything was very well. I really hope that all these procedures will go well and that there will always be, in front of us, how to say, a person fighting for his field. I don't have a question, I'm just sincerely keeping my fingers crossed so everything goes well. Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U172	Thank you. Let me remind you that we are currently in the round of questions. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U173	Thank you, Minister. I will turn to the preliminary education bill. In particular, you agreed in the Committee on Culture that some of the provisions of this draft need to be rewritten, as they can be understood in this way that it is also possible to turn Estonian kindergartens into half Russian. And we had to look at the new wording of the Ministry in the Commission at the next meeting. Unfortunately, you sent in two officials who said the Ministry wasn't going to change anything. At the same time, you also canceled your meeting with the EKRE Group, where we had to discuss the same issue. And now my question is: do you admit that your cooperation with Parliament has not been very constructive and, in this case, is it still worth wondering that the drafts you have prepared will fail?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U174	Having worked in the Riigikogu for more than six years, I really expected that we would talk about changes to these wordings when it was time for amendments to the bill that we could find together a wording that would suit all parties, because the purpose of this wording was certainly not in any way to make the Estonian-language kindergartens Russian. And that is what I confirmed to you both during the processing of this draft or at first reading in the Chamber of Riigikogu, repeatedly said that we would find a wording in which there is no such doubt and, secondly, I really thought that we would do it during the processing of the amendments, that was my assumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U175	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U176	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In fact, I have no doubt that you have committed yourself to your work, but commitment does not mean that you can avoid breaking the law and then do not have to take responsibility. You originally said in your speech that you know what you have done and what you have not done, but, at the same time, after being interrogated at the Ministry of Finance, you have only understood where you are accused of what you have done. Did you, then, know by ignoring the procurement laws and breaking the law to a firm that was firm, by giving undue advantage to what you were doing, or didn't you know? Or when you asked the Prime Minister for advice and permission for a million deals, making him an accomplice to a crime, did you know what you were doing? Didn't the Prime Minister tell you that arranging and conducting such a transaction is contrary to several laws? And if you don't want to take responsibility here, why don't you tell your prime minister to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U177	Thank you very much. The fact that I understood, after saying what I was accused of, that sentence was said in the context that precisely those points which are being examined, such as the fact that the first procurement does not examine the supervision procedure of the Ministry of Finance, are precisely the second procurement and the conduct of the second procurement. That was said in this context. It was a question of which sections of the Public Procurement Act we relied on. We relied on § 49 and are supplemented by § 72.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U178	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. You're holding it here, aren't you? After all, the first tender wasn't at all, that's where you just made a random decision when it comes to procurement, so to speak, procurement. But I'm also gonna make a note of your party buddies, the pangy they're trying to do here, it's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Call them to order, don't do anything, it'll hurt you. And you demagogue here and jump from one subject to another. One thing is that you kept the schools open, but the court has said that your entire corona apartheid was illegal. And you knew already when you laid off people and forced them to do tests, that it was illegal, and yet you continued to do so. Now your claim that no one has referred to you how it could have been done better. I didn't point out how someone made five million dollars. And finally, I don't have a question for you because it's clear that you're adding a beautiful chapter to the corrupt history of your party, to the glorious corrupt history.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U180	Good fellows! Let me remind you, as before: we are in the round of questions. Jaak Aab, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Liina! Once again, it is a bit worthwhile to say that a delegation from the Reform Party did not ask for a cent more for higher education. These talks were very difficult in the country's budget strategy last spring. On the contrary, it was proposed to withdraw money from recreational education. Unfortunately, that was the case. Yeah, I get it, money is as much as it is and it has to be decided what's the priority. This was not a priority for the Reform Party. Now, of this urgency in the procurement. I also made one of these purchases, mask procurement, when there were no suppliers to Estonia. I took four comparable offers from China in two days and signed the agreement myself, because the officials said that we did not know if there would be one. I took political responsibility. I could have been here to report. Well, it happened that thanks to the ambassador and the good work these masks arrived in Estonia, a little late, but this whole batch came here. And the fine was also paid that they were late. The question is, if 15 or 20 companies were on the Agency's registry, why couldn't you ask for it there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U182	Thank you. Jaak, I asked for money for higher education at exactly the same amount as I asked for money for teachers' salaries, and I don't know where the negotiations between your delegations took place. But we made decisions in the government, and I remember very well how we discussed additional applications in the government, and I had it calculated that if teachers' pay rises by 7.3% and it reaches the national average, it would be fair to raise higher education operating support equally. I had spoken to the Council of Rectors and agreed with them that, when this 7.3% comes, this money would be directed primarily to the increase in the pay of teachers, so that it would be proportionate to the increase in teachers' salaries. And that was a very clear proposal from the Ministry of Education and Research, and that was what we discussed in the government. And I'm really glad that you did well, and I'm really glad we got a three-day contract and tests in schools, and no accidents happened with these tests, no kids hurt themselves. These fears were very great at the time, how these little children can handle these tests. And imagine if we had delivered tests to schools as a matter of urgency, which had not previously been piloted on children, how great this social fear would have been. This was an important argument that these tests have been used by children. This result has been positive, and I believe that, to a large extent, this has not led to any unpleasant incidents. On the contrary, the children did very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U183	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As a minister, you have been a convinced supporter and advocate of the vaccination of Estonian children. At the same time, we know from the outset that the final effect of these unfinished safety studies on vaccines is not known to both adults and children and young people, and I have not understood your conviction in this propaganda. Please tell me which knowledge, information, wisdom you have relied on in this way by exerting pressure on this vaccination, by carrying out such an activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U185	Thank you, good Annely! At the same time, you were also a member of your government when the scientific council gave us an overview of the effects of vaccination, and we also saw in practice that the effect of vaccination was very good in schools as well, up to an omicron wave, which passed largely from the vaccine, but in schools where the school family had been widely vaccinated, the virus could not quickly spread in these schools either. So in the school environments, we saw that vaccination was very useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U186	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U187	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Well, as much lying as this remote control has come in the last hour and a half, I haven't heard in a while. For that alone, you should simply discourage this office as a matter of urgency. Since you had no choice but to keep the schools open, and that's why you had to take the offer, continuing that this first purchase was a kind of procurement and so on and so forth and so on and so forth. But what I would ask is this: did your decision to buy from the company you bought from have also been affected by the fact that, without this actual procurement, the company that you selected and sold the tests at a significantly higher price than the other companies and those tests purchased from him in violation of the law, did it also be affected by the fact that the owner's husband has been a member of the Reform Party for nearly 10 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U188	Marko Lehes' husband is a member of the Reform Party? I don't know that person at all, I really don't. However, the Procurement Act, we cannot say that this first procurement was not a procurement, the Procurement Act promises to conduct a negotiated procurement without prior publication of a contract notice with a single economic operator, and I will say once again that the oversight officials have also confirmed that it was in line with the law at the moment, and by conducting this procurement we knew it, our knowledge was that we were acting in accordance with the law, because the legislator had offered such an opportunity. But the fact that Marko Lehes' husband is a reform party is what I hear from you for the first time, I don't know this person.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U189	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I would like to ask about the draft of early childhood education, which was rejected by the Riigikogu. No one doubts that the early childhood education system needs to be improved, but in the case of this draft, we can see that it was crude, unthinkable and did not take into account the interests of children, parents and the financial position of local authorities. I ask why you didn't take into account the local government's amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U191	Thank you. Local authorities were given a clearer division of tasks with this bill, and no new tasks were assigned to local authorities. Children must also receive support from local authorities today [support], children in need of help [must receive] support. What really changed was that all kindergarten groups, each Russian-language kindergarten group, must be hired by one teacher, at least one in Estonian. There are 215 kindergarten groups that are Russian-speaking and where there are no teachers in Estonian today. And to think that, as the state has now supported, 190 teachers are employed in Russian-speaking, predominantly Russian-speaking kindergartens and schools, they are in addition to the available staff. But in this draft, we did not expect an Estonian teacher to come in addition, but to come in place of a Russian teacher, which means that the costs would not have been more for the local government. In order for children to learn Estonian and speak Estonian, it is necessary that people who speak good Estonian speak to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U192	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Once again, when you listen, the question arises unwittingly as to whether a member of the Reform Party sometimes speaks the truth. I'm giving you this chance. I'm not talking about the corrupt past of the Ministry of Education, I'm talking about a bright future. The University of Tartu has new subjects, teaching human-centred social innovation and guidance. I just wanted to ask you about the guidance thing. Since this is an academic institution, it is likely that research on guidance will also be carried out. Could you please explain to which area of guidance is involved, for what purpose it is taught, will there be doctoral studies in guidance in the future? Tell me about it, please. You can tell the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U194	Thank you. We have universities autonomous and universities decide which specializations they open and which specializations they do not open. It's not the ministry's decision, even less the minister's decision. I understand that you dream of a country where a minister or a member of the Riigikogu says what a university should do. I think this is not the right approach, universities must be autonomous. And I certainly do not intend to interfere in this particular curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U195	Martin Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U196	It is customary here that people often attribute thoughts and words to others that they have not spoken or spoken. I will specify: we do not dream of such a country; we dream of a country where the Minister does not steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U197	Thank you! Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U198	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! I am here on the basis of Mr White's question, we wanted to meet with you on 23 May and just to talk about both early childhood education and other issues concerning both language learning and others. You practically rejected it, you're in Tartu and you can't come. That's an interesting excuse, of course. The question of you saying that you could have made proposals for early childhood education. However, I am deeply disappointed, frankly, with all the proposals that we have made, because practically these proposals always remain, how to say, not dealt with, simply rejected from the Commission. And that's why, don't you think, that we still had a reason not to trust in any further processing of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U199	Thank you. I had said in the Committee on Culture, and also here in the Riigikogu, that we were looking for a solution to make this wording clearer, clearer, because our common goal was that it would not be possible to Russianise the Estonian-language kindergarten in any way, and this is a perfectly normal parliamentary approach. Parliament has the right to amend draft laws and I did not have such a desire or desire that, if we in the Committee on Culture find the appropriate wording, then in any way that if you are going to work against it, on the contrary, if the Commission considers that the wording is correct and good, then Parliament too is entitled to adopt this law with this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U200	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U201	Thank you! I would point out that the Minister... Well, now I can't use the word lies, but I'm just saying that he's not competent or he's not aware because at this meeting, the Committee on Culture, he wasn't there. There were officials of the Ministry of Education and Research, and we discussed exactly the same question that we will then do with this law on early childhood education, this specific section, which is ambiguous. They were communicating... We didn't reject it for nothing, because the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research were very clear that they would keep this section in there. One reason was that we have so many ethnic minorities. In this sense, it was their communication to realise that no matter what amendments we are proposing, they are not going to change anything. That was the reason. And since you were not at that meeting, please do not spread this incompetent view that we could have done so between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U202	Thank you! A procedural question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U203	Thank you! I really do have a procedural question. Also for the sake of the verbatim. I would like to know if the format of mistrust has changed. Is there now such a mistrust that the distrustful blunders, spins, and lies? Is it built like this now? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U204	Thank you. The whole format that is in the Riigikogu, at any of the different stages. is that you have to speak honestly, clearly. specifically talk about the matter and also ask. Well, that's the way this format is and it's changed, Kert Kingo, hasn't. A procedural question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U205	Thank you. I understand that the so-called procedural questions have come out of the procedural questions format, and I, too, am leaving now because...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U206	Please don't leave!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U207	And I ask the President whether he has at some point caught the ministers on this board lying, perplexing, I don't know, doing anything else that was previously mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U208	Thank you. As I have said, the manager does not intervene in what is being asked or answered exactly. The manager can only ask us to stay on the subject and not lie. The fact that procedural questions, as you say, Mr Jaanson, have changed in time, especially since the beginning of its composition, is true. Question, non-procedural, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. It took an hour and a half for you to be able to tell me, under which paragraph, this negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice was conducted. It turned out to be § 72. Its first paragraph states nicely that the contracting authority shall propose to an economic operator whose economic and financial status and technical and professional competence are expected to be sufficient for the proper performance of the contract. But you have proposed to Selfdiagnostics OÜ, which is responsible for producing other medical and dental instruments and materials. It's a mystery. Now there's some kind of production company, some factory is going to make a deal. Please describe why you chose the one who is not engaged in procurement, but in production, and also describe the technical and professional competences of the economic and financial situation as laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U210	Thank you. Good member of the Riigikogu! On your question, I have listened very carefully to you, on the previous question you have just said that you do not want a specific paragraph, but the principle on which we followed. I was talking about what principle we followed, and when you confirmed in the course of the procedural question that the Minister did not answer your question that you wanted to have a specific section, I also told you about that section. And once again, I assure you that Selfdiagnostics is selling or selling at least at that moment, I don't know what they're doing right now, high-quality high-speed tests, and the Health Board also checked the quality of these rapid tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U211	Margit Sutrop. Margit Sutrop, please! I'm sorry! A mike for Kalle Grünthal, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously specific from the wrong minister's mouth. I don't know where he's gonna get the data, I'm gonna take it from the business register. There is a list of activities and there is no record of any rapid tests being carried out, specifically: the production of other medical and dental instruments and materials. I'd like you to write a verbatim note that the minister is lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U213	Margit Sutrop, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U214	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. You were with the Centre Party in the government, and my question is this: would you ever have thought that if you were so enthusiastic about Estonian education, this same Central Party, together with the EKRE, would have mistrusted you for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U215	First of all, tests are also a medical device, they are tests. Of course, it was known that we had very different views during the transition to Estonian-language education in the Coalition with the Centre Party, and I think that despite our different views, we got a lot of things done, and together with the Centre Party, for example, that we really have no matter who the next minister is today, we have an Estonian-language education plan, we got the Kohtla-Järve School nationalized, we got large Russian-language primary schools in Kohtla-Järve and Narva. Their reconstruction has been supported with the aim that early immersion schools will change from them. There were a number of things that did not require a decision by the government which had the power of the minister to decide. For example, to increase the order for training, but also to change the qualification requirements, that if today we have 2 300 educational staff whose language requirements, whose language skills do not meet the legal requirements and these teachers can work today on open-ended contracts, I hope that I will be able to change that, because it is very much supported by the sector. Recently, this draft regulation came from the coordination circle to include language requirements in the qualification requirements for both teachers and support professionals, so that those teachers and school leaders whose language requirements do not meet the requirements for a fixed-term contract or annual contract with them. So, in fact, we got a lot done with the Centre Party, and I am very grateful to the Centre Party for that, and the fact that it culminated in the Early Childhood Education Act, it came as a surprise to me in that sense, because in the government, no Minister of the Central Party protested or took the floor against this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U216	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Your predecessor, Mailis Reps, launched a pilot project in 2018, in which 300 Estonian-language teachers were hired in Russian-speaking kindergartens in four years, the public order of Estonian language and Estonian-language teachers was increased in university management contracts. And from your answers today, you have also praised this pilot project, how successful it has been and how successful it has been. Yet you did not continue to expand this project, as had been done for four years before you, both by Mailis Reps and by Jaak Aab. Why do you undermine education in Estonian and reduce the resilience of schools and kindergartens to deal with children whose native language is not Estonian? And if you say that this is all bullshit, please also confirm with some real facts that you have done that there will be more teachers with such special skills in the future than ever before.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U218	Thank you for your question. By the time I arrived at the Ministry, +1 had 120 teachers recruited with the teacher program, since 2018. In my time this program expanded by 70 teachers, 70 teachers were recruited while I was a minister. And now attention, Jaak Aab, too, was not planned for this year's money to pay these teachers' wages. This +1 teacher program was project-based, and every year money was requested to pay these teachers' salaries. And I was also in the position that I had to apply for money to carry out this expansion. A total of EUR 5 million was earmarked for the sector, and two thirds of this EUR 5 million went precisely to +1 for teachers' salaries. So to blame me for stopping this program or not expanding it is very unfair. Jaak Aab and Jaanus Kariliid have publicly said that 300 teachers have been employed during their reign. No, there are no 300, there are 191 teachers at work today and 70 of them have been recruited during my term of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U219	Mart Helme! Sorry, procedural question, Jack Aab!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U220	I am very sorry, but it must be said that this '+1' programme was financed earlier from the budgetary resources of the HTM, which is why I have to point out the procedure. Both Mailis Reps and Jaak Aab actually made this decision that it would be financed from budgetary resources, and the government even gave Liina Kersna money, but it had been decided earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U221	Thank you for that clarification. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U222	Thank you, Mr. Ratas! You have given some very good answers today to inappropriate questions. May I ask you once again to say that procedural questions are another matter and not a correction of the content of the answers, where opinions differ. Would you do it again? That's way beyond the bounds of what's going on here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U223	Thank you. You are right, the content of procedural questions is different, but you know it very well when you put your hands up, the President does not see what is being asked in the context of this question, and just as I previously answered one of the fellow Members, the truth is that this question of procedural questions has been given a whole new impetus or meaning from the beginning in this composition of the XIV Riigikogu. But yes, in terms of content, I agree with you that the content of procedural questions is that if a person really does not have a microphone, there is some other concern that it will then be announced with a procedural question. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U224	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The previous procedural question also convincingly showed that there was a person in front of us who was impertinently wrestling and lying. Unindicted, he's waving and lying. Repeatedly, he's been disproved and disproved. Here's my question. Mrs Kersna, you are the subject of proceedings, you are the subject of a suspicion of misdemeanour. Have you not heard of such a thing as, in this case, to take political responsibility and resign? Why haven't you done this so far, and why do you come before us hypocritically to lie and lie? We understand, of course, your group's attempts to direct the focus all the time on so-called Estonian-language education, which is essentially Russification of Estonian kindergartens, Russification of Estonian schools. The way Kremlin agents with the VEB Foundation are tailed between their teeth is the way they do. When are you resigning?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U225	Thank you. First, to Jack Aab. You may have made the decision in your plans that in 2021 the "+1 teacher" programme must be expanded, but the fact is that it is not a blur, it is a fact that the money from the Ministry base was not taken into account for its expansion. Wasn't counted! Come on, I'm the minister of this ministry right now, and I see these numbers in the budget that was planned and wasn't planned. It wasn't planned. I asked for extra money and got that extra money. Of the EUR 5 million that I received in addition, two thirds went to extend it [the programme]. If I didn't want to expand this "+1 teacher" program, I wouldn't have asked for the money. I would not have extended this programme and would have directed a larger support measure to Estonian-language primary schools, for example, where many Russian-speaking children are already studying today, because their parents want to receive a high-quality Estonian-language education. But basic schools have not been supported in teaching a large number of other-language children, and they are in trouble and our own Estonian-speaking children have also suffered. However, I decided to expand the "+1 teacher" program and find additional resources for it. And, dear Mart Helme, I resign on the same day as the DA's office decides to open an investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U226	Good fellows! Also because of Jürgen Ligi's question, I think it makes sense for everyone to look again at § 74 for a second. It states the following, protests and questions about the procedure for conducting the sitting, paragraph 1: "If a member of the Riigikogu finds that the rules for conducting the sitting are being violated, he may lodge a protest with the President of the sitting. " Paragraph 2: "If a member of the Riigikogu wishes to have an explanation of the rules governing the conduct of the sitting, he may ask the President of the sitting a question. " Well, for example, how many questions are on the agenda and will only the representatives of the political groups get the floor in the negotiations? That's how I interpret it. But as I said, when a hand sign is erected, the manager will never know what will end this issue. But yes, the meaning of the law has been that. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would ask you once again to explain what your firm conviction is based on the pressure on our children to be vaccinated in schools. I'm just saying, yes, you mentioned that we were in government together, really, we were. And I remember very well how Dr. Irja Lutsar pointed out several times that vaccination of children needs to be considered very seriously because there is a high risk of both myocarditis and pericarditis. The Nordic countries also stopped vaccination with Moderna, for example, for the same reason. At the same time, we had a disturbing letter upstairs in e-school, calling for vaccination by saying that it is safe, it is effective and it is still preventative. My question is whether you are prepared to be responsible for any possible health damage in the future, both for these children and for their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U228	Thank you. Fortunately, the Republic of Estonia is a republic in which decisions to vaccinate and vaccinate are made by the immunoprophylaxis Commission, not by the Minister, and certainly not by the Minister of Education. If there's anything political about this vaccination, these policies will be made in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Your good colleague Tanel Kiige was responsible for that at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U229	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I have to say, I'm a little surprised. The answer you answered to the question of Taavi Asa was that it was decided in the cabinet that you had to take three offers, but you said it wouldn't happen, and you took one offer. And the Prime Minister agreed. It's quite surprising that this is the way to rule. But now I'd like to ask for more. Before October 25 or 26, when the call went out, did you consult or received instructions from members of the Reform Party? You were thanked today for your visit to the political group and for consulting and reporting. You have not been to the EKRE Group. I ask you: did you receive input before placing the procurement by members of the Reform Party, how should you carry out this procurement procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U231	Thank you. First of all, the government didn't give me a guideline to take three offers. It was under discussion to make sure that there were three offers, and we appreciated that we did not have the time to do so, and we know that there is one company that has its own tests in piloted schools, and we are making a short-term agreement with this company in order to expand the next procurement when there is already more knowledge of how rapid testing can be carried out at school. And in answer to the second question: no, no Reform Party told me how and with whom to make any procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U232	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U233	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I'm so upset by the dull lying that goes on here that I really can't. It has been said both today and in advance in the press that you did not have any other choice in making this first purchase, that it was necessary to decide quickly and it was necessary to buy quickly. And see, there was a company that could be used for that. Of course, it was a company that didn't have any money, had to be paid upfront, but I know I was contacted by a company that had previously sold fast tests to the Ministry of Education at a lower cost. At the Ministry of Education there was a previous experience of cooperation with them. Somehow this company wasn't contacted for this quick purchase. Well, the story that we didn't have a choice and we had to do it, it's just lying to the public and lying to the Riigikogu. I have a question whether you don't understand anything that's going on in that ministry, or are you a cynical liar? Which one is it, or are they both at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U234	Thank you for your question. First, the Ministry of Education and Research has certainly not purchased rapid tests in large quantities. We have requested an additional budget of EUR 800000 in order to give schools the opportunity to buy rapid tests. This money was distributed to local governments, or schoolkeepers, who then bought fast tests with this money. We did and do weekly surveys among the schools, and at that time we also studied which rapid tests were purchased, and this ampluaa was very wide and clearly not child-friendly rapid tests were purchased. And that's why we didn't get ready to give money directly to the schoolmasters to buy fast tests. I would also like to remind you that this was the time when rapid testing was not widespread. Today we have significantly more knowledge of rapid testing, the quality of tests and the quality of these tests have been much more appreciated today. And then the other one, on the afternoon of October 27, sent a letter from Medivar OÜ saying they had 300,000 tests and they'd be ready to deliver them. It was October 27th. On 28 October, we already signed an agreement with Selfdiagnostics, because on 28th the government also allocated money to buy fast tests. But the preliminary work had already been done with the Selfdiagnostic, we had already prepared the bottoms of the contract so that, once the government allocated the money, we could quickly sign it so that the company could immediately resume its activities, because 28 October was Thursday and we needed tests in real schools by 1 November. Medivar didn't make us an offer, it didn't say we could offer 300,000 tests at a certain price. Yeah, I've been looking into whether Medivar was answered, and I've realized they weren't answered. Yes, the Ministry certainly should have replied to Medivari that we have gone through a negotiated procurement without prior publication of a contract notice with one economic operator and we invited Medivari to participate in another procurement and they also participated in another procurement, but unfortunately they did not win this procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U235	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U236	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. It is very difficult to believe that, in the case of negotiations with one tenderer, especially if an advance payment is still paid, there is no background known to be sitting on the other side of the table. Having been in practice, it is very difficult to believe. But I'd ask you, if it was urgent, it was the weekend, I realize that the goal was actually very right and correct, but it's a matter of how it was done. Was it not under discussion either that we could make a cheaper purchase, let's say, initially 200,000, 300,000500000, and would have won time to just take things a little more calmly so that it might have been more accurate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U237	Thank you. The problem is that if we had made an even smaller amount of this first procurement, we should have made the next procurement even faster. Because when we got a decision from the government that when we signed a contract with one of the entrepreneurs, we have to make this contract for a minimum period of one month, and the fact that we did it for one month, it put us under very great pressure. The next call also had to be made very urgent, because this time, this one month is a very short month in the tender procedure, and we really started it right away. From November 1st, quick tests started in schools. On 4 November we asked the State Support Services Centre for help so that they could come with us in this procurement. We were told that, unfortunately, we were not able to do so urgently, and we already sent out an offer to seventeen companies on 8 November. So it really was really, really fast. In order for us to have made this first tender in even smaller volumes, we could not have done the next tender any more calmly, on the contrary, we should have done it even faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U238	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You've been asked many times today whether you're being honest on the remote and whether you're telling the truth. I really have to admit that quite a number of facts are where you are wrong. First of all, we come to the discussion of the Government of the Republic, where you spoke about this public procurement, that you are preparing it. There you were very clearly drawn to this, and not by your fellow colleagues, but by the Auditor General, that this procurement, if you do so, be short-term, be sure to take three offers, so that it is fair and transparent. And you said you'd take responsibility for it. Well, today we see that you're evading responsibility. But, in fact, you and this company have a very large connection, and the leader's spouse of this company is a reform party, and the initial pilot project of this company took place in a school where the director is a reform party. You yourself took part in a foreign visit for 10 days, where you were with this company. You yourself said from the remote that you didn't know this entrepreneur. Ten days on an outbound mission with ten people, I'm sure you do. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So please put your hand on your heart and tell me you don't know this person and you don't have anything to do with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U240	Good questioner, your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U241	Thank you. Starting at the end, yes, indeed, I put my hand on my heart. Maybe I have to admit to every middle party on behalf of my husband that I really didn't know Marko Lehest. There were no ten people in this business delegation at the time, and there were considerably more people there. And I've also asked the State Chancellery to take out how much this business delegation was and how much it was directed to the press. I didn't do business or head of the Prime Minister's office. I didn't know the entrepreneurs, and I didn't talk to them on a daily basis. That wasn't my ampoua. And I really didn't know about Marko Leht even during this visit that such a person was in this business delegation. I hadn't had a word with him before, but by chance, I don't know, I didn't say hello at the airport. But I didn't have any more contact with Marko Lehes, that's a fact. Ask him, too. Or how am I supposed to prove that I've never had any contact with him before? I have repeatedly said that I will, of course, take responsibility if it turns out that, for example, the prosecutor's office is starting an investigation. Of course, I cannot be a minister when the prosecutor's office has started an investigation into misdemeanour proceedings. The Ministry of Finance has also said that they are not saying that I personally have done something wrong in this process, they are currently investigating it. I have said that I will take responsibility for the fact that, if I am fined, I will personally pay this fine, I will not ask the party that this fine will be paid for me, and I will personally pay that fine if that fine is actually imposed. And in the government, yes, I have admitted this repeatedly from the remote that the debate was going on to make it more secure if there were several offers. That's right. But we realized that those days were so few, and we knew we had to be sure that the tests used were child-friendly tests. This was a very important criterion at the time. I wouldn't have wanted this on my conscience that tests that are not suitable for use by a child would be passed on to schools on a massive scale. So at that point in the knowledge, under these circumstances, I personally tried to do my best, and my team certainly did its best to enable the children to attend school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U242	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I'd like to ask you one more thing. This concerns what Mr Kingo asked for, that the sale of these tests was, I think, news on 27 November at the ERR that children were selling these tests. Have you been doing this, and what they did to bring this thing out, like, how to say, really?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U244	Thank you. Certainly, the resale of tests in schools was not widespread in any way. On the contrary, children and their parents wanted them to be able to go to school safely. If a school boy decided that he would make money with it, and it got to the media right away, I think it was a case-by-case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U245	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns education for the children of Ukraine. As of the day before yesterday, 12600 children from Ukraine have come to Estonia. I don't know exactly how many of them are school age. A very big part, I suppose. The government is committed to directing them into regular learning, integrating them, teaching them in Estonian, in part in Estonian and in part in Estonian. With what capacity has this plan been made? How do you expect the number of children I imagine thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of children to be sent to Estonian schools? And how do you justify the adoption of such a strange decision that they need to learn both Estonian and Estonian, integrate them here when Ukraine expects them back? We expect the war to end soon. Why this waste of administrative resources in a situation where they go back to Ukraine, in terms of Estonian I mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U247	You know as well as I do that the situation in Ukraine has not improved at all. Rather, the situation in Ukraine is very critical and we cannot in any way assume that these unfortunate children and their parents can quickly return to Ukraine. This assumption does not hold water. We must take into account that these children and young people remain for more than a year, at least a large part of them. And so that Ukrainians can quickly do well in Estonian society and that it is not wasted time for them, even in terms of children's learning, then the most effective way is to teach them the official language if they are in a state language environment. This is exactly the same as in the case of children with a second mother tongue in Estonia: we can see that if children are in a Russian-speaking environment, they will not learn the official language or a very small part of them will be able to learn the national language. A similar path has gone, as far as I know, to all the Member States of the European Union to which war refugees have arrived, that children are integrated into the existing education system. Today we know that according to the Estonian Education Information System, 5 000 children have been admitted to our education. The state supports these children with a larger bounty, with a total of EUR 76 million in cooperation with the Centre Party, received this area, the Ukrainian military refugee aimed at continuing education for children, in order to provide them with greater language training. I have gone to schools a lot and seen that integration into our education system has gone well. Of course, there is a problem in Tallinn, because most children and young people of war have arrived in Tallinn, and that is why the country has come very clearly to help Tallinn. We created the Liberty School, where all 7th and 12th are welcome. Class 1 students. There'll be at least 800 students. We have already received almost 300 applications to attend this school today. We have an open consultation room, including the Ukrainian psychologists employed in the Pathfinder, who advise families. For example, a hundred Ukrainian teachers participated in the Vabaduse School Teachers Competition. We can certainly integrate very good Ukrainian teachers into the school, because this school will operate in the language immersion method, that part of the study is in Estonian and that part is in Ukrainian. I very much hope that the state's support will also help Tallinn, that we have created so many study places in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U248	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I understood from your questions that, in the case of the fast tests, you had been forced to do so, because the public authorities, who really should have done this, failed to carry out their tasks. I would ask: what was the problem, then, that was the problem of the general government's ability to manage the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U250	Thank you. Indeed, on 14 October, the government gave a task to the Ministry of Social Affairs to organise a screening project for student testing immediately after school break, and the government also said that this testing could continue to be carried out on a regular basis. I cannot say exactly that this concerns the administration of another ministry, why it happened that, if it had originally been planned to carry out this testing in all schools and the company also estimated that it could do it, it was, at some point, assessed that it would not be able to do it. Since only 12 schools really remained in this sample, they are all in writing, these protocols how it was achieved. I think that since the focus of the health experts at the Ministry of Social Affairs was clearly in the health sector at the time, to save the health sector, because the hospitals were about to break down, because we knew that the number of corona patients was about to reach over 600 and this is already very painful. And, of course, the Ministry of Education and Research focused primarily on education, education for children and young people, and to keep schools open, that there was probably also the motivation to achieve the result we had far higher than at the time for the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U251	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are obviously too few 190 teachers in this +1 programme, Estonia's real need, Estonia needs thousands of such teachers in real life, so that this project is successful and that Estonian language can be taught in language. I understand that you have fought hard to ensure that this project receives additional funding, but it was not successful in this fight. That money wasn't given to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U253	Anti.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U254	Well, too little was given, because the need is more than once. And I wasn't in the discussion of their government, but in the Committee on Monetary Affairs you never indicated that you would have problems financing this project or that there would be problems financing education in Estonian. But that's it. Could you describe who opposed the government office in order to invest more money in education in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U255	Each minister stood up for his field. I had an additional application for the transition to education in Estonian. And there was a very clear concern from the house that we had recruited new teachers in the +1 teacher program, but we really did not have the money to pay these teachers' salaries, and five out of five million euros went two thirds to pay the salaries of these teachers. And, as I said earlier, in the area of language policy in general education and vocational education, the Ministry of Education and Research has never had as much budget as it has in the year that I have managed it, EUR 9.2 million is the budget in this area. I am fairly certain that next year the budget in this area will be much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U256	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, good Liina! Enviable professionalism, factual accuracy and dignity. You will be dignified even if you are slandered or asked questions that should not be asked in this Chamber. Are you willing to swear on your husband's behalf? It's embarrassing for those colleagues. But when they start writing a biography book about you, I'm pretty sure they're gonna do it, I'm gonna have the title "Minister who dared to decide." Would you tell your colleagues once again how many positive fast tests were found in this very first week thanks to this procurement and how many infection chains were prevented by it? Or, in fact, we don't know or ever know how many lives were actually saved, not so much because of COVID, but we know what lockdown is, its outcome, depression, and also suicides.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U258	Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U259	Thank you! I would like to ask the President of the sitting to explain to the members of the Reform Party that we have a motion of distrust at the moment, not an event of gratitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U260	Thank you. We have a motion of mistrust at the moment, that is true, but any questioner can ask, and there was also a question on the question of Toomas Kivimägi. So please, Minister, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U261	Thank you. It is quite interesting to suggest that perhaps the Riigikogu could also perform thanks to ministers. But funny. During the first week, when we started the rapid tests, more than 1000 positives in North-East Estonia were discovered and then gradually these figures started to decline, and not only at school did they start to fall, but they started to fall in society as well. And the health experts, why they wanted to direct schools to distance, were that the child gets the virus at school, often the children were asymptomatic, they didn't know they were carrying the virus and going to the grandparents who are at risk. And if this grandparent has not been vaccinated, there is a very high probability that the child will inadvertently lead to his or her grandparent's illness and it will definitely end or will most likely end in the hospital. Fear was about the increase in the hospital load, because we saw that he was growing rapidly. And actually, it's still remarkable that during the omicron strain, where, remember, we really had 5,000 PCR positives a day. We never imagined such numbers in the past. And at the same time, schools were open and as a result of rapid testing, we detected 5500 in a few weeks, even more than 6,000 fast tests positive in a few weeks, and these schools could be safely open. In my opinion, this is a very interesting material of analysis, which actually had a financial impact in terms of reducing the hospital burden, both in terms of reducing educational gaps for children and young people. The OECD has carried out various calculations and assessed, for example, the impact of distance learning as even a percentage and a few lower future GDPs, even in these orders of magnitude, it is said that if we do not invest, support children and young people in the learning gaps that arise systematically as a result of distance learning, this will have very significant impacts in the future. And we tried to mitigate this remarkable influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U262	Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U263	Thank you, Mr President. A while ago, in Estonia, it was the custom to apologize to one another and send cakes and whatever. I, too, Minister, would like to apologize to you today for the brainwashing that the Riigikogu was trying to arrange for you. First of all, you won't be taken, those who are here today will not take you down. That is one thing, and I am convinced that the people are at your side, but this debate, the so-called debate, is rather hate speech or living your lives without living it. I'd say what's going on here. But my question to you. My question to you is about your former partners. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And specifically, what do you recommend in the transition to education in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U264	Good questioner, your time! A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U265	Thank you. I am now hearing such an interesting point from the previous speaker. Did you understand that mistrust should be stopped at all and banned because it's like a hate speech or something? When we mistrust someone, we draw attention to problems, it's just like an angry speech. We have also said here before that, of course, right, honourable reform parties have the opportunity here to give support, what they have done, they are ministers praised and fully understood, it is their minister. But the other side, no matter what we say here, are we just like hate speakers? Did you hear the suggestion that we put an end to mistrust because it's a hate speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U266	Thank you. Ambiguity is a mistrust, and it has a specific order of how it can be presented. At the moment, it has been submitted in accordance with the procedure and, you are right, in the end, there will be a vote. Who's in favour, who's against. And then we find out what the result of mistrust is. Mart Helme, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U267	Thank you. I'm with these hate speech speakers and who are here saying that someone is living their life without living, and I don't know what yet, I would remind you that when I was distrustful once, there were six hours of mistrust, and the meanness was more than ever, including the same Liina Kersna, who is currently sitting on the remote and is distrustful. So the charges of evil, the charges of evil, the personal attacks brought here by the Reform Party, let's remember how they screamed at Kert Kingo here, accusing him of lying, the lying minister cannot continue. I also recall to Ivi Eenmaa how he wrote a completely false article when we had a provoked incident before the Riigikogu, where Indrek Tarand interrupted the meeting, where participants in the meeting intervened, participants in the demonstration, how he wrote, how he was beaten, beaten with hands and beaten with his feet, find your article, no hand and foot beating. Lying, stealing the state, destroying the Estonian nation state, this is the mission of the Reform Party and accusing those who disagree with it of some vicious and unlived life. Well, frankly, come to your senses!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U268	Thank you. Evil and anger could and should certainly be less in this hall. I agree with that. I now recall what I read here some time ago about our Home and Working Procedures Act, this is § 74, these are the same protests and questions about the conduct of the hearing. The paragraph one and paragraph two which governs them are as follows: "If a member of the Riigikogu finds that the rules governing the conduct of a sitting are being violated, he may lodge a protest with the President of the sitting." Paragraph 2: "If a member of the Riigikogu wishes to have an explanation of the rules governing the conduct of the sitting, he may ask the President of the sitting a question." A procedural question. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U269	Thank you! Encouraged by Ivi Eenmaa's speech, I want an explanation of the procedure for conducting the sitting. I remember when I was being so-called Reform Party taunted, brazenly, and the very people who are now playing victim and victim, very viciously slandered and very ugly. I have the question: do we have separate arrangements that, for example, if the Reform Party makes mistrusts or enquiries, there are rules that apply to them, but if, for example, the EKRE is involved in mistrust, they are always an hate speech? Is that how it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U270	Thank you. This is not yet the case at the initiative of the Reform Party. So there is no such procedure. And now I have a request to the Minister for Education and Science that you answer the question of Ivi Eenmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U271	Thanks for the opportunity. I certainly recommend that the Centre Party be brave and go along with the implementation of Estonian-language education in early childhood education, because I am quite sure that a large part of their own voters also expect and support it. For example, when I went to Lasnamäe in the Suur-Pae kindergarten, which is a Russian-language kindergarten, and where education in Estonian and also in Estonian is very enthusiastic, the leader said very clearly that parents expect children to learn the national language as early as possible. And if they learn the national language nicely in kindergarten, for example there in Suur-Pae kindergarten, where they really can, then the problem is that there are too few immersion classes in Tallinn to go on to develop their language. So the problem is that even if in kindergarten they get their own good basis for learning Estonian, there are too few immersion classes in the first classes. So we all stand together to ensure that all Estonian children and young people receive a very good education in Estonia and that they do not have glass ceilings in front of them because they simply do not speak the official language.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U272	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U273	Thank you. Madam Secretary! Among today's stupid questions, in addition to those before, was Anneli Oti's, who started asking you to take responsibility for vaccine damage. It still makes you wonder what was going on in those heads and what was going on at government meetings. Was it true that this test topic from last year is on the table because there was a debate about whether there was a corona, whether it was allowed to be vaccinated, and whether it was allowed to be tested? Is this the argument why, six months later, the criticism of their own actions on corona testing is being brought to the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U274	Thank you. There were certainly no discussions with the Centre Party in the government on whether or not there is a corona and, in my understanding, or at least only Anneli Ott expressed his sceptical attitude towards vaccination. All the other ministers, as I understand it, were very clearly in favour of vaccination, but Anneli Ott did not make a secret of it, and what was right and understandable was that he was very skeptical about the vaccination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U275	A procedural question, Helle-Moonika Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U276	Thank you, President-in-Office. I heard a strange expression like "silly questions" from a pre-questioner's mouth. Did you understand whether Jürgen Ligi meant his questions or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U277	Thank you. I thought I'd respond to that, too, given Jürgen Ligi's very sharp tongue, but of course I didn't. But I don't think it's right that we label another professional's question, how did Jürgen Ligi say that? You're a moron. I do not think that this is an example of good practice and respectful attitude in this Chamber. But, yeah, I didn't get involved. Since you asked for it, I've given you my opinion. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, on my previous question, I made a few statements, but I repeat that the pilot project was held at a school led by a reform party, a very clear connection with your party. This company, which received an advance of one and a half million euros by the State, owed EUR 35000 to the State one month before. I think that these are, in my opinion, quite eloquent facts about the fact that this does not seem fair and that it is not fair, but I will come to my question. I think you're a smart woman. And you actually know how to draw adequate conclusions. Your good partner in coalition negotiations, Mr Seeder, said that you have not drawn adequate conclusions from the fact that you have acted in this way and have erred in this public procurement. My question is whether Mr Ceder is right, whether you are able to draw adequate conclusions or not? And are you going to say today from the remote that if a new coalition agreement is made, you are not the minister in this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U279	Yes, I am adequate, and I certainly do not say from this remote control that I am not the Minister of Education and Science in the next coalition, but, as we know, as a new coalition, the Minister's portfolios will be reallocated and, if it is agreed that the Ministry of Education and Research will assume responsibility for another coalition partner, of course, this is a decision, and then I will certainly not continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U280	Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U281	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have given an orientation and, before answering a question to your colleague, you mentioned that children of Ukrainian refugees should go to a school in Estonian, especially there. In Tallinn, this means that Estonian-language schools should take on a double burden. You also mentioned the School of Liberty, but it takes on only part of the burden because, as I understand, there will be a 7-12 study. Class 1 students. Have you communicated with the principals of the school and discussed it in Estonian-language schools, are they prepared for such a burden? How can they cope, and why can't part of the burden be taken on by Russian-language schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U282	Thank you for your question. By the way, this was the decision of the Cabinet, which also included the Centre Party and the Ministers of the Centre Party, where the government decided that children of war refugees should be directed primarily to Estonian-language schools. We know today that 20% of the children who have arrived are in Russian kindergartens or schools. A parent has a clear right to decide which school he wants to put his child in. And if the parent is convinced that he definitely wants to put his child in a Russian-speaking school, there is no way to stop it. Also, this principled decision and guidelines of the government cabinet meeting, that children go first and foremost to Estonian-language schools, is not the kind of decision that will be enforced. And we see that just under 20% of all 5,000 children who are registered in the education information system are in Russian kindergartens and schools. At the meeting with the Mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, we discussed the problem and it is perfectly understandable that the burden in Tallinn is considerably higher and that is why together we reached such an agreement that the city of Tallinn will then do its Räägu study place, they did it very quickly, they will do a very good job and there, on the basis of this meeting, I can say that it was said that at least 600 children can be brought to study. We can bring at least 800 children to school. And I believe that these children will receive a very good education there, so we have come to help Tallinn clearly. For example, one question from the school leaders, Tallinn's school leaders wrote me written questions, I do meet with the board of the school leaders' association every week, with very few exceptions every week, and we have been in constant contact and exchange of information, but there was one question about how to psychologically support these children. We know from a survey in schools that there are already at least eight Ukrainian psychologists and surprise surprises working in schools today that, given that almost half of the children of war refugees are in Harju County and Tallinn, three of these eight psychologists are employed in Harju County and one is only in Tallinn. I do not know why so few of these psychologists have been employed in Tallinn, even though there are so many children. The state itself has employed four Ukrainian psychologists in every area of Estonia and two psychologists are currently involved in the Vabaduse School team to advise families and children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U283	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U284	Thank you. Dear Minister, So far, the facts and evidence speak the language that the Minister of Education and Science, at the head of which you have also done a very good job in your area of responsibility. And you have done this in cooperation with the entire government. The question that has arisen in this Chamber is that the government has either rejected or given too little of your funding proposals, but I have come up with a very specific question in the sense that these projects and the funding of projects that you have taken to the government, how many of you from the government, how much of this has the government agreed to funding or some have been rejected. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U285	Thank you. I don't think there are any ministers who would get all the wishes in the budget negotiations, all the additional requests granted, as well as in my case. We were talking about the teacher's salary. I asked for an increase in teachers' salaries this year, 7.3%, got 5%, the remaining 2.3%, which was the sum of EUR 9 million, we put teachers' salaries within the sector. I did not get the money to finance higher education, even though we applied for additional money to finance higher education, and also in order not to remain at zero, EUR 5 million to finance higher education, we have put it there. But with regard to rapid tests, the procurement of rapid tests, the acquisition of funds to obtain rapid tests, we did not have any disagreements in the coalition, and the sums we asked for, we also received them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U286	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! You spoke before, described how you took responsibility, signed the contracts yourself. That I asked that maybe it was quite the contrary that you were in a state of compulsion that the Ministry's top officials or the Chancellor did not agree to put these signatures there, because they knew and anticipated that this process, this procedure, had been incorrect, this procurement and guessed what we might be facing in this case. Was it that the Chancellor, for example, refused to sign it and informed you as well, warned that this was not the correct method of procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U288	Thank you. The specialists of constitutional law have also explained this to me so that the Minister can be held accountable precisely when officials say in writing that the decision that the Minister intends to take is contrary to the law, but the Minister still makes that decision, it is justified that ministers are being dealt with and punished if necessary. In this case, we made those decisions on the team. I am absolutely certain that both my Chancellor and the Head of the Legal Department believed and believe today that we acted in accordance with the law. All these agreements went through the formal round of coordination and did not come to me with any complaints that this decision would somehow be illegal or wrong. We all believed and acted together at that moment within the limits of our best knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U289	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U290	Thank you, good Chairman! Good mistrust! You said in good faith and faith, even though there have been repeated requests and three necessary offers. The second question, which still does not make sense, is why you signed it, although you could have done it, Chancellor, but you took responsibility. Did you think about that, too, that at this moment, if there is no responsibility, but if it's under your signature, it's like a green light for people? Rather, it may seem to many to be dealing with influence. What have you meant in this context that if it were the chancellor's, the chancellor would have been guilty, there would have been an internal procedure, but if the minister himself signed, would it seem like a trade in influence?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U291	This certainly is not a trade in influence according to any criteria. I really wonder if politicians really are those who want to direct responsibility to officials. What would have changed if this contract had been signed by the Chancellor? Would basically have been something different? Yes, you couldn't have mistrusted the chancellor, but the misdemeanor procedure would have been exactly the same for the chancellor, so at least I was assured. And it is also understandable that this would have been the case. I am not going to evade responsibility in any way to direct it to the officials. It was the government's decision to get these rapid tests, a lot of money. And we knew that the form of procurement prescribed by law had not been used in the past. I still consider it very reasonable, as Mr Aab said, that he himself decided to sign these contracts, which were done as a matter of urgency. I think that makes sense. We are here to make decisions and, if necessary, to take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U292	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U293	Thank you! Here before I got my ear, you were talking about paying the fine. I don't know if you've already made any agreements here to start a crime of insanity, and it's already a misdemeanor, but at least that's what it looked like. But I wanted to talk about the fact that the government led by Kaja Kallas has caught the eye by twisting the law. There has been a violation of the Constitution, for example, and the Law on Law Enforcement, and now there is a breach of the Public Procurement Act. I have a question that if, now, during the forced vaccination imposed by Kaja Kallas' government, the troops, the police, the nurses of hospitals, the teachers, and now they also lost their income, if they would now like to go to the store to eat, because they have no money, and as you said earlier, they are acting in the interests of the children, then looking at the pattern of behaviour of you and the members of the Reform Party government, can they go to the store in peace, take it, because it is in the interests of the children, it is a special situation that they should not be afraid that they will be held accountable for the theft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U294	Thank you. Firstly, we took advantage of the possibility provided by law to carry out this procurement. It is in law as an option in exceptional circumstances, in urgent cases one way to conduct a procurement, it was not an offence. The Ministry of Finance, in its inspection report today, also says that it was justified at this point. And right now, there is a misdemeanour procedure for me in the execution of the second procurement and the expansion of the second procurement. The procedure is ongoing, but I do not have a fine imposed because the procedure is ongoing. I have been told that if the misdemeanor procedure ends with a conviction, it is possible to impose a fine. And a fine can be imposed for both wrongdoings. And when that fine is imposed on me, I said, I will, of course, pay for that fine. As you know very well, your previous statement to the Public Prosecutor's Office was answered that there were no reasons to see why an investigation could be initiated. You filed a new application and, as far as I know, it's not just in my mailbox, it's not reached the decision of the DA's office. If the DA's office decides to initiate an investigation against me, on the same day, I'm going to file a resignation with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U295	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honourable Minister! Listening to all of this, and having read all of this before, I have the impression that in reality your ministry took over the omissions of the Minister of Social Affairs, the previous Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige. I haven't heard or seen anyone discussing it anywhere. You had to solve questions very quickly, and knowing that testing was actually a key issue. In England, for example, each person receives eight free tests a week, let alone a school student, to prevent the spread of infection. But my question is, how about now? How do we go now? We're starting to have a situation growing from July, we really don't know what our situation is now, just after the sewage. What's coming to schools? I hope that now the Ministry of Social Affairs, with its hundreds of officials and agencies, will not only be involved in bringing institutions together, but will also be able to solve problems that do not need to be solved, and then there will be no such issues. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U297	Thank you for your question. I am absolutely certain that the Ministry of Social Affairs certainly acted on its best knowledge and performance. Their primary aim was to keep hospitals as low as possible so that hospitals would not break down. Their main aim was not to keep schools open, and therefore their motivation to acquire these tests was significantly lower than ours, but in the perspective of the future, I am very happy to say that we now have very many tests. As a result of a well-designed procurement by the State Support Services Centre, we have enough others to be prepared that when new waves come and we have to start testing in schools again, school families are ready for these tests and the Ministry of Education and Research can deal with the content of education rather than order medical supplies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U298	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U299	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In that, you are right that regardless of who signs the treaty, the leader is still responsible and the minister is responsible. But I hope you will agree that if decisions and actions later require long explanations to prove that they were necessary and correct, this is not always a sign of a high-quality decision. Here's my question. In the current situation, where we have the formation of a government, we could say the government crisis, some say that the constitutional crisis is the war in Ukraine, we need to support Ukraine, we need to deal with Ukrainian refugees, is what will result in this procurement, will help the functioning of the government and the state, or has it proved to be such an unwanted consequence and a distraction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U300	Thank you. I am absolutely certain and convinced that these tests had a very important positive effect in keeping society open, in keeping it safe. This is also a sign that really very many representative organisations in the field of education have publicly expressed support for the decision that we quickly got tests in schools and, thanks to this, very many children were able to continue their education in a calm manner. Similarly, he really contributed significantly to the reduction in the spread of the virus in society, and it has a very significant material impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U301	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U302	Thank you, good manager. Good performer! I'm gonna ask you again, I didn't get a direct answer last time. What about the chancellor? Did the chancellor tell you, orally or in writing, that he would not sign this treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U303	Thank you. The Chancellor coordinated this agreement before me without comment, without warning that if this treaty was signed, the Minister would somehow break the law. No, I said it very clearly, and I say it once again, it was a common understanding within our team that it needed to be done, and, as we know, the law also gave us and gives us this opportunity, and today experts have also assessed that it was right and right in terms of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U304	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U305	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's been a long story that there has been no violation of the law. I have a little misunderstanding that there has been a misdemeanor procedure. Will misdemeanor proceedings be opened even if the law has not been broken at all or if there is no danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U306	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I have repeatedly told you here in this three-hour period, not hiding anything, that yes, there has been a misdemeanour procedure to investigate two episodes: the procedure for conducting the second procurement, where offers were sent to 17 companies, and the extension of the framework agreement, where we were based on the written recommendation of the State Support Services Centre that the situation could be resolved in this way. Whether we did not act in accordance with the law is the result of a misdemeanor procedure. If we acted in any way contrary to the law, at least according to the prosecutors of the Ministry of Finance, this is new knowledge. We made our own decisions, knowing that the law provided for these possibilities, and we estimated that the situation would allow these points to be used in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U307	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for your previous answer. I agree that there were practical benefits, but my question was that, in the case of decisions, we often see, in addition to the results, the consequences that we did not want or did not plan. Today there has been much talk in this Chamber about dignity and political culture and we often compare ourselves with the Nordic countries. I think we all, or most of us, hopefully know the story of the Swedish Minister and Pantyhose. There was a lot smaller. But I'd ask you that. You repeatedly referred to the fact that the government did not clearly say that there had to be several bidders and that there were problems in another area of administration. It's like an indirect clue to the Prime Minister and the general functioning of the government. Did I misunderstand, or was that your intention?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U309	Thank you. First of all, I have not benefited personally from this fast-test procurement or procurement, I have not bought a pair of tights for it, I have bought my tights and all the other personal belongings for my earned salary. And secondly, these tests had a very positive effect, 170000 children could go to contact training. Like I said, the infection rate R fell below one 18 days after testing. In all counties there was a decline, in all age groups there was a decline. We saw that the previous growth trend of infection had clearly turned into a decline. The head of the scientific council at the time also estimated that rapid testing had been successful. So I am absolutely certain that society in general won a great deal from this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U310	Good Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U311	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U312	Now we're opening negotiations. Mr Mihkelson has first asked for the floor on behalf of the middle group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Good gymnastics and transmission monitors! In this Chamber, a colleague from the Reform Party said something about the sauce, and now we have been listening to this sauce for quite several hours, and this sauce was available in almost every reply that the people in the Chamber asked for. Much has been said about the actions of the Minister of Education lately. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to focus on the principle of equal treatment. A number of examples can be found in Estonia when the courts grind for many years on behalf of tens and hundreds of euros. We all know of cases where enormous amounts of energy and taxpayers' money were spent on a nine-euro bill procedure, people's lives were destroyed. While Liina Kersna was on the remote, in fact, the title "Kajar Lember's hairdresser made it to the end in six years" appeared in Postimees. In the case of Minister of Education Liina Kersna, we are talking about millions of euros. Public procurement by telephone was even subject to advance payment. This is outrageous. The Ministry of Finance has initiated a misdemeanour procedure against Liina Kersna, but the Centre Party Group considers that this is absolutely not enough. Strangely, the DA's office didn't see a problem in Liina Kersna's operation. The reason that we are absolutely not convinced by the signs of the crime is that there is no evidence of the crime. It is no surprise that the Minister's justification for his actions and scrupulously holds on to his place. We can see the same behaviour with the Prime Minister, but this is the style of the Reform Party. Liina Kersna has also been judged by attorney-at-law Leon Glikman, who has said that the corona crisis may have led to hasty action in obtaining rapid tests, but that there is no equality between speed and inefficiencies. There are many fast-track test providers on the Estonian market and it remains unclear why the Ministry could not include them in a copy of the e-mail when asking for a tender. In addition to the Minister's favourite company, the questioning of tenders from its competitors with the same time limit would in no way have led to an extension of the tendering procedure. Minister Kersna's argument that the fast-track test was a success story because schools were able to keep open is absolutely not convincing, as taking several offers would not have closed schools. Selfdiagnostics OÜ was paid 2.5 euros by the state for the test, for example Medivar OÜ asked only 1.5 euros. Saving public money wouldn't have ruled out a success story. The success story of the Estonian state cannot be to throw away millions of euros of taxpayers' money. We are known for our smart and transparent solutions, and we expect the same attitude from the Minister. Liina Kersnal now has the opportunity to demonstrate state-manship and to report on taking responsibility to the Riigikogu and resigning from the Minister's office. If that does not happen, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support a motion of distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U314	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Martin Helme, please! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U315	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen. I have to admit that I have not grown as high in time as I have in this debate today. So much impudence for lying, wrestling, talking black to white, blaming others and defending themselves for things that should have been known and probably not to be done, has not been seen long, long and long in this hall. And for this mass, repeated, determined lie alone, the minister should be scolded by his office so that he will never return to the government again. But what do we expect from the Reform Party? The Reform Party is a party of criminals, a corrupt party from the beginning, built up from all its DNA in such a way that state power is necessary to transfer taxpayers' money to their own. We all know that, with this we are almost accustomed and, under this leadership, we are taking long and long steps towards the banana republic. I am, of course, more disappointed that we do not see any ambassadors of the Fatherland here today, although in the past the word has been taken very clearly on this subject, and it has been repeatedly said that this is not the case, that is not the case. We have the chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, who deals with all things in the world, but he doesn't care about the subject today. And we do not see the social democrats here today, whose high-profile member Riina Sikkut is the chairman of the Special Committee on Corruption. Their appearance in a situation where they were very critical a few weeks ago, but now sitting at the negotiating table with the Reform Party, is also depressing, causing high blood pressure. It turns out that in Estonia, theft and corruption are acceptable if it is committed by the party with which you hope to form a coalition. We had a series of lies during this debate. The first and most serious lie that otherwise schools would not have been able to stay open unless such a non-procuremented purchase had been made. Of course you would! This is a complete lie. No other bidder was or was known. You were aware that the Ministry had previously bought from other companies and cheaper, with very little difference in the same period of time, the offers came, cheaper and better. There was already a very diligent and very competitive rapid test market in Estonia last year. Different companies, dozens of companies were working on it, they had stocks, they had tools to do it all. The rumor that there was nothing else left is just a brazen lie. But there is another group that is jumping, in addition to the socialists and the Fatherland, and this is the Estonian media, who simply do not care about the topic, who does not care about corruption in Estonia, if it is done by the right party, the only party that has proposed the Prime Minister. In the case of this only possible Prime Minister's proposal, the only possible Prime Minister's party, this is, of course, another interesting issue, and this has been confirmed to us again today by the Minister from the remote, and this has been confirmed by Kaja Kallas himself. Kaja Kallas and Liina Kersna had agreed to do so. Now, in this banana republic, we live that if a minister goes to the Prime Minister and says that I now intend to commit 5-6 million to a company indirectly linked to the Reform Party, in violation of the taxpayer's procurement law, if you agree with the Prime Minister, then the law could be violated in Estonia. This is the rule of law we have in Estonia! Being equal to the law, the fact that members of the government have a duty to comply with the law, it will cease to function if you agree with Kaja Kallas that it may be different. Such a great country. And this beautiful question that Liina Kersna said: but no one has shown us how we would have achieved the same result if we had done it differently. Of course, if you had done otherwise, if you had respected the law on public procurement, you wouldn't have been able to carry these millions. Of course, the same result could not have been achieved. There could not have been, simply there would not have been a breach of the law, there would not have been a milking of taxpayers, there would not have been a crossing of the most basic principles of public procurement. Of course you wouldn't have if you'd done it differently. You couldn't have done all that. I do not know, from what I am listening to the Minister's speech here again today, and I wonder, I do not know which more is, whether the Minister is simply completely incompetent and does not understand what is going on in his administration, how money is being moved, what is the law, how it is being implemented, what does not understand the most basic procurement process, does not understand, nothing does understand. Or maybe he's a completely indefensible cynical corruptant who's been carrying his own people, people who have been with the delegation of the Taavi Clothes abroad, whose wife has been a member of the Reform Party for nine years. He's just carrying money. But maybe there are both. In addition to that, a completely indefensible liar. Whatever one of these three things is, or if they're all three at once, such a person can't continue serving as ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U316	Signe Kivi on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U317	Thank you. Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U318	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U319	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I admit that one of the most appalling moments in the Chamber of Riigikogu was on the evening of 1 June, when this draft law on early childhood education and care was voted down in the Chamber by 21 Central Party and 19 EKRE Members at first reading. And not just voted, but then stood up and applauded for the joy that the members of the Riigikogu were able to humiliate the Estonian state, because this is something other than humiliating and undermining the Estonian language, which in 2022, the 31st re-independence of the Estonian state, wanted to introduce a transition to education in the Estonian language. And this bill had been approved by ministers in the government, including the Ministers of the Centre Party. Today's motion of distrust is clearly a retaliation for strong initiatives in the transition to education in Estonian. Yes, the Centre Party, by voting against the bill, showed its mindset, which has been followed more secretly, albeit more openly, for many years and in relation to various draft laws concerning Estonian language and education. No national education! No deadlines! Not even the word "transition"! We remember this opposition during the discussion on "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035." No school leaders' fixed-term contracts or their competence accreditation! So, yes, to the parallel school system and to the clandestine school leaders! Let the Russian spirit and language be preserved! We're gonna need the election. The draft law on early childhood education and care would have provided that in five years' time, in fact only in 2027, the language of kindergarten education is Estonian from the age of three. We wanted to eliminate the possibility that a kindergarten manager could establish a hundred percent of the language of instruction in groups other than the official language that the current law allows and which many local authorities have used. This has been a vicious circle for young people with other native languages, because the significant difference between students in Estonian and Russian, as well as in language immersion schools, lies in the poorer learning outcomes of Russian-speaking learners, as confirmed by the results of the PISA tests. When speaking about education in Estonian, problems have always been oppressed: no money, no teachers, no textbooks. Yeah, money is important, and teachers are important. Laws are also important, but if there is no willingness to learn and there is no support for it in educational policy decisions, neither money nor programmes will help. Unfortunately, this will and need has been suffocated by many politicians both in local councils and in the Riigikogu for years. At the same time, the budget for the integration plan in 2014‐2020 has been, what do you think, how much? EUR 68 million. Results? I now ask you, EKRE's bold blue-black-white ambassadors, which you rejoiced about on 1 June. Agreed, there was a point in the draft concerning the language of instruction, which rightly raised disputes, but which we could certainly have clarified with the amendments proposed by the Commission and the political groups. But no, you voted against because it was necessary to oppose the Minister. It was a political vote, not a substantive vote and a confrontation. I quote your election programme: we transfer Estonia's education system to education in Estonian and we promote dignity, spirituality, ethics, Estonian understanding of the world. Well, of course, let's do it! I will repeat here only a few of the initiatives that Liina Kersna has taken under the leadership of the Ministry. First of all, in 10 months an action plan for education in Estonian was drawn up with the help of experts until 2035. This is the first document on this subject. Just as a reminder: in the past seven years and four months, the Minister of Education of the Centre Party could not or did not want to complete such a document. Secondly, within a hundred days, a support measure was developed for Estonian-language schools, where at least 10% of children with a native language different from the Estonian language were studied. Twenty-five of the 15 local governments received support from 23 schools. Thirdly, during the period of Liina Kersna's ministry, sectoral supervision has been developed to promote the quality of education in Estonian consciously and essentially. Fourthly, the coordination circle has a regulation on the harmonisation of teacher qualifications and language requirements, which sets language requirements for teachers in addition to qualifications requirements. Fifthly, 28 additional places have been ordered from Narva College for EUR 450000 as the second language of Estonian to expand teacher education. This list could be continued. In conclusion, contrary to mistrust claims, the Ministry has extended the pilot project "+1 teacher," some of which goes to 190 kindergartens and schools. The reasons given by the sinks for obtaining rapid tests shall not be taken into account. They have been reported by the Minister on several occasions. It was through rapid tests that the Minister kept the schools as open as possible during this school year that he could be commended, not distrusted. Yes, the years of underfunding in higher education cannot be solved with the mistrust of the Minister. This requires a holistic analysis and change in today's so-called free-of-charge, which, by the way, is not free of charge for the state in the higher education system. The Reform Party recognises and supports Minister Liina Kersna. I repeat: today's mistrust is an act of revenge and it is actually clear to both the public and the education sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U320	There are no further requests to speak. So I will close the negotiations and start preparing the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the vote, I would like to remind you that the Minister has been distrusted when the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of publishing censure, which means 51 votes or more. Therefore, I shall vote on the publication of censure by the Minister of Education and Science, Liina Kersna. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-06-16_U321	39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of expressing confidence, 33 members of the Riigikogu opposed, so the Riigikogu did not express distrust of the Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of today's sitting. Have a good day at work!
