ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 15th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please! Ivar? [[A voice from the hall.]] Bills, inquiries. Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Penal Register Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws. [[Summing in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]] The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Farm Animal Breeding Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Fifthly, the draft Act supplementing § 10 of the Employment Contracts Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and related laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. All drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U4	82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Before we go to the agenda, the following information is available. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic has committed its drafts to 605, 606, 607 and 608 trust issues and asks them to discuss them at the meeting on Wednesday 18 May, the order of their discussion on Wednesday is as follows: 8th agenda item, 605 SE, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and other laws; 9th item, 606 SE, the draft law amending the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Act; 10th item, 607 SE, the draft law amending the VAT Act; 11th item, 608 SE, the draft law amending the State's supplementary budget for 2022. With these amendments, I shall put this agenda to the vote. Kalle Grünthal, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U5	Thank you! Clearly, when it comes to trust... It was, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U6	I'm sorry! There's too much noise in the hall. Please ask again!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U7	Obviously, it was. Let me get this straight. It's a matter of trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U8	Yeah. The Government of the Republic has bound drafts to 605, 606, 607 and 608 trust issues and is asking them to discuss them at the meeting on Wednesday 18 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U9	Yes, I understood that, but the question is that, pursuant to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Government must submit a statement to the Chairman of the Riigikogu in writing. Perhaps you will read it in writing so that we can know that such a statement has come in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U10	Thank you. On the form of the Government of the Republic, the addressee of the Board of the Riigikogu, 16 May 2022. [[In the diner.]] Do you have a procedure? [[A voice from the hall.]] It's come at 2:38. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Linking the adoption of the draft act to the question of trust. The Government of the Republic is bound by the question of trust in the adoption of the following draft laws before the second reading of these drafts in the Riigikogu. This concerns 605 SEs, 606 SEs, 607 SEs and 608 SEs. This decision was made by the Government of the Republic at today's meeting on 16 May. The Government of the Republic requests that the second reading and adoption of the above draft law be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 18 May 2022. This letter has come, Mr. Grünthal. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U11	Thank you, good Chairman! If I look at this plan on our tables, we've got a 605 SE scheduled for the last point on Thursday. Is it such a customary practice that you can score points with a party on Wednesday and Thursday and say that we have trust issues? Does this extend to answering questions, for example, and does my question of trust also fall under the question of trust?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U12	Thank you. Yes, this proposal, which the Government of the Republic has made, really also concerns draft 605, which is currently on this yellow agenda as the last item on Thursday. It's a request that it be Wednesday. And as I read earlier, it is the eighth item on Wednesday. This question of trust does not extend to enquiries. Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U13	Thank you, manager. I have this question procedurally that there are currently four drafts with a vote of confidence, but whether we can also put the whole session to a vote of confidence, all those drafts that come or the [their] week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U14	Thank you. Well, I don't know, it's probably a very theoretical question of whether all the drafts of the whole session can be linked to trust. This will has not been expressed by the government today. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U15	Thank you, good Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U16	I'm so sorry, Mr. Kruusimäe. Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. It's really loud. Thank you. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U17	Thank you, good Chairman! After, let's say, the 605 SE is going to have a vote and then there's 606 and then there's a vote. Or is the vote taking place so that we process the four drafts and then we have one vote? Because let's imagine if, for example, the coalition could say that we got a 400% trust because four went through. Or how are we going to deal with this support now if something doesn't work? Or it's like the first round, the second round... that here the result was divided so that 60% trusted and 39% didn't trust. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Explain this, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U18	Thank you. In total, there are four votes of confidence, for each draft. The percentage of you distributing it, I think, is the question of how much everyone's interpretation is against, how much in favour, but there are four different votes. Procedural question, Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U19	Thank you. In order to prevent these future issues, perhaps it would be possible to take a break and print out this agenda in the right form. Then he will be present in person and there will be no need to answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U20	Yeah, I'm sure we'll print it out when the agenda is confirmed. I hope that's a good enough answer. You don't have it on your desk right now, but I've read what the Wednesday agenda would be like. A procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U21	Good manager! [[Voices in the hall.]] I can wait that long. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Good manager! As I understand it, all the drafts submitted by the government can also be put to a vote of confidence. Let me get this straight. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U22	Thank you. I didn't get it right. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U23	Thank you, good Chairman! My question is, how are we supposed to act now? If the 605 SE fails to pass this trust [vote], means that there will be no trust in the government, will the government disband or will it be with this clause that they will still be together until the end of the Wednesday session? And how many times can they disperse? Is it possible to disperse three or four times, or in the meantime, we will have Alar again and say, "Get the government back together now, there are two more drafts to deal with?" [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How's it coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U24	Thank you. If it is proposed to link it to a question of trust and if we take your version of it so as not to trust it, § 137 (8) of the Act also says that if the Riigikogu does not adopt the draft relating to the matter of trust, the President of the Riigikogu will immediately inform the President of the Republic. And that means that that's the end of the government. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Please tell me the moment this agenda gets here on our desk, so that these unsavory things can go away. As I understand it, the statement you read here to my first question [in reply] has been on your desk long enough, because otherwise you couldn't have done it. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to know. Perhaps there could also be an overview of which to vote in favour, whether to change the agenda, change it or not. As I understand it now, here's the Thursday agenda item jumping on somewhere Wednesday instead. We should have a clear picture of what agenda we have here in the week.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U26	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for silence in the hall one more time. Thank you. The third agenda item on Thursday, which is currently distributed on the yellow pages, really brings this amendment to the Wednesday agenda and becomes the eighth agenda item. This request from the government, as I read to you, came a little more than twenty minutes before 3:00. If we vote on the agenda, the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will print out the new agenda on which we are working as soon as possible. I hope this is acceptable to all of us. Procedural question, Aivar Chef, please! I'm sorry, I'm asking for silence in the hall. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U27	Thank you. Mr President, you certainly have much more experience than I do. I do not know that four votes of confidence have been taken in a row. If the first trust doesn't work and the government is distrusted, what's the next point? If the government is trusted in the next item, will the government be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U28	I don't think so. A procedural question, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U29	Thank you, good Chairman! I have such a procedural question, or perhaps giving input to the board, so that we can not link these 35 reviews of strategy to the same thing? If there is trust, let's say all these strategies are [accepted]. As we can see, nor do the waitresses like them themselves, they don't want to come here, they get sick sometimes, and they don't come up with more than one A4 text in that period. One might think that all these reviews of the strategy have been dealt with at the same time. Do we have a chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U30	Thank you, that is a very interesting question! I'm gonna answer the first one on a feeling: no, I'm not. Because in the case of the various strategies of "Estonia 2035" that ministers report here in the Riigikogu, we will not take a decision at the end of the debate. So I can't even tell you what to do with trust. But if an in-depth analysis is needed on whether they can be legally linked to trust, then it can be done. But my first feeling is that I can't. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 137 (2) of our Home and Working Procedures Act states that the Government shall draw up the documents mentioned in subsections 101, 102 and 103 of this Act. We haven't seen these documents yet. When are they gonna be here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U32	Thank you. As far as I know, this obligation really does exist and they must reach this Riigikogu tonight, so let us hope they do. Procedural question, Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Several colleagues have already asked more or less the same question, but they haven't got a very clear answer, so I'll try it. In the event that the Riigikogu does not trust the government in the vote of confidence, will there be any change in the agenda after all subsequent items?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U34	Thank you. I think there will be a change in this situation if, as you say, there is no trust in the first and second agenda items relating to trust. Clearly, then the political situation has changed. A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U35	Thank you, Mr President. I think that we should clarify one thing and there should also be an explanatory comment on the agenda. Linking drafts to the question of trust is, in fact, a very important step. This has actually happened before. But now the situation is that the government has bound a bunch of drafts with confidence and I would ask the President of the sitting to explain. If the first draft fails and the government has lost confidence and resigned, how will the next draft be dealt with when that trust no longer exists? Will Parliament no longer vote on these drafts and the requirement for a confidence format disappear? Because you can't test trust for the second time when trust has already been lost. In this case, will these three drafts fall out of the working week agenda or not? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U36	Thank you. My explanation is this: then the political balance between the coalition and the opposition has changed in the country. Can the next, say, second, third or fourth, be reconnected with trust and then say that now the government's trust was restored? My interpretation is that you can't. And then it's not possible to deal with the trust issue. Kalle Grünthal, please! It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U37	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have this vague idea of what this is all about. First of all, there is the linking of the draft with the issue of mistrust, on which the government is making a corresponding statement, which you have also read here today. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] When I asked you when the documents mentioned in subsections 101, 102, 103 of this Act that the Government of the Republic has drawn up would be received, you said, well, you were quiet for a long time, you said tonight, didn't you? When it's nighttime, it's kind of a vague thing. But the question is that linking this to mistrust requires, at least, that the day after that, this is done in principle. And now, if we look at the deadlines and the times when these documents will be received here, then it could only happen on Thursday. How can we confirm the agenda if we do not have complete documentation on this issue? And besides, I don't think it makes any sense that a statement is thrown on the table first, but other mandatory documents are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U38	Thank you. If they arrive on Thursday, we really cannot link these four issues with confidence on Wednesday. I will now start preparing this vote. Yes, please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U39	I have a proposal, the Estonian Conservative People's Party...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U40	I'm asking you to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U41	... by, even two proposals...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U42	Make two suggestions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U43	...in one set.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U44	Is it like a cluster proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U45	Because this government proposal has now created such a huge furore and confusion here, and it is completely unprecedented that three laws will be put into distrust...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U46	Four!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U47	... even four laws at a time, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I propose that these drafts be removed from the weekly agenda. And the second proposal a little proactively: if you had to announce the vote on the agenda, I would ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U48	Thank you. I hope that I am not wrong now, Mr Põljaas, but if the question of trust is put to the vote, then the opportunity to propose to the political groups that they should be removed from the agenda does not exist. I accept the second proposal, I support it. This ten-minute break will definitely come when we get there. A procedural question, Erkki, Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U49	Thank you. Since I am also one hundred percent not sure exactly how this is provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act, I will say, just in case, that the Reform Party Group does not agree with the proposal of this Group of Henn Põllea and the EKRE Group to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U50	Thank you. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U51	Thank you! However, I still did not receive the answer to my question that when a statement has been received from the Government of the Republic, the documents mentioned in § 101, 102 and 103 of the Home and Working Procedures Act have not been received here so that we can see what is happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U52	Thank you. There is no obligation to present them simultaneously. And like I said, they have to be here tonight. I now announce the requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party before the vote. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U53	Dear colleagues, the requested break of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the 15th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu with the amendments previously mentioned. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U54	The agenda was supported by 54 abstentions, 22 abstentions and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U55	Now we will begin the processing of today's agenda items on Monday, 16 May. First of all, the first item on the agenda is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urmas Reinsalu, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Heiki Hepneri, Üllar Saaremäe, Raivo Tamme, Aivar Koka, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa and Priit Sibula on 22 March 2022 concerning the military defence of the Estonian state, bearing the number 126 and the inquiry corresponds to the request of the Minister of Defence Kalle Laane. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Heiki Hepner, to introduce the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, on 22 March this year, the Isamaa Group reported an inquiry into the military defence of the Estonian state. The question in itself is relatively short, there is only one question: 'In connection with the military crisis in Europe, in accordance with the military advice at your disposal, please indicate what military capabilities are needed to develop in full, immediately, in order to protect Estonia from the military attack by Russia and what is their estimated cost?' The question is specific and short, but the content is quite long and deep on this issue. And it is understandable that the Riigikogu cannot be a second- or third-class player in defence matters either, but the main strategic directions in our defence are also set in this hall. On the other hand, given the specificity of this area, as we pointed out in our own inquiry, if it contains state secrets, it is quite clear that it is not possible to deal with state secrets in a public debate in this Chamber. Then this should be done according to the law area governing state secrets, i.e. we have specific premises where then the competent and authorised members of the Riigikogu would be able to access this information. So really, on the one hand, the Riigikogu plays a very important role in the strategic management of our national defence, on the other hand, these particularities also need to be taken into account. When I said that there is actually a very deep content behind this one question, it is true that we also know that there is a state budget in which some EUR 8 million additional expenditure is planned. [These are related], you can still say directly, the security crisis, the war, the brutal aggression, which now became a new colour this February 24, but which started eight years ago, 2014. In this security crisis, the Government of the Republic has foreseen EUR 800 million in funds, of which EUR 15 million are specifically linked to defence and the enhancement of our military capabilities. So here too, ladies and gentlemen, it is actually very clear why we have to ask and why we also have to discuss here whether we are making sufficient efforts to protect our country. It is quite clear that the strategic objective of our defence must be that we do not engage in the regaining of lost areas, but that we must build our defence so that we face the enemy in the first few metres and we do not, in essence, lose one square metre of land from our country, which we should then win back. After all, we have seen today in the case of the Ukrainian war that their return is at very, very high and expensive cost, both in life and in thief and money. And indeed, we have discussed, also in the Committee on National Defence, a certain picture of what we need from air protection, armoured capabilities and so on, and so on, and so on. And we also have national defence experts who have given advice and input here. And the last one, now to the end. Indeed, it is also important for us to understand the capacity of our Defence Forces and our National Defence Investment Centre to make use of the funds allocated. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U57	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Defence of the Riigikogu's Chair Kalle Laaneti to answer the question, which bears 126. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U58	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear members of the Riigikogu, heirs! Absolutely, state defence, security is the country's most important priority. As you pointed out in your presentation, Good Heiki, you gave the opportunity to respond at the level of secret [information] and we did so in writing, we sent [reply] to the Riigikogu. I don't know if it's gotten to you, but we did. And this public section is coming right now, I'm going to report it. I thank you for your question. We all know that the transatlantic security situation has fundamentally changed. Russia's war in Ukraine and threats against NATO's allies demonstrate that military aggression against NATO cannot be ruled out. It must be said that the question asked about what military capabilities are needed to protect Estonia has two important sides. We must ensure that developments in the future shaping of NATO's defence stance support the swift and smooth implementation of the respective defence plans by the allies, so that it is guaranteed and practiced by the forces. NATO Heads of State and Government have agreed that Russia's long-term threat calls for a more decisive strengthening of NATO's collective defence with an emphasis on the Baltic States and NATO's eastern wing. NATO has already more than doubled its military presence in Estonia and the Baltic States. There are almost 2,000 allied soldiers in Tapa and Ämar today. These decisions have been timely and necessary, but Russia's aggressiveness and military threat require more action from both Estonia and the allies. Therefore, we need to move from the current disincentive to a strengthened defence stance. This could convince Russia that any military attack on NATO is destined to fail at the first moment. Estonia has proposed to the allies that a division-size unit be set up in Estonia in the NATO chain of governance, which would include both Estonia's own and the allied units located in Estonia, including Great Britain, France, Denmark, and, of course, in the highest readiness assigned here during the crisis. The Estonian Government is ready to invest in further development of allies-related infrastructure, both individually and together with allies. Consultations between the allies will continue from April to June and will have to culminate at the NATO Summit in Madrid on 29.30. June. This certainly requires the members of our government, not only the Minister of Defence, but also, above all, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also, of course, other ministers, to carry out serious explaining work among our allies. Both myself and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have planned very close foreign visits to our allies to explain our new concept and defence attitude to them. As the Prime Minister has said in the media, we are moving in the right direction as we approach the NATO Summit, but we have not yet arrived. The second dimension must be strengthened by Estonia's independent defence capabilities. The Government of the Republic has already allocated additional funds to defence in Europe twice this year due to a serious deterioration in the security situation. The realisation of these reinforcements will provide solutions to the most critical shortcomings. The 340-million-dollar allocation made in January is mainly related to ammunition, the importance of which cannot be overestimated. With this decision, we were also one of the first countries to allocate additional extraordinary resources to military defence in Europe. With additional resources, we supplement ammunition supplies more or less across the entire nomenclature and calibre used in the armed forces. The National Defence Investment Centre has already signed all relevant contracts within this amount. Ammunition must have been delivered by 2025, but the main deliveries are planned to be 85 million euros by 2023 and 188 million euros by 2024, which is the fastest possible time frame in today's market conditions. In March, a further 476 million euros were allocated to the Ministry of Defence's administration as part of the strengthening package of Estonian military defence. The strengthening package was drawn up on the basis of the assumption that Estonia's defence is part of NATO's plans and took into account the military advice of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the first experiences and lessons learned from the war in Ukraine. The additional criterion was that the acquiree must bring about an immediate increase in military capabilities, that is, supplies must arrive preferably within two years, at the latest within three years, and that their deployment must be immediate for the Defence Forces and the Defence League, i.e. does not require long training. Thus, the decisions of the Government of the Republic add to the funds for six areas: the introduction of short-range anti-aircraft systems, upgrading of anti-tank capabilities, improving the fire performance, increasing situational awareness, building additional infrastructure for the reception of allies and creating more opportunities for volunteers to participate in land protection in the direction of the Defence League. This package guarantees the brigades' ability to destroy more opponents than today, and the destruction of the opponent's first attack cell will be considerably easier. The units of the opponent who has arrived on Estonian territory will be under constant very dangerous fire. In the dark, the enemy can be destroyed and demoralized much more than today. The conduct of the anti-aircraft and sea shuttle will have catastrophic consequences for the enemy. The second echelon of the opponent, infrastructure management, fire support and rear would be threatened from 50 to 90 kilometres. In addition, the Government of the Republic has taken a fundamental course towards developing mid-earth air support by 2025 at the latest. The Ministry of Defence shall hold the necessary consultations with the Allies and draw up at the latest a plan for the acquisition and execution of the respective capabilities. The final decisions necessary for the development of mid-earth anti-aircraft capabilities, including funding and procurement time frame, will be taken during the preparation of the national budget strategy 2023.2026 and will start in August. The specific financial cost depends on the number of systems and capabilities, including ballistic missile capabilities. In addition to the above capabilities, there are undoubtedly areas in which existing military capabilities can be strengthened, developed, or created. These options are highly dependent on additional funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U59	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, With Russia's aggression in Ukraine, Sweden and Finland are joining NATO. This is very important in the context of the security of the entire alliance. At the same time, we know that discussions on the military mobility programme at European level, before the war or a new aggression, reached a rather difficult situation where there was always something more important to do than actually focus on how to link Central Europe to the North and vice versa. Has this military mobility programme, which is politically general and public, actually received any additional attention so that we can move along the roads and cross bridges with heavy equipment? We know that the Rail Baltic project has been extended for five years. What's the situation with that, would you like to mark it in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U61	Thank you. This is a very good and important question in the view that when we talk about the rapid movement of troops, this movement depends on how good the road we have, how good the train connection is, how good the air or sea connection is to move quickly from point A to point B. And I am pleased to say that a decision has been made in the Commission that Estonia will receive 31 million euros at the moment in order to really improve certain bottlenecks. Of course, this is not enough, but at least a certain first step has been taken. After all, we both know that the volume that was actually asked for in the budget was several times smaller. I believe that now, in the European Union's debates, it will have a bigger and much more priority place than it was in the meantime when the budget was reduced. Because we understand that it is extremely difficult to maintain sufficient capacity in all countries even during peacetime. This is a very serious cost to different countries. One solution could be what we propose, that we have a command element for controlling division-size units, but we basically have the execution of units, we have a plan and the rapid delivery of troops, and the assumption is that we can really do it quickly. The Military Mobility program, or military mobility program, is certainly what contributes to this. Yeah, we're not moving as fast as we'd expect, but we're moving on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U62	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U63	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, How do you rate the money allocated to our Defence Forces or also to the National Defence Investment Centre's capacity to use it? Because our military experts, including the Commander of the Defence Forces, have said that we would need at least EUR 2 billion in the coming years, which is the minimum to increase our defence capabilities. Right now, we're gonna miss this money a lot. And every day you've been delayed will cost you extra, because everything will be more expensive. Not only this standard price, let us say, the consumer price index and inflation, but also that we see what is happening in the world and that demand is growing. If we do not decide today, we will decide tomorrow, then we will definitely pay more. How do you measure our ability? Is that enough or isn't enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U64	Thank you for that question. Indeed, the world's military industries are working to fill the gaps that have been released in Ukraine. Today there is a serious shortage, the military industries cannot produce as much as they really need. We are saying that most countries have increased their defence budgets strongly. Not to mention that the ammunition and weaponry that have been sent to Ukraine must also be replaced by different countries. And filling these holes, I think, takes almost a decade, because, as we know, putting the entire military industry into operation is a year-long job. Well, it's gonna take time to bake a loaf of bread, but it's gonna take the weapons industry a lot more time. As far as the capabilities of our Defence Forces and the National Defence Investment Centre are concerned, there are always limits. We will get input from the Defence Forces, or what kind of weapons systems we need, but everything that concerns this acquisition, procurement, contracts, disputes, it's all on the defence investment center today. In fact, what they were going to do with this first package, perhaps to enter into contracts in such a short time, well, I have to admit that I am very surprised in a good way. This volume is very large and they had to make a very serious effort to do so. Not to mention that, since the sums of money are large, the lobbyists are at every door, knocking and saying that their things are the best, and choose, make these choices. Maybe what I'm trying to say? The straight clarity of the people who work there must also be very strong, so as not to go down this road to see, uh, maybe that's really the best thing, but it isn't. We must consider the size of the country, the size of our organisations. We can't fix the whole world with one decision, it's still a step by step. So, in brief, the capacity of the National Centre for Defence Investments has increased greatly, they have a great deal of capacity, but certainly they also have certain limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U65	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U66	Honourable speaker! This is an enormously rapid period of development for the military, with a lot of information coming in, constantly learning lessons. Let's take an area like the use of drones. I am interested in the way in which we ourselves should use these lessons, which are building up very quickly in the country today, because all the time, we should also adjust our activities. The same example of a drone. This is an area that is quite fit for Estonia's development. Lithuania is enthusiastic about the drones of Estonian producers and is trying to buy them. I'll just give you one more example. In Kadrina, we made and packed bullet jackets, and I saw the men who had completely started their knees making their vest one of the best in the world in terms of quality and price. Perhaps we would look around and how to bring all this to the level of the Riigikogu, this feedback.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U67	Thank you. Indeed, innovation and new technologies in the world are the words that actually pass in all areas. If we don't take steps with it, we're gonna miss the train again. This means that we really need to be prepared to move in all areas. Not that we are saying that we have experience and this experience has worked, but that we should look ahead smoothly, how we can contribute to the development of new capabilities in these new circumstances and that our Defence Forces will be able to be a partner here in the same way for those companies that are highly innovative and are engaged in new technologies. It's all a challenge. Not only are we purchasing new weapons systems or ammunition, but this is also a serious part of the challenge. And I dare say that the Estonian Defence Forces are very innovative today. Even if we take a cyber-time service, which is a completely new thing to have a say in this area as well. So I see positive developments in all these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U68	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U69	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Good coalition partner, tell me what capabilities we're going to develop now that the Centre Party is no longer in the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U70	I understand that the Party of the Fatherland has so much security capability, you've been leading the Department of Defense for years, and I'm sure you have a lot of good ideas in your desk drawer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U71	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! I tabled my 24 modest amendments to the budget concerning the Defence League. I also went to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to protect them, but they were not supported. I have a question about what happens after the second reading. I am not such an old fish in this Parliament to know if there will be a third reading at all. Is there anything else you can add to it, or is there something that needs to be resolved from the reserve of the Government of the Republic or otherwise, because these problems with the affairs of the Defence League are up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U73	Thank you for that question. We are in negotiations with the Defence League on how to strengthen the Defence Union as a whole, and this certainly also concerns financial resources and additional labour. We have certain ideas in this regard, and these thoughts we are working with the leadership of the Defence League.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U74	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U75	Thank you. One request from the heirs was that what cannot be spoken about in this Chamber because of state secrets be sent to them in writing with a corresponding stamp, and you said that you did so. But there are 101 of us in this hall and [we] would also be very interested in reading it. If it is not possible to send it to everyone, then we have people here with NATO secret permission and other secret permissions, yes and yes. At least to these members of the Riigikogu [could be sent]. Personally, I would be very interested in reading this material.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U76	As far as I know, this material has arrived in the Riigikogu, but as you know, these materials can be viewed by following certain procedural rules and monitoring. It's the key. It doesn't come into any of your mailboxes. But anyone who has an interest in it will certainly get to know it, because it is not covered by NATO secrecy, but it is simply a state secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U77	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U78	Thank you. We discussed the draft law on family benefits in the Committee on Social Affairs today. The government representative said that it is not as if well thought out of these sources of cover and that, when and how something is going on. And then it was recalled that, at the beginning of the year, the government also made a decision concerning 380 million [EUR] in defence costs without having to discuss it with Parliament. I have the question of how long-term this decision was and when and how it could be realised, this additional acquisition of ammo. This decision also arose outside the RES debate in the government, and it is absolutely adequate and necessary given the state of security. But from what point of view will it be realised? Because the cost of this year was nonexistent, and we know that these are long steps. If we want this to happen, decisions must be made once, money must be booked, and then at some point we will also be able to reach the point that this capacity has really been realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U79	Thank you for that question. And for this first block, ammo should be delivered by 2025 at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U80	Let's move on, just as this order and court requires at the hearing. One question, one oral question. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! My question is based on the question of Leo Kunnas. Indeed, defence and defence are not the place where half of the work can be done. Because when we go into half the work, it means that under certain circumstances we have no ability to resist, and that means that this half of the work is also the cost that has been thrown down. Consequently, does the government understand the very moment that these problems, the financial problems, must be resolved quickly and immediately? You can't do it like we're gonna do it a little bit, because then there's no defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U82	Thank you. I absolutely agree that I can't do half the work. Trends must still be intact. This whole thing is that one part of the decision was that by 2024 we should have 20,000 defence allies trained, guaranteed personal protective equipment, guaranteed weapons. This means that when we talk about training, it requires human resources to train them. As we have been saying before, isn't it, that the world has changed, completely changed, and in the process of this change, organisations must also change. We need to see how we can best achieve our goals. Can't go exactly the way it's been going for maybe the last 25 years or even 30 years. There must also be certain changes in order for us to be able to fulfil our basic tasks and core objectives as well as possible. The simple option is that we don't change anything, but we put in more money. But as we all know, the world has changed. And that means that everything has to change with this world changing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U83	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. First please the Riigikogu Chair, I understand, the representative of the heirs Heiki Hepner. Please! [[Heiki Hepner's asking for more time.]] Yeah, eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, thank you for these answers. Indeed, hopefully we will soon be able to read in this letter those messages that are not appropriate in this large hall because of their national secrets. I admit I haven't been able to take this opportunity yet, but I believe I will, and I will. Indeed, it is very right that half the work in national defence does not go very far. This effect will be less than the costs actually incurred. And the very core of increasing the military capabilities of national defence is certainly the creation of our capabilities not only in terms of the amount of money spent or spent, but also in terms of how we can make use of all that we have acquired. It is quite good and proper to draw attention here, as the Minister himself said, that by 2024 we must have 20,000 defence allies in the militia, in defence, armed, equipped, trained. And this activity, well, cannot be said to be completely, but very much depends also on how we operate here in Estonia, not so much on how weapons are produced somewhere in the military industry, although true, it also affects indisputably. But our own actions, where it seems at first glance that how this is related to increasing the state's military capabilities, then training in itself, in fact the subject of exercise courses, in which we still have a large number of bottlenecks, there are small steps forward, but when we look at South Estonia, there are very big problems up there. Again, it's very much up to us. The sooner we take these steps, the less price increases will actually be, and the less money we have to spend on it. Maybe another example. Here, really now, we have decided, well, we have had this debate here for quite a while, and we have finally come to that, and it is very good that the government has also come to the point that mid-earth anti-aircraft is to be developed, and by 2025 it must be. It's very positive. However, I still urge you to take the next step right away, because, as we have seen, it took a long time to take this step in the case of medium-range anti-aircraft, the issue of long-distance anti-aircraft and the [agreement] allies. At least for the time, we can get this agreement with our allies so that they are ready to point it out so that we can get all three levels in our anti-aircraft and air defence: nearer, medium and long-range anti-aircraft, so that this air protection is complete. These lists could still be continued here, where, in principle, it would still be important to get a holistic action, which maybe with the first push does not require very large resources, money to come up immediately, but requires a very clear and quick decision-making process. For the sake of this decision, I would certainly like to put the government to the heart to deal with it. Indeed, here too, the good minister pointed out the external dimension of the political dimension, which is like the first dimension and the second dimension of the creation of an independent state's defence capabilities. Third, we can bring in a wide range of defences. And indeed, there are very, very many issues that need a more detailed approach and more precise planning, but I hope that we can deal with this in the Committee on National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U85	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U86	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, First of all, good minister, the strength to keep Siil going! Today, another exercise began on the Siil, where 15,000 fighters are rehearsing together. I understand that there are also allies from more than ten countries. That is, in fact, our substantive security and readiness and defence that must somehow come together at some point in order to prepare for what we never really want to see on the surface of our land, that is to say, a possible repression of the aggressor. Indeed, the whole national defence themed has been largely a matter of consensus, and I hope that this will continue to be the case. At the same time, when the situations that have come our way in Europe, when a large neighbour, Russia, once again invades a sovereign state, actually endangering the functioning of world peace, economic relations, relations between people and much more, the tones are heightened and the will to be more active in this matter. It still tends to be, without exception, that when speaking in Parliament about the key to questioning this chair, someone is a prosecutor and the other party is either a guilty adopter or a rejecter. It doesn't always have to be like this. And that is why I would also like to thank the Minister for the finely answered questioning. But in my approach, with my question, I already gave the direction, I would like to touch on the subject of military mobility. And it is true that Europe of peace has taken this military mobility as a fine laugh. It is in this sense that, when we look at the money figures, and this is actually a major problem in this key, when we say that our northern neighbours are joining NATO, it is not just a matter of military or national defence, it is an economic policy choice. This economic policy option brings with it the preconditions for infrastructure, as the economy must operate both in Central Europe towards the North and in the North towards Central Europe. Last week I met my colleagues from Finland and Sweden. In fact, their concern is not so much about whether we can play together in military terms and whether we are getting stronger, it is self-evident, but, as a problem, it is very keenly on the table what our connections are. The land connection to Central Europe is an unfortunate Via Baltica. The bridge situation is what it is. Fortunately, we are taking important steps in Pärnumaa. I am pleased in this sense that, for example, the bridge of Tori next to the memorial church of Estonian soldiers did not wait for better times, and on 9 May the bridge was knocked out. This is very symbolic because this problem of how to move military equipment, heavy military equipment on Estonian roads or on Baltic roads is a major concern. We must look to the truth that rail is also completely fragmented in Europe. If steps have been taken here to actually boost the transport of goods within Europe by cutting off Russian transit, then we will automatically be in dispute with our Baltic counterparts about the tariffs. When we first agree on one, when we start using them, they are quite different, because it is as if we should pay for the shortcomings that come from Russian transit to certain companies. This is a very big problem, a lump that needs unraveling and is directly linked to our security, because if the economy does not work, there will be bottlenecks, every sovereign state will be touched in some way. And if the people are unhappy, then the politicians are anxious, and that is the fruit of anyone who wants to sow confusion. Not to mention the attitude of Finn President Niinistö that diplomacy must lead relations towards Russia. In fact, with all these pages for a while, this book has probably been read and sealed. So this is a point of view in European cooperation. I think that, together with our northern neighbours, we should actually clearly put our backs together and emphasise the importance and importance of infrastructure here in the corner of Europe. This is an opportunity for us to mobilise additional resources, whether in the sense of military mobility. Because here this issue of members of the alliance cannot only be taken in a military context. I believe that today our good fellow Europeans in Central Europe are increasingly understanding us. We only lived in times when the French came to the Riigikogu to meet with the National Defence Committee, and they spoke in a quite inconsistent voice that the Estonians, which you are in trouble, why you do not want to work together alongside the state, there is a large market and opportunities, but what is your problem. And we always tried to talk about it, but unfortunately, their eyes got very big, their irrationalness grew, and the next time there was a report on the table that brought in a slight xenophobic tone that Estonians hate Russians. It's a problem that's got a new meaning. But it is also a plantbed for us to take more rapid steps towards Central Europe, make larger agreements and look inside the country, also within the Baltics, for unity. The Baltic States are a umbilical cord within this strong alliance, and these investments to raise this child must be made now and now. There's probably not much time to wait, because otherwise it's a blow to wallets and people's well-being. This is once again linked to the security guarantees of our country and regions. Thanks again and for the strength to deal with the defense!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U87	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Leo Kunnas! Is there an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U88	Oh, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U89	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Kalle! For my part, I wish the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the ministry people strength at the beginning of Sii. This is now the third hedgehog, and even the countries that are much larger than us do not organise or very rarely do so. Now, three packages of reinforcements, practically, they're starting to get in my head, too. I could take a look at them, but you already did. I would say that we are really taking a very important step forward if we can put them into practice. On behalf of myself and on behalf of the group, I have sincerely supported the steps that we are taking. As a constructive opposition, we are trying to make sure that all of these can be implemented in a nice way. And, of course, they cannot be considered separately, we also have the developments already included in the development plan, which we are doing now. The most important of these are mine-watering, where we already have sea mines and are developing further, and coastal defences with anti-ship missiles based on the ground, where we will make progress by the end of next year. And then we still have multiple rocket launchers, and we have a second infantry crew with armored vehicles. We have many things in work and developments are positive. But I'm seeing a big problem right now, the first signs of which I'm beginning to see. There is now such an impression that, yes, Ukraine is doing well, the Russian troops are being defeated, they are not going to make it anywhere, and Finland and Sweden are also entering NATO, so it is not so bad, and maybe we do not have to make that much effort. I don't blame you for this, but this attitude can just come to us in society and government, because there are other things, there are other crises that are all pressing. [Would it be necessary] that we already foresee and not fall for this attitude, as in 2014/15, where the war calmed down, the front remained there in Donbas, and everything went on as before and as usual. Let's hope we get out of this trap now. Now, as far as capacity developments are concerned, if we talk about them from here on out, the next government is probably not going to get away with the so-called fourth package, and this development cannot stop. What may have been left out of these capabilities as the most important ones now is the nearest beach defence. So we're gonna get anti-ship missiles with a range of 180 kilometers and a warhead of 100 kilos, which is almost the same class as the Neptun missile that hit Moscow north. We're going to make good progress here, but in the meantime, there's a little more modest capacity development that we need especially to protect the islands and cover the watered minefields, the sea minefields. Coastal defence with a radius of 30 kilometres is certainly the subject of the fourth package. And, of course, developing the armoured maneuvering capability to the end. It's not like we're finally gonna get past the tanks or around them. Now, I've told myself a couple of times about the British Challengers that, yes, if you slow down or fall asleep a little bit, what happens to these Challengers now, the Poles have already told themselves what the British have left, or made it clear to themselves that they can have these tanks, probably in part, as a replacement for the T72s that they have given to Ukraine in a row. Clearly, the new tanks are too much for us. It is not enough for us to make 10 to 12 million [euro] tanks, which are now becoming more expensive. How do we proceed with this, which solutions to look for? We must do so, because otherwise we will simply not achieve this ability so that we can also do counter-attacks ourselves. Of course, we want to keep our territory in the event of war, but we can be sure that if a country as large as Ukraine did not quite succeed, we will not quite succeed. The enemy is still breaking through somewhere, and to do so we need to make counter-attacks to restore this pre-war status quo, and for that we inevitably need to complete the development of the armoured maneuver. The Allies have a tank company with both tactical battalions, a tactical group here, but this is already part of the tactical groups of their own battalion, we don't have much of this ability to take away from ourselves. These two issues will certainly, and probably also the further expansion of the wartime defence force in the third package, are likely to rise. There is another place of concern here, which is difficult for us to do very much, and which I do not want to criticise from this remote control. These are Latvia's decisions. Latvia has one simple problem that they simply have too small a military defence force. Now that they're recruiting a little more professional defence forces, that's hundreds or a maximum thousand in size class, that's not gonna solve Latvia's problem in that sense, that they just have too little military defence forces. And we can't jump on them to do it, start doing it, because Latvia is a sovereign state. How to find this delicate balance to make it clear to them that wait-wait, you should increase some now, too, or we are in trouble, because they will just get out to the Baltic Sea and we will be cut off from the south, so that they wouldn't really want to do that. The Latvians are also very confident, as [shows] Pabriks' last statement that we are in the best condition. It's hard to get on with this delicate problem, so what exactly do you do with the Latvians? Of course, at political level we are also trying to deliver all these messages. As regards the Defence League, I asked the question that yes, the members of the Defence League are growing very quickly now, but they need this support right now, because of the war, because of the effects of the war, which, of course, their budget does not take into account in any way. These people can't wait for half a year or a year for when they get supplies or teachers, they basically need immediate action and solutions, because otherwise the word just goes out that they can't act right away, start practicing. That wouldn't be good right now. But that would be all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U91	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu Chair of Riho Breivel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister Kalle! Our situation today, when we look at what is happening in Ukraine, shows very vividly how time resources need to be used at certain moments. In particular, when we look at the country's attack, it must be possible to start countermeasures immediately and this countermeasures must be maximum. This is also demonstrated by Ukraine, that if we cannot hold on to our opponent on the border, it will be very difficult for us to start pushing him out of the country again. Even if we can secure armoured equipment and everything, then in any case, the most rational thing is if we can stop the enemy at the border. In order to prevent opponents at the border, I have repeatedly and repeatedly made proposals on how to resolve this matter and how to exploit the resources that we have on the border. So far, it was treated quite coolly, and how to say it, even patronizingly. It's the same border guard joining the police department. This means that his removal from the structures of the Defence Forces made it extremely, how to say, unprofessional. Today, we have been discussing these things together and we have found certain abilities in how we can solve these things. We've been discussing them with you and the Homeland Department. But what I still want to say repeatedly and repeatedly is that there is little use for discussion, and good thoughts will be of little use if we do not realise them. It is still possible to realize these, how to say, bottlenecks through the laws that we have proposed. If we do not bring border guard personnel into the defensive formation, they will not be able to fight in this unified system where the Defence Forces are best and most capable. This means that border guards must be trained in a military manner. Their service must be established at an early stage in accordance with the chain of command, so that they can be implemented through the appropriate units of the Defence Forces. How it's going to work, it's already a matter of your work. But I want to stress once again that let's not look down on this problem, that it will solve itself. It won't work itself out. Border guards on the border must be able to integrate them as quickly as possible into their national defence system. Otherwise, these people will be of no use, and otherwise all of this ideology will be of no use if we talk about the first step in the defeat of the enemy. So I would like to emphasise once again: let us not only look at this with good thoughts, but let us look at it with action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U93	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U94	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Dear co-workers, who will follow our debate! On 22 March, the situation was really quite strange, and what knowledge we have, how we prepare, seems completely elementary. Says one of our people's wisdom, that in the summer ride, in the winter, see for yourself how you're doing. But it turns out we only have good ideas. The Minister of Defence said that there are good thoughts about one thing and there are good thoughts about another, and we must, of course, see how we adapt to the organisations we are in. And they're changing in time and changing in society. We could actually talk about the abundance of species. Well, if we're going to develop a green area somewhere between houses with a lot of bugs, you could do a [area] that doesn't bother nobody, isn't screaming, isn't acute, but we can make the world a better place. The concern of the Fatherland is still how we protect our people. Has there been any major development? Now, for the time we're in today, May 16th, there could be more of that knowledge, but we know that there are still good ideas and how we fit into these changing organizations. This good will is not enough because the Orders do not fill the father's place and the memories do not silence the child. It's a poetry line that always comes to me when we don't take too seriously about protecting our own people. I also took this opportunity when Prime Minister Kaja Kallas was here on the topic of population protection or our military capabilities, everyone heard there were many good ideas, and I thought it appropriate to quote a poem. I quote it today, exactly the same poem. These people, for whom this poem is going to be complicated, I'm not gonna talk twice as slow and double, but you can do it yourself, it's either a speech robot or whatever. But here's the poem. "One soldier took a woman in a hangover and the other day she was killed. It's the end of the soldier's misery on earth, but it's just begun for her. Because she had kept on going because of the only day of the wedding night. One life ended, the other started, but it was no comfort to a woman. Because the Orders don't fill the father's place, and the memories don't shut up the baby. That's why she was six months pregnant, drowning herself with her baby. One soldier took a woman in a hangover and the other day she was killed. Three lives this time were at war, three million more waiting." I'd like our Department of Defense to take this seriously. All right, there goes that soldier and that woman. But that three million wouldn't come, so they wouldn't wait! You could still give more substantive answers, not that maybe you have a good idea in the drawer. I had a poem in Villu Tamm's drawer, which is exactly how reckless we are about our people, because soldiers are also our people. I'd like to call Chalice right now, remind you that my people, our people. I would ask the government to do more work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U95	Thank you. Mr Kalle Laane, Minister for Defence, has also asked for the floor in the round of negotiations for this inquiry. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kalle Laanet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U96	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! I must admit that I am deeply surprised by the previous speaker [words]. Those people who work in the field of defence today do not work 40 hours a week, but 160 and plus. In my opinion, this attitude from the Riigikogu hall is very clearly demoralising the area of defence. There were at least three meetings at the Ministry of Defense last night, Sunday day. At least! It's not enough to go and buy one weapon system or ammo, it's people back there. And those people who work in the field of defense today, starting with a soldier and ending with generals, not to mention those who are in the DOD's house, are working 24 hours every day for it. And sometimes the Minister makes an effort, sometimes rarely. Mr. Kruusimäe, I am extremely sad that you have such an attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U97	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U98	We will move on to the second inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, Eduard Odines, Lauri Läänemets, Riina Sikkut and Ivari Padar on 19 April 2022. An inquiry is about the availability of a dwelling and bears the number 132. Prime Minister Kaja Kallas will answer the question. I now ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, member of the Riigikogu Lauri Läänemets, to introduce the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Social democrats worry that the home is accessible to fewer and fewer people in Estonia. Housing is one of the basic human needs and a human right to which access must not be restricted in any way. Even without high inflation, housing in Estonia is becoming a luxury. Practice shows that no country, regardless of their level of development, can provide a normal housing for all residents in the free market. The role and responsibility of the state are important here. In Estonia, 20% of people live on rental premises, mainly families with lower incomes or young families. The housing belonging to the public sector is about 1.7% in Estonia, while in Europe there are on average 18% of state or municipal areas. In ten years, we have increased sales prices by 156% compared to European countries, and rents by 171%, with which we are the first in European countries. However, the average wage has risen by 92% during this period. During the last five years, the cost of living in Estonia has increased more significantly than the European average. However, there is a shortage of habitats in rural areas, especially in the case of modern habitats. This forces young people to move to metropolitan areas and hinders labour mobility and restricts the development of entrepreneurship. All of this is accompanied by the need to accommodate thousands of Ukrainian war refugees. When visiting Estonian municipalities with the Group of the Socialist Riigikogu and examining questions related to the admission of Ukrainians, there were no local government leaders who would not have been concerned about these issues. In fact, municipalities today lack the knowledge of where all refugees could live in the long term and what this could lead to. According to real estate companies, rents have increased by 15 to 20% in the last few months. It is housing with lower rental rates that is mainly increasing. This is a distortion of the market and, as it changes people's livelihoods, the state should not remain a spectator in this situation. Poor living conditions or housing loss have a negative impact on human health and lead to social exclusion. The share of housing costs in households with lower incomes is higher than in households with more wealthy incomes, leading to further inequalities. However, we do not have median incomes in balance with rent prices and the affordability of housing has fallen considerably. In metropolitan areas, both rental and purchase prices for young families are already over-perpetuating. It is also not easy for them to obtain housing loans from a bank if they do not have a permanent employment relationship and sufficient income. Young people's access to the housing market is increasingly dependent on their parents' wallets and parents' loan guarantees. But not all young people have a place to rely. The state offers KredEx guarantees for young families and rural areas, but its effect is being lost due to the rapid rise in house prices. Price growth faster than wages and inflation added to it will prolong the collection period for the money needed for the in-payment by years or even decades. The Human Development Report 2019 states that while 45% of people live outside Harjumaa and Tartumaa, only a tenth of the apartment buildings on the fingers of two hands per year will be created. The situation is worrying for rural entrepreneurs whose good home-estimating workforce travels to large cities. The fact that the rich and the poor are increasingly concentrated in different regions is also a phenomenon of poor housing policies. This, however, poses a threat to social stability and the competitiveness of cities. As a result, the Social Democrats want to know from the honourable Prime Minister what the government's plan is to slow down the unreasonably rapid growth in housing prices and ensure the availability of homes across Estonia to all people in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U100	Thank you. I now ask the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu's speech chair Kaja Kallas to answer the question, which bears 132. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U101	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions. First of all, of course, it is true that all prices have risen, that is a general problem. And, to comment more generally, it seems that we also have a cultural difference in the fact that Estonians still want to be owner rather than rent. But I'm going to go to those questions. First, "Is the rapid rise in rents a problem that you think the government has to deal with? " I am a believer in a market economy and believe that the less the country deals with all kinds of things where the market can determine demand and demand-supply through a fair price, it is in any case a better way. The imposition of national prices hinders natural development and I do not support public intervention in person. Thanks to the rental income in Estonia, Estonia is better able to acquire a dwelling year after year, and in the ten-year period, the availability of rental housing has even slightly improved, when looking at the numbers. In 2012, the average rental price per square metre of the apartment was just over 6 euros and increased steadily to nearly 11 euros by the beginning of 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic changed the situation in the rental market due to reduced demand. Transaction prices fell by about EUR 1 per square metre, i.e. by about EUR 10. By the beginning of this year, the price level recovered to EUR 11 per square metre. Thus, for ten years, rent prices in Estonia have increased by an average of 5 euros per square metre, which is 80%. In the same period, the average wage has risen by 92% and the minimum wage has risen by as much as 125%, according to Eesti Pank. This shows that the market economy model built over decades determines a fair price for the product and service on the market. And we must agree that the recent few months have also affected the rental market in Ukraine by the war started by Russia. It is not yet quite clear whether the new balance between supply and demand on the rental market is on a new level or whether it is simply of a temporary nature. The second question: "What are the government plans to halt the rise in rent and ensure the availability of housing across Estonia? " Several investments and initiatives have been made over recent years to ensure the availability of housing. For example, we have agreed in the government new terms and conditions for KredEx's home loan guarantee, which will apply from 1 March. From the third child onwards, families with many children can be guaranteed to bring a self-financing requirement from 15% to 5%, which will greatly facilitate the collection of equity capital needed to acquire a home. Many other target groups will continue to be able to use the standard KredEx home loan guarantee, which can reduce their own funding to 10%. We also solved or tried to resolve the market failure in rural areas, where the additional guarantee required by the bank could be completely replaced by a state guarantee in the event of insufficient valuation value. As is clear from this answer, these answers are specifically about the acquisition or acquisition of a home and not so much about the rental market. We do not directly have any plan to curb rents, precisely because I generally believe in the functioning of a market economy. Third, how does the state plan to help families who are not economically able to find housing in the rental market in conditions of rapid price increases and demand? We would point out that the solution cannot be to direct families to apply for income support, as the family earning the average salary does not qualify as a beneficiary. " I am also concerned about the increase in energy prices and overall inflation in Estonia and in Europe as a whole resulting from the Russian war. This pan-European inflation cannot be influenced by the Estonian government alone, because Estonia alone cannot change the balance of demand-supply on the world market. Therefore, inflation must be combated internationally, including across the euro area, for example by the European Central Bank. Since the root cause of this inflation in the economy is that demand for services and goods is significantly higher than supply, in such circumstances, the provision of outright subsidies is figuratively to put out a fire with petrol. The government has therefore decided to support the most vulnerable groups and to increase income support by 33%. In addition, we decided to include housing loan payments in the income support calculation and decided to increase the allowance for an individual pensioner by 75%, and in addition, the government has planned funds to support families and pensioners with children for the autumn of 30 million euros. Fourthly: "How does the government intend to solve a problem where Estonian families have less money to contribute to children's recreational education to pay for high home expenses? "The government, like the corona crisis, continues its policy of considering the impact of decisions on the Estonian economic environment, people's livelihoods and the development of the economy and jobs in the war environment initiated by Russia. I can assure you that the Minister of Education in the negotiations on the 2023 budget proposes to continue public funding for recreational education next year, in addition to funding for local authorities. So, to sum up, in any case, coping with people is a problem that we all need to think about together. We need to think about how to help people cope. The prices have really increased a lot, and unfortunately I have no good news about the coming winter. When we talk about energy prices, I met with electricity sellers on Friday, and they will see this situation in quite black colors as well as the energy needs of the next winter. This may mean that costs are high and people need to be helped even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U102	Thank you. You have questions too. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. But maybe you can answer that question, which no Minister from the Ministry of Social Affairs has been able to answer, and which also has local government leaders. If all Ukrainian war refugees should now be accommodationd somewhere, then in fact there are not so many physically resident places in Estonia. Most likely, some of them go back at one point, some of them stay here, but a lot of so-called living grounds are occupied. For example, there are no free living spaces in Tartu today. Where, for example, do these students of Tartu go to live in the autumn? And where can this Estonian person move to here, even the Ukrainian who came here? There must be some sort of long-term solution here, the market does not put it in place and, unfortunately, the market does not put anything in place in small areas where it is simply not worth building on a market basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U104	Thank you. That is the problem, because really, as you say, we have 38000 new people coming to us as a refugee in Ukraine. Indeed, if it is the duty of the state to ensure this short-term accommodation, sooner or later they will move to this long-term accommodation and that is the problem. The Ministry of Social Affairs is engaged in mapping these places, which could still be there, also provides support to clean up certain dwellings and make them habitable. But clearly, you don't build a house overnight. Furthermore, it is also clear that, at current construction prices, as this demand exceeds supply, prices are high and it is not actually possible to build so quickly. Maybe these surfaces aren't coming up fast, so it's not gonna help us solve this problem right away. And that's why I don't have such a good answer for you that [fastly], well, by autumn, there's no problem. I admit that this problem exists, but it was not possible to deal with it earlier, because we did not know that this war would start in Ukraine and that we would need so much additional housing. And I know that different local authorities are also working on it, some more, some less, to map these places and create initiatives to make them fit for life. But, yes, unfortunately, there are no quick solutions. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U105	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U106	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Part of my question relates to Mr Läänemets' question, but he goes on as a follow-up. It was read in the media that no one has received this support from the Ukrainian refugee war; today it is six times the subsistence limit, or 900 euros. If the limit of living and the bill are adopted, which raises it to 200, then 1200 euros. Local authorities and their leaders are also very concerned that administrative contracts have not yet been signed. If administrative contracts are signed, they must still be approved by the Council. Today, those people who find something are actually in a pretty difficult position because they have not received this support. Can you say anything about it? Because, at the end of February, if we had already had the first war refugees here, you are right that the rise in rents and the problem with them, precisely because of the war, has increased, then at least we should have acted more quickly to have the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U107	Thank you. The money should be there, just the question is that this money was not supposed to go to these refugees, but it had to go to fix their housing. This means that the money goes to the local government. At least that is how the Minister of Public Administration has explained in our government office. I have not kept up with it myself, but I understand it so much that it goes to this landlord or local government to cover, for example, this bond or the rent that has to be paid in advance to prepare these rentals. This support exists, and the additional budget should also have the resources to do so. And I would like to emphasise that this support is still intended to cover these costs. These costs shall be reimbursed. This does not mean that this allowance is paid on hand, but it is intended to make these changes in order to make the dwelling worth living.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U108	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U109	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! Indeed, the less the state deals, the better and the demand will set the price. This is often the case, but the market says that it is more effective if people live in Tallinn, and it is more profitable to make quality real estate where all people with high incomes can live together. But the country's long-term goals, also in the case of "Estonia 2035," do not aim to bring people together in cities. In rural areas too, it should be possible for a young family to build a house. But now the construction price is significantly higher than the value of the underlying assets, so state intervention is required. We also see that Tallinn is the most segregating city. In fact, developing real estate on a market basis means less development and growth for the State, less security, less coherence. It is clearly in the interests of the state that living areas should not be segregated in the city and should be directed. But what kind of instruments are we going to do that with? The market doesn't find that balance here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U110	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, this regional problem is, which is why I also referred to the terms of the home loan that is in KredEx, especially in regions where, for example, this particular deposit is not paid or the property for the loan is not of sufficient value. In that sense, I agree with you. Through KredEx, we actually support moving to the country and, in the context of the next question, I can say that there has also been more of this land within the framework of the COVID. But it's true that the market is channeling people into cities. Unfortunately, it is like there are jobs everywhere in the world, there are school places for children and that is why people are moving there. Now, as I said, we have the means to settle on land, as well as the home loan instruments, which are the market failure in the event of insufficient collateral or its valuation value in rural areas. So, of course, more could be done in this regional [supporting] case. It is also very much connected with jobs, so that people have somewhere to live, so that children can [can] go to school. Not just housing, but housing is, of course, part of this big picture. I know some employers think about it, too, like in a collection. But as I said, there are no quick solutions to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U111	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U112	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we know, after graduating from a higher education institution, you are entitled to start-up support when you go to work in certain areas, such as teachers, support specialists and so on, so that they can still be spread across Estonia. But now that these people have been working for some time and then decide to go to the rural area, they are called there because they urgently need to receive starting aid, they do not receive and mostly do not qualify on any other basis, unless they have a lot of children and so on to KredEx's home loan terms, I mean the beneficiary terms. Is there any plan to extend these preferential conditions, especially for people who are desperately needed in one region or another? And, of course, it is a concern that municipal apartments are practically out of rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U113	Thank you. Municipal flats, social housing are actually built by local governments. These are local authorities that respond to this need on the ground. I wanted to settle one thing. I received a message here in the meantime, unfortunately Helmen Kütt left, but I wanted to say that there is an agreement with the local authorities on the Ukrainians and their subsidies. Last Friday it was signed and probably now the local authorities are being contacted on this subject. But to come to your question as to these positions, municipalities and different institutions have also made various motivational packages to attract people when we think of doctors, for example. But, unfortunately, when you go to the regions, even the additional wage offered has not brought people there, even though they would receive a higher reward. We'll have to look. It is always a question of whether the spouse has anything to do in the area, and so on, even though the environment is good. I believe that we can all think more about what the levers really bring people to the country and that it would be good to live there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U114	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U115	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister! I agree that the state can intervene where there is a market failure. When, for example, the rental housing program came up, I was not at all sure whether there was a market failure or not. And surprisingly, I was already at a meeting where there were many local government leaders of the Reform Party, that this was a serious market failure, especially in small settlements, where there is industry around where people need to work. The place is quite a problem. And for a few years, this rental home program was cultivated. For example, in my municipality of residence, I observed that the house was finished in January, and now 11 out of 12 apartments are already there. It's working. Tell me, in the context of next year's elections, if the Reform Party is also putting together its electoral programme, can there be a reference in this election programme to the fact that we need to move on to this subject called rental homes? Looks like if we don't deal with it, the small settlements will moss.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U116	Thank you. There must be something left for your election program to make deals afterwards. Everyone stands for different things. You've been standing up for these rental homes, and you've been very successful. So I believe this will be reflected in your program.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U117	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I too am a very market economy believer, but you said that the state should intervene very little in the functioning of the market. I began to think that you even have three ministers in that government who, in one way or another, keep interfering in the economy in their daily work: the Minister of Economic Affairs intervenes in the economy, the Minister of Economic Affairs intervenes in the economy, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible in Estonia for such a thing as business diplomacy, which is also interference in the economy. Have you thought that if you were to be such a good believer in the market and try to minimally interfere with the functioning of the economy, perhaps you could concentrate on some of these ministers or think about what to do with the big house that the EAS has on the edge of Lasnamäe, which, after all, for taxpayers' money, is constantly interfering in the economy and is working on bringing investments into Estonia and creating businesses? Have you thought about these activities or cutting costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U119	Thank you. Perhaps you have a somewhat simplified understanding of the Minister's work. I wouldn't say they're all interfering in the economy. Economic intervention is as Ivari Padar pointed out that you have a market failure, the economy is not working properly, and then you are going to solve this market failure. In this sense, in general, the state has its own tasks and entrepreneurship has its own tasks. I do believe that there, in those places where the private sector can be delivered, should not be done by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U120	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U121	Good manager! Sire! In many regions, rural areas, the rental market has indeed dried up relatively. But my question is whether the government has discussed how the so-called poorest Estonians are competing with Ukrainian war refugees on this relatively narrow rental market. Is this competition even, or who has the advantages here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U122	Thank you. I cannot answer this question in the sense that, if there is a limited offer, that is to say, there are fewer rental spaces than the ones they want, then everyone who wants these surfaces will compete with each other, regardless of nationality.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U123	Prime Minister, no further questions, thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Raimond Kaljulaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U124	Thank you. This was an interesting debate, and I think it repeats once again the principle that I have often drawn attention to in this speech chair during the office of this Riigikogu: if there is something good in the economy, it is always a good job of the government, and if something is wrong, then it is due to factors completely independent of the government, the poor situation of the world economy, the export partners. If prices are rising, it is something that the government cannot have any influence on in any way, or if property prices are rising. Let it be said that I too am very strongly a believer in the market economy. I think that Estonia's success is very much based on the fact that we have exceptionally industrious and smart entrepreneurs who have passed on and developed and created highly competitive goods and services, which at international level has also brought Estonia income and reputation. But, of course, in the case of real estate prices, the government, Riigikogu and local governments have a significant influence on how these prices are formed. Let me explain a few aspects. For example, through planning procedures, building permits and authorisation procedures, how they are defined in law, how they must take place, and how quickly and effectively these procedures are carried out. It is clear that the longer one planning process takes, the longer the land is closed for the real estate developer or the developer of the development project under this development project, the more interest will have to be paid to the bank and all this will be reflected in the higher real estate price for the final buyer. Because the final buyer, the family who buys an apartment, is the one who has to pay for the expenses paid by the developer, and there is no alternative, including the same time and money for interest expenses and planning. Electricity connections in rural areas. For example, if a young family now wants to set up a home on the Kõpu peninsula in Hiiumaa, to settle there, a nice new school is open there, then a bill of EUR 12000 to EUR 13000 can easily be paid for the connection. Just this weekend, a person told me how he wanted to install solar panels and sell this electricity to the grid: the connection price is EUR 23,000 for this family. All kinds of municipal requirements, including demand for parking spaces, will make real estate more expensive. This is how short-term rental of guest housing is regulated. Unfortunately, the experience of all other cities, as well as Tallinn, shows that where this market is organised in a very liberal way, this has a negative impact on real estate prices. Local residents lose access to apartments, rental housing, and in a number of countries, European cities have long started to regulate this market much more than they do in Estonia. Municipal construction is not only the responsibility of local governments, but in the conditions of Estonia, where we need to keep it so that families can live in smaller places, it is essential to support small municipalities in municipal construction by the state. Indeed, this is an intervention in the functioning of the market, which creates such sustainable, low-cost rental apartments on the market, which in turn lowers real estate prices. Major interventions • exemption from income tax on interest on housing loans. I have not heard the Reform Party in the past protest against interference in the operation of this dreadful market, which is an interest exemption. And what, of course, was meant to make it easier to buy a place to live. So I would like to point out that the market and the state are actually inextricably linked, they are not two different things, that the state is interfering with the functioning of the market. In fact, no real estate market could be imagined without the state. How do you know you own real estate? You are aware that it is in a national register and, if necessary, the State will come and establish that you are the owner of the property and, for example, that the person who entered it illegally removes it from the property. Similarly, rental relationships are guaranteed by the state and so on. Thus, the functioning of the State and the market are inextricably linked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U125	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Good fellows! However, we are still talking about this EUR 900 rent subsidy. And now I'm actually quoting a newspaper that has long written about it. It has also been written that local governments have addressed the Minister with a letter of concern, here the head of the Social Insurance Board Jako Salla gives comments. And now I'm just quoting for the verbatim, because it looks like it's all right and the municipalities are going to adjust and build and do it or pay the landlord. However, the situation at the moment is that, although according to the law, Ukrainian refugees who have received temporary protection have been entitled to a rent allowance of EUR 900, the state and local authorities have not been able to reach an agreement within two months on the circumstances in which it was paid, which is why no war refugee has received it. And here's the address of the local governments, it was sent to the minister. The municipalities communicated their concerns to Minister for Social Protection Signe Riisalo. Last week, representatives of the larger municipalities met with the Ministry of Social Affairs, and after that, the Ministry sent new versions of the contract to everyone for inspection. "The question is not that municipalities do not want to help the Social Insurance Board, but we do not have all the roles clearly set out," explained the Deputy Mayor of Tartu, Mihkel Lees. "For example, the city of Tartu has already found long-term accommodation for over 100 refugees. The point is that this is a marathon, not a sprint, we are taking on long-term and labour-intensive obligations to carry out public tasks," said Lees, "it is clear that the whole process will still take time, because now the municipalities will have to approve these administrative contracts, send them to their councils. " So in the near future, refugees are not eagerly expected to receive support. "Who gets the money?" is the next title. For example, it is still open at the moment whether the allowance is paid to the owner of the rental space or to the tenant. The practice so far has mainly been to pay the landlord. Now, by Tallinn, Beškina confirmed that they have also been approached for support. The representatives of the municipalities stress that the Social Insurance Board could legally pay this allowance itself until bureaucratic processes are in progress. Jako Salla, head of the Social Insurance Institution, says that according to the law, matters relating to the asylum of refugees are pursued through municipalities in the longer term, which is why these systems need to be put in place. And he noted that if, for example, some small municipalities could not conclude these contracts for any reason, the topic would remain with the Social Insurance Board. And he also added that paying out support would require changes in the information systems. "We made a strategic decision that it would run through local governments. This is what the law says," explained Salla. And he confirmed that refugees would also be entitled to rent support afterwards. Now I'm gonna stop quoting. This is all very nice of this debate and this debate on administrative contracts. On February 24, the world changed very badly. At the end of February, the first refugees were probably already in Estonia and more have come. And no one knows how many people really need to get away from war and help. And today, when we have 16 May, there is still no clarity on how to get the so-called rent subsidy of EUR 900 at the moment, how municipalities must behave. And we know it's gonna be summer when the municipal councils go on summer vacation. There is no problem, municipalities may call councils for extraordinary sittings, but this discussion and explanations are not understandable at the moment for the municipalities and even less for those war refugees who, in fact, may have found the area to be in, but they do not have the so-called deposit or deposit. There are municipalities in which there is nothing to clean up, there are municipalities in which to clean up. Couldn't it be through the state system, the Social Insurance Board, as long as these disputes continue, as Tallinn's deputy mayor says? Actually, these things aren't okay. It seemed that the questioner was foolish or incompetent to ask this question, but seeing that many municipalities and local government associations have also turned to the Minister for Social Protection with this problem, we have no reason to hide our heads in the sand and say that everything is fine and fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U127	If the members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, then the Prime Minister's closing statement is. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U128	Yeah, thanks! In no way did I consider this issue inappropriate and I did not want to express my attitude in any way. I'm sorry if that's how it turned out. I replied within the framework of this competence, which I know, what we have discussed in the cabinet. On Friday, the Minister for Social Protection and the local authorities reached an agreement on this, and I understand that these agreements will be signed in a row. And I am not saying in any way that there are no problems in this area. Of course it is. This large proportion of refugees, which has been, could not be foreseen and has been dealt with. The Social Security Board has dealt with this in addition to other work, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, has done as well as it has done. And all such suggestions, where you can do better, come to us, and I really see that people are trying to get these things better, so that these things can move. The government has Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, who is in contact with local governments. All such reproaches and concerns must be pointed out in order to be able to do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U129	Now we have exhausted the negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. And we are done with this item as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U130	The third item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Helle-Moonika Helme, Kert Kingo, Jaak Valge, Merry Aarti, Rene Koka, Leo Kunnas, Henn Põlluaasa, Alar Lanemani, Urmas Reitelmann, Kalle Grünthali, Paul Puustusmaa, Mart Helme, Anti Polandmets, Martin Helme, Riho Breiveli and Uno Kaskpeiti on population indicators of the strategy "Eesti 2035." Please, Enquiry Representative Jaak White!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U131	Five minutes, then?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U133	Prime Minister! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There are two reasons for this inquiry. Firstly, in our opinion, the government has not provided a proper overview of the implementation of the long-term strategy "Estonia 2035," leaving the main indicators there, namely the proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue and the proportion of people who use Estonian, not presented at all in their annual review. The second of them, namely the baselines and benchmarks for the proportion of people using Estonian, should have been included in the strategy already last year, but at the time of the questioning it had not yet been included. By now, it has really appeared in the strategy, this number is 91% and it is written that it is original. But since the time series hasn't been given, that's not how that number tells us much. Like I said before, there's no record of either of these figures in the government review. But let this strategy be what it's like. The main reason for this inquiry is that our basic population figures have deteriorated, both the cohort coefficient, the proportion of people living outside Harjumaa and Tartu County, and the proportion of people speaking Estonian as their native language. We have not been spiteful and have not asked about excess mortality, the causes of which still need to be analysed. In our inquiry, we have also noted that the population has fallen. This was not an error of understanding, but it is a result of the fact that we relied on the data available at the time of the inquiry, but in the meantime, on Thursday of last week, Statistics Estonia revealed updated data: the population is 4,000 more than the figure they had previously given. However, there is no reason to rejoice because the population increase in 2021 was caused by a sharp increase in immigration, mainly from the eastern Slavic countries, and the natural growth was very negative. The proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue and who use Estonian and who live outside Harju County and Tartu County is influenced by government policies, namely through immigration and regional policy. The coefficient of cohort birth is also influenced by government policy, but again, true enough, the 2021 figure was not influenced by the government, or let's say it was influenced by two or three months. But what matters here now is that there has never been any influential initiatives by this government to increase the birth rate. This has led to such a broad-based parliamentary initiative to increase the various family benefits. All the more so, the questions raised in the inquiry are relevant and there are reasons for repeating them. So first of all, does the government attach importance to the commitment made in the strategy "Estonia 2035" to increase the birth rate? If so, is there an action plan for this? Does the government consider it important to fulfil the obligation to reduce regional disparities? If so, what specific changes are envisaged? Next, why does the survey not reflect the decline in the proportion of native speakers in Estonian? Has the government abandoned the aim of increasing the proportion of native speakers in Estonian? If the government has really abandoned this objective, is it a policy corresponding to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia? If the government has not abandoned the aim of increasing the proportion of people speaking Estonian as their mother tongue, why has there not been a policy aimed at achieving this objective? I would like to emphasise that this is about the permanent population and the year 2021; it is not about Ukrainian refugees. All right, let's go. If the government has not abandoned this goal, what will be done to make it right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U134	Now please, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U135	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. The first question: "Does the government attach importance to the commitment made in the strategy "Estonia 2035" to increase the birth rate? " Yes, it does. The "Estonia 2035' action plan, endorsed by the government on 28 April 2022, continues to focus on the birth rate indicator with the target set. The action plan provides for the following actions under the necessary change "A. Designing a comprehensive population and family policy for sustainable population and well-being." Firstly, the development of a diverse family policy in support of birth rates and parenthood, which takes into account the different needs and needs of families: the development of a system of support for safe, happy and lasting couples and family relationships to prevent family breakdown and increase the well-being of parents and children; the development of a system of support and services to promote child-raising and reconciliation of work and family life in order to increase the quality of life of families and support the birth rate. Secondly, increasing cross-sectoral cooperation to implement the population policy supporting the sustainability of Estonia as a nation state. It also set up a Committee of Government on Population Policy of 13 May 2021, chaired by the Minister for Social Protection, with the involvement of a number of other relevant ministers, officials and experts in the field. The second question: "If the government attaches importance to increasing the birth rate, is there an action plan? " Increasing the birth rate keeps the focus of the aforementioned demographic policy government committee, and no separate action plan has been set up. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs is taking the lead in the development plan for well-being 2023.2030, where family policy is more widely reflected. The third question: "Does the government consider it important to fulfil the commitment made in the strategy "Estonia 2035" to reduce regional disparities, i.e. to increase the proportion of people living outside Harju County and Tartu County? The opposite has been the case at the moment, what exactly are you planning to change? " According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's immigration balance in Harju County, metropolitan areas and Tallinn has become negative since 2020. This means that people have moved to small towns and rural settlements. Despite this change, the government continues to consider it important to achieve the set targets across all indicators, both in the "Estonia 2035" strategy and in its action plan. The regional balance in the location of people living in Estonia can be achieved by various regional measures that help to improve the living environment, promote entrepreneurship, create jobs and improve access to services in the regions. The government's approved action plan includes, for example, supporting the north-east and south-east Estonian labour markets in order to ensure regional balance; developing a regional business environment in cooperation with local authorities; diversifying and facilitating the availability of sources of financing for enterprises; increasing regional accessibility of cultural areas to ensure a more attractive living environment beyond the centres of attraction and supporting the cohesion of society and the well-being of people across Estonia; reducing regional inequalities and strengthening the administrative and development capacity of local authorities; developing youth employment opportunities in cooperation with local authorities regionally and sectorally; ensuring the availability of teaching advice services based on common service standards in all regions; ensuring the availability of employees and officials with the necessary skills in different regions. Question 4: "Why does the report not reflect the change in the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue? Has the government abandoned the aim of the "Estonia 2035" strategy to increase the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their native language? "The government has not abandoned the goals set out in the "Estonia 2035" strategy and is monitoring the trends of all indicators of the strategy. The action plan endorsed last year did not reflect the metric of people who speak Estonian as their native language and who use Estonian because of the lack of methodology and data. It's just been added. This year the methodology was clarified and the percentage of people using Estonian language, its initial and target level, was added as part of the update of the action plan. In 2021 the starting level of the measure for people using Estonian was 91% and the target for 2035 is higher than 91%. Question 5: "If the government has abandoned the aim of increasing the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue, do you consider this to be a policy contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia? " The government has not abandoned the aim of increasing the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue. In my previous reply, I pointed out that the target level that is to be achieved is above 91%. The proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their native language is reflected in the action plan approved by the government on 28 April. "If the government has not abandoned the aim of increasing the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue, why has there not been a policy aimed at achieving this objective? "Estonian language development plan 2021 2035 was confirmed by the Estonian government in 2021, whose general objective is to ensure the vitality and functioning of the Estonian language as a primary language in every area of life, to guarantee everyone the right and opportunity to use Estonian, to maintain and strengthen the status and reputation of the Estonian language and the cultural and information space in Estonian and to value the ability to speak other languages. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research has completed an action plan for education in Estonian with the aim of ensuring that all students receive high-quality education in Estonian from pre-school education to higher education. The government has also submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law on early childhood education, which states that each group must have at least one full-time teacher with a command of Estonian and at least 50% of the weekly period of study and education activities, which is higher than the basic school and upper secondary school law, [must use Estonian]. Question 7: "If the government has not abandoned the aim of increasing the proportion of people who speak and use Estonian as their mother tongue, what will it do? " In addition to the development plan for Estonian language, in 2021 the Government of the Republic approved the "Sidusa Estonia Development Plan 2021.2030," whose implementation is coordinated by the Minister of Culture, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs contribute to achieving the objectives. I wonder if there's a ministry out there that doesn't help. In any case, everyone should contribute to this. However, the development plan sets out objectives in four areas: Estonia, the global Estonian economy, community-based Estonia and smart population accounts supporting adaptation and integration. Education in the Estonian language for adults will continue to be provided through the Integration Foundation and the unemployment fund. In addition, this year the government has increased the volume of adult Estonian language learning to support the integration of Ukrainian war refugees into Estonian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U136	The Anti Division will begin with questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U137	Good waitress! We are in a situation where more than 100000 Estonians work abroad, but at the same time the government has taken a course to lower the salary criteria for different employees. For example, the same foreign law that has now come fresh. How does this cheaper labour import affect the return of these people, if we keep reducing and reducing wage criteria for seasonal workers, and if we keep reducing wage criteria for top specialists? I find that worrying. There is one clear limiter why our people are not coming back: the pay is low.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U138	Thank you. The fact that larger wages can be paid is that companies are doing well and that companies are able to pay higher wages. This is certainly necessary in order to strengthen the economy. This is not about any of the requirements imposed by the state, because we can, for example, very easily raise the minimum wage requirement somewhere high, but then just those companies that can pay this salary are less and people can be recruited accordingly less. Our level is just another place. I think we must all make an effort to make the Estonian economy a smart economy with high wages and this salary paid to the people of Estonia here for the work they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U139	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U140	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! I give you the opportunity to express your vision and vision of the two or three measures to help young families in Estonian society, so that the birth rate increases and more children are sent to society. If you had unlimited financial opportunities and a good coalition partner who would not hinder your good ideas in life, what could be these two or three ideas for increasing the population of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U141	Thank you. Children are born out of love and when mothers first feel well and secure. In fact, in order for children to be born, mothers need to feel good about themselves. For this, there are a whole series of things that are done elsewhere, for mothers, for young mothers, for example. We have mothers working very often, and when they have a child, it is their concern and joy. Fortunately, there are more and more fathers who also make a great deal of contributions, but I think that it should be first and foremost based on the fact that there is a strong and functioning family relationship. That's when babies are born. That is why we have different ideas about this. For example, this family mediation system is very important for us to have fewer children from broken families. When mothers feel safe, they dare to give birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U142	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U143	Thank you. Prime Minister! The population is increasing mainly because of immigration, I understand. But here's my question. I'm from Southeast Estonia, and I've been talking to people there. They'd actually come back. Does the government have any plan, any concrete measures, so that people would like to come back and be able to come back? This is not only about pay, it is about transport costs, transporting children, developing small businesses there are very many factors. Would you mind answering me a little bit about what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U144	Thank you. This is a very correct observation that it is not just a salary. Certainly, the fact that people have jobs in these regions, and also that if you are with a family, children will have the opportunity to receive good schooling and day-care places available. What have we done for this, and what have previous governments done? It is intended to promote regional measures to promote the settlement of land. For example, the previous question made it very clear that it was also a question of housing, rental spaces where people could move. It is good, of course, that if we look at the last few years, the people who come back to Estonia, who are mainly Estonian citizens, and if we look at them regionally, we will see that people have moved a little more to the country in the last year, even to smaller towns, of course, in Harjumaa, but there is little. That's what you're pointing out, just so people have jobs where they pay good wages, but there's something else to do. That is why we also have this cultural side, linked to this development plan, so that, for example, culture is not all concentrated in metropolitan areas, but also regionally different cultural areas are also available. For people to have a good place to live in all areas of Estonia, because there is work there, but it is also possible to spend their time with these points in the action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U145	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Last year, the migration balance for persons of Ukrainian, Russian and Asian and African [country] nationality was 5800, i.e. nearly 6,000 more citizens of these countries settled permanently than they left us. After all, this is the same mass immigration and perhaps even larger in volume than in the 1980s. Of course, the proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue also decreased. Nevertheless, the government coalition relaxed the rules on immigration. My question is, we will exclude Ukrainian refugees from the accounts, how much the balance of migration should then expand in order for the government to change immigration policy, namely to aim for the survival and development of the Estonian nation state, as required by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U147	That's the government's goal. The [follow-up] of the Estonian Constitution and the preservation of Estonian culture and people have always been the goal of all governments and work has been done for this. I don't know what you're using on the basis of, but I'm using Statistics Estonia's data on immigration in Estonia. When we look at 2021, we see that 7056 people with Estonian citizenship migrated to Estonia the most. There were 4082 European Union citizens. If we take this [number] apart now, then actually come, right, Finland, Latvia, Germany. The third place was people of Ukrainian nationality, 3047 people. From there on, there were only 3010 people of other nationality and 152 of them were unknown. So this 5000 cannot be true according to the immigration data of Statistics Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U148	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U149	Thank you very much, manager. Prime Minister! We've been talking about family, family, family welfare, birth rate growth today. These are very important factors, because many things in our society revolve around family and family. But my question is motivated by how can I still, as a starfucker, know what this family and family is? One thing is whether they're synonymous. The other thing is what family is. Because until this parallel law of marriage was passed, it was as simple as family, but now there is confusion, perhaps legal nihilism. I'm asking you where I could take the family's legal definition. I refer to this, for example, that Article 24 (1) of the State Statistics Act says that it is a statistical unit, a family, but it does not say where the legal definition is, which is a family.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U150	I think no matter how we define it, families are very different. If people think they're a family, that's what they are, even if they don't fit into some kind of legal definition or description. As you know very well as a lawyer, the legal definition is always written very narrowly. [Write it in a way] to cover everything is much more complicated. So, yes, it's the family that thinks of itself as a family and lives together. It's every family's business.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U151	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U152	Thank you. Prime Minister! It seems to me that you too see the proportion of Estonian-speaking people in Estonia falling as a serious concern. I have a simple question: how much do you see migration, both immigration to Estonia and emigration from Estonia as an important factor in this fall? If this is an important factor, what measures should be taken to ensure that the share of Estonian-speaking people in Estonia is maintained or increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U153	Thank you. We should make every effort to increase the proportion of people who speak Estonian. For me, however, this is a matter of education in particular. Why do we now have people in Estonia who do not speak Estonian? Because they can handle another language. But if they go, I don't know, Finland or Sweden, it's not conceivable that they can get there in their own language. Above all, I am also talking about our [existing] large language group. For me, education in Estonian is that children from kindergarten study in Estonian. Then there will be no need to go to another language school, no matter what language they speak at home as a native language. [Mother's language] We can't change [other native children have] exactly as many as we have [these] mothers. However, it is important that the proportion of people speaking Estonian in Estonia increases. The key, in my opinion, is education, so that everyone who is here can speak and use Estonian and live in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U154	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U155	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You guys are still trying to get a little confused. When we talk about immigration and migration, we say that people are coming, people are going, they are migrating in and out, we are actually talking about the balance. This balance has clearly been detrimental to Estonia in recent years. Estonians, yes, of course came back to their homeland, but they also migrate very much. The balance of Estonians is 100 people who stayed here, and the balance of foreigners is 5800 who stayed here. This is clearly to the detriment of the Estonians. You are consciously confusing two things: one is native Estonian and the other is people who use Estonian or simply learned it in Estonia. One is that if we [promot] the number of people using Estonian as their native language [enlargement], we will develop the principle of the Estonian nation state. Otherwise, we will develop Estonia as a citizen-based country or build Estonia as a citizen-based country. You, of course, are involved in encouraging a citizen-based country. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you intend to comply with the Constitution if immigration is fully promoted?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U156	Thank you. The Constitution provides for the protection of language. When we talk about English, you can't take your native language away from anyone. If the native language is any other language, but you speak Estonian and use that language in Estonia, I think it is essential for the survival of the vitality of the Estonian language. [Estonia] has just as many mother tongues as we have Estonian mothers. I think so, thinking of the people of Estonia who have learned the Estonian language, [have received] citizenship, passed the exam, wanted to be Estonian citizens, considered Estonia their home, respected our culture, language and cultural space, that yes, Estonia is a state of Estonian citizens, we cannot make any distinction there. Everyone has equal rights, they are Estonian citizens, no matter what your native language is at home. Let me give you an example. The mother of my brother's child is Russian and speaks both Estonian and Russian beautifully, goes to Estonian-language school. Are you saying he's not Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U157	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U158	Thank you. You see, as a man cannot choose his own sex, no matter what he says about it, a man cannot choose his own nation, no matter what he says about it. To be an Estonian, you must have an older relative who is an Estonian: a grandmother or a mother or a father or a grandfather or an great-uncle. The fact that you speak Estonian, that you are born in Estonia, is not enough to be Estonian. Such people are either well-integrated or well-assimilationd: Estonians, Estonians, Estonians, Estonians. But they are not Estonians. Taking away people from their nation to build some kind of globalistic liberal citizen-based country, look, here you are talking yourself in. You said before that all governments, including your government, have supported the Estonian nation state. But you don't really support it, you just said it. Now I have a question: can you answer us how many native speakers there were in Estonian, as a proportion of the population in 1991, when we were independent, and how many are there now? Is this number bigger or smaller, can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U159	First of all, I would like to say that I think there is an ideological difference here. You want to start assigning the right Estonian. I don't know how you're gonna appoint the right Estonian in the end. This has been the case in other countries throughout history, when it has really started to look for roots that are still Aryan and not Aryan. But we know what it led to. I just don't think it's possible to define it that way. There's a lot of writing about it. A person can define himself as both German and Estonian at the same time, for example, because he has parents of both [nationals], and he can feel both German and Estonian, and in the Eurovision competition he lives with both. In a [other] country [living], the [skills] of the Estonian language can be considered important. For example, I have lived in Belgium, where my child attended school. There were Estonian Christmas parties every year, where half the children were not Estonian in your sense, but they sang in Estonian, read poetry in Estonian, everything was blue black and white, were very proud that they had the roots of Estonia. Why are we driving these people away? Why are we also driving these people away here in Estonia, saying that, no, you are not the right Estonian, even if you consider yourself an Estonian? But to the question, I don't have that material with me right now. We can check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U160	Martin Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U161	It's a procedural question. I have to say, it's amazing. I'm just saying that you have to be a mother or a father or a grandmother or a grandfather of the same ethnicity, so you can say you're from the same nation, and then you're gonna give me some kind of speech...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U162	Yeah, but you can be both...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U163	... an Aryanism that I haven't talked about. No one's ever told me about the drive-off. I have a request that the chairman make a note to the waitress so that she does not put words in my mouth and does not answer a question I have never asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U164	Martin! You've been here on the remote instead of me, and you've answered as I answer you, that the questioner asks, and the respondent still answers according to his wishes. You also know that the remark you just made was not a procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U165	Good manager! Sire! I have these basic principles of population policy here. Then, of course, the war had not begun and had not yet been spoken of such a huge migration. But here is the sentence that immigration favours highly skilled workers and students and contributes more than before to the integration of immigrants. My question is whether this 'Estonia 2035' should now begin to change these fundamentals of population policy. Or are we just gonna turn a blind eye and say we're starting from the past, and all the tens of thousands who have come here for a war and maybe stay for a long time and start taking part in population policy decisions, things, aren't important? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U166	Thank you. As of now, war refugees have been given temporary protection for a year. It is now estimated that war refugees will be here for a year. If this situation changes and they stay longer, you probably have to see if it changes anything in the big picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U167	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Of course, it is a very difficult question when we talk about being an Estonian as an Eastern virumaan, precisely as an Eastern virumaan in the region from which I am [here]. I come from Narva, where all Estonian people were actually driven out in their time. There are a very small number of native Estonians; most are those who speak other languages and are our citizens. I agree with you a hundred percent that they must be taught the language and that they must learn the Estonian language, otherwise they will not be able to exercise themselves in Estonian society. That's clear. But this learning is a process that must have strong state support behind it. What we've done, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I would like to say that it should be nationalized in all the educational institutions of these municipalities, because...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U169	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U170	... a municipal problem in terms of their management.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U171	Thank you. Yes, we are aware of this problem. That is why we have only recently made a decision here on two schools in Ida-Virumaa. The state also takes over comprehensive school, although it is usually the competence of the local government. This is so that the Estonian language can be better taught.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U172	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Sire! First of all, to comment on Mr Helme's question, or to comment on your answer. You compared the Estonian nation state to the Eurovision. I don't think that's appropriate. This is not a sentence worthy of the Prime Minister about the Estonian nation state. But my question relates to the fact that one day the Reform Party promised to bring Estonia among the five richest countries. This is the result: we are at the highest level with our cost of living, 19%. The question is whether you have made an estimate of how much Estonian people can leave Estonia due to the cost of living in order to find a more favourable place to live abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U174	Thank you. First of all, do not put words in my mouth; I did not compare the Estonian nation state with the Eurovision. I was talking about who a person feels like and who he is sympathetic to in the Eurovision. Maybe you'll be surprised, but inflation is pretty high all over the world. Estonia has also experienced exceptional economic growth, which is why our inflation is higher. Growth in Estonia was 8.9% last year, while growth in Lithuania, Latvia and Sweden was 4.8% and economic growth in Finland was 3.3%. It is clear that inflation comes from the fact that there is too much money and too little supply of goods. But, unfortunately, inflation is everywhere in the world, so it doesn't help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U175	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia begins with the words that the unwavering faith and unwavering will to consolidate and develop the state created by the national self-determination of the Estonian people in undisturbed justice, which must ensure the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. Please explain how you understand this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U177	Thank you. This is how I get it: to ensure that Estonian culture and ethnicity last through the ages. Just like it says.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U178	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming back to the statistics. Last week, fresh immigration figures were published, according to which in 2021, before Russia's attack on Ukraine, 4900 Ukrainian and Russian citizens settled permanently, plus 3 500 citizens, mainly from Asian and African countries, but 1,400 Russian or Ukrainian citizens and 1,200 Asian and African nationals left. More than 5800 citizens of these countries stayed in Estonia as a permanent resident than they left. The citizens of European Union countries came to live in Estonia 1,100 more than they left, and among them there were only +100 of Estonian citizens' migration balances. It is the balance that matters, not what you said that Estonian citizens migrated. He did, but he did. These are simple calculations. Thus, in fact, more than has now been shown on the Statistical Office's website on the basis of the indicators of this development strategy's action plan, the ratio of native speakers of Estonian had to decrease. This number must be supplemented and, unfortunately, not more positive. The Estonian state is known to be created for Estonians, although we treat all Estonian citizens of other nationalities equally. I, once again, identify Estonians and people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue for the sake of statistics. If we had 1332000 inhabitants on 1 January and 66.6% of them spoke Estonian as a native language, as Statistics Estonia's homepage is If we have more 50,000 refugees and assume that they will stay, it will reduce the proportion of native-language speakers to 64%. If the immigration before 2022 were to continue, that is to say, the migration balance would be 5000-6000 plus and the birth rate would remain at the current level, then in about ten years the proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue would be smaller in Estonia than it was at the end of the Soviet occupation. At the time, this figure was 62%. And in about half a century, we'd be outnumbered. I repeat, this situation would be ours if these amendments to the Aliens Act had not been adopted. But the government irresponsibly relaxed the immigration rules further. If we were to assume that this would result in an increase in the balance of migration and recognise that this is a reasonable assumption, then it would be a minority in a few decades' time. That's how the figures show that there's nothing to argue about. The refusal to support the majority of the draft proposed by Parliament, according to which the support of the first and second children of the family will rise to EUR 100, the support of the third and more children to EUR 700, means that not only care is taken that the proportion of people speaking Estonian does not fall, but also cares about the birth rate and the livelihood of families. If it is not your words, but your actions, it is still very difficult for me not to conclude that the situation that the government is taking us to, which does not comply with the principles set out in the Estonian 2035 strategy, is not in the same way compatible with our constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U180	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U181	I'd like a little extra time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U182	Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U183	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether to cry or laugh when the Prime Minister assures us that the purpose of the nation state is important to today's government and that they are working for it and that they are working to achieve the objectives set out in the preamble to the Estonian Constitution. In practice is actually going in the exact opposite direction. In order to match their declared slogans and their conflicting activities in any way, to match them with their metamorphosis, they are deliberately mingled with terms. The people who speak Estonian and the people who speak Estonian as their native language are confused, mixed with the absolute value of immigration, the balance of immigration, the people who migrate, how long they stay here or how many leavers are among Estonians. The sad fact is that we really are moving on to the situation that we had 30 years ago when we were driving today's government. In a few months, in a few months! The share of Estonians in the population has fallen to where they were at the end of the Soviet occupation. All this 30-year-old big work and effort It's kneeling that counts, descendentity counts. Maybe liberals just don't understand it. But the fact that you have roots is what matters. The fact that you have parents and grandparents, who also have national belongings, who have cultural and linguistic identity, it matters. We know that today's left-wing liberals would like us to live as permanently as in Cambodia: zero of the year, no yesterday, everything starts every morning from a new page, and we know nothing about what happened yesterday. But that's not the way it is in the real world. The fact that you have at least one Estonian among your ancestors allows you to say that you have an Estonian identity. If no Estonian is among your ancestors, not even among your grandmothers, great-grandmothers, then you can speak impeccable Estonian, you may be a very great Estonian patriot, but you cannot be Estonian. You just can't be Estonian. On top of that, it is brutal, to be honest, to try and take away their identity from these non-Estonians in the name of this same shit. The person who has lived in Estonia, who has learned the Estonian language, who, as has been said here, sings Estonian songs and waves the Estonian flag, can, of course, be an Estonian patriot. But that means he's integrated, or even more so, he's probably an assimilation non-Estonian. And no one's gonna drive them away. Such annoying slogans that don't drive them away, why do you want to drive them away? Nobody drives them away. We would like Estonians to retain their host status in Estonia, which means that we must have extremely strict and restricted immigration. That's what we want. We want Estonia not to be a geographical term. We want Estonia to be a state of Estonians, just as it was created, where it is possible to handle Estonian in every corner of Estonia, including when riding with Bolt or ordering from Wolt or when going to a café in Narva. Against this goal, today's government is working on all fronts, so with what it is doing on the educational front, with what it is doing on the immigration front, with what it is doing with public messages. We do not have the same citizenship-based state of existence in the Constitution. We do not have a citizenship-based country in the Constitution. The citizenship of people comes from the nationality of their parents. It is a heritage-based citizenship policy and cannot be replaced. Just because it doesn't suit the liberals, it can't be replaced by some other thing. Once again, the fact that we are working for a nation state unfortunately falls the opposite. If the proportion of Estonians decreases, the proportion of Estonian speakers decreases and nothing is done to increase the Estonian age, it will be no use that you call out slogans here. Under your leadership, the Estonian nation state will fall apart and be destroyed. It is particularly horrifying that the Estonian nation state will be demolished by selling it to the public in the form of the reconstruction of the Ukrainian nation state. It's appalling duplicity. The Russification of Estonia is taking place because we are building a nation state in Ukraine. If you'd just try to figure out how crazy this is! Then you would probably no longer be liberals if you understood that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U184	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good lord! Colleagues! After the 1990s, about 70,000 children have not been born since regaining independence. Our time horizon on this document, which contains 19 pages, is 2035. At that time, girls born in 1995 are 40 years old and their fertile age is running out. The girls of 1995 in 2035. I'm sure a lot of people are gonna have kids then, but all in all, it's gonna add up to a very small fraction, maybe 0.05 or 0.06. So the question is how girls born in 1995 can improve the demographic situation of the Estonian people. It is often the case that they postpone giving birth, mainly because of the desire for self-realization and also because of economic reasons. Here, the government has no matter which government has great opportunities. This substantial increase in child support, recently signed by all other political groups on the initiative of the Centre Party, on which the Reform Party has said that it is not the right time at first, is one sure way of improving this situation. But that's it. So the goal of 2035 and the girls of 1995. Yeah, these meters are pretty blurry in here. When we discussed this in the Special Committee on the Population Crisis, before this [Commission] was killed, it was like there were no meters or they were such blurry, and knowingly, it seems to me. To this day, it has largely survived. But somewhere 1.9 so-called children could still exist on average in 2035 for this generation in 1995. Although it's less than 2, 1, which is the ideal option, but it's better than nothing. But let's see what's happened in the meantime. The ruler said that the Ukrainians who have come here have come for a year. All forecasts show that nothing actually ends in a year. Inflation doesn't get any lower, and most of those who have arrived or are arriving will not leave here. The majority of them are relatively young Ukrainian women or rather women from Ukraine and their children, many of whom are already pre-fertile [age]. So I'm saying that these arrivals, the refugees of war, will also be involved in demographic behavior here. Although Ukraine is indeed a real bombhole when it comes to the demographic potential of today's Ukraine, even compared to Estonia. But in any case, they're going to be here. And, as Mr White rightly said, it is actually quite criminal for women coming from Ukraine, mostly young women and their children to be significantly integrated here. This is a criminal step for the Ukrainian nation state. Perhaps the ruler has read a shocking article by the demographers, which actually shows the demographic situation in Ukraine. This is the demographic society managed by Hill Kulu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U186	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U187	Yes, I would.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U188	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U189	It says, I quote, that from 20 years of age to 35 years of age, 1 000 women, especially women, have left the country 300-350. In the best working and fertile age. Now the question is whether 10% goes back to home country or 90% goes back. That's the question. In my opinion, these children should be taught or at least try to teach the most in their native language, Ukrainian. This would help the Ukrainian state and nation state. But there is no need to try to integrate them here. As the ruler said, in fact, we do not yet look [new] at the beginning. This 19-page fundamentals of population policy should, in my opinion, be quite seriously changed and supplemented according to the situation that has developed since the war. Now I come back to those who came here before the war. This balance [is such that] of the 5,000 that have remained, there are 3,500 or more people from Ukraine and the Russian Federation. It was already here before the war started, 3,500 more last year. Now, then... I'm not going to call this number, but it's going to be an increasing number. I will also come back to the fact that, when, at the beginning of independence, the Aliens Act stipulated how much immigration could be, that percentage, then after that, there have been not infinitely, but very many exceptions, so that who can be granted exceptions more and more and more and more and more. Of course, at the beginning of independence, it was stated what the measure of the Estonian national body and state is, how much it can resist and be, so that it does not become dangerous. It's long overdue, long overdue. Unfortunately, this is not taken into account here in the fundamentals of population policy, the metrics of which are rather vague, and have not been honest about it. But I think we should talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U190	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U191	All right, ladies and gentlemen. Fundamentals of population policy. I'll bring you another vector that concerns this subject, and I think it's very important. This may provide an answer to some of the questions why something is happening today, why this is happening and why there is so much misunderstanding here. I think that this is a fully aware policy that is being carried here as such and on which we have already had a number of fellow Members who have said well the evil words. Both Martin Helme and Peeter Ernits pointed out that here we have a lot of sorting, dimming, spinning with terms, playing with different definitions, which, like, no definitions, because no one understands what they are. We are talking about statistics, but we have no understanding of basic concepts. When I asked about the concept of family, our Prime Minister said that this is such a broad concept, it is not necessary. But it's actually important. This is as important as many other statistical concepts. We have a law on national statistics, according to which different statistics are made, and it sets out the statistical units that apply to our society. There's a person, there's a family, there's a household. But all these statistics, if we're talking about human development, are like the dashboard of a car. Because they show you right, we know how to drive right, if they don't show you right, we don't know how to drive right. We're driving wrong, maybe we're crashing a car, maybe we're breaking society. I have the feeling that society is broken, because the path chosen is consciously that everything should be as dim as possible, that it would not be possible to understand who is a citizen, what is a family, or what is a marriage. It's good to fish in the swampy water. Perhaps this is also one of the reasons why I am not saying that the main reason, but that is one of the reasons why the government cannot come along with the raising of family benefits. But what's family anyway? What's family? Let us first take Article 27 of the Constitution, which says very specifically that family is the basis for the survival of our nation. Okay. And then what is it? We found out from the Prime Minister that this is what someone thinks it is. As someone thinks. How, then, are we supposed to provide grants on this basis? How should we lead society? In short, I just wanted to say that, unfortunately, our government has chosen the path where there are as sluggish concepts as possible, as sluggish statistics as possible, so that it would be best to catch fish suitable for them in wet water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U192	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. The Prime Minister would like a final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U193	Thank you. I start with the fact that according to Statistics Estonia, as of 1 January 2022, the share of Estonians was 85%, and this has been the case for years. Now we come to the question of who is still Estonian. Actually, descendentity matters. I don't disagree with that in any way. But you have two parents, and you can also come from an Estonian and also from a Russian. At the same time, you can count yourself Estonian and also Russian, just as you define it. Native language now. If you come to Martin Helme's story that descent doesn't matter and you still have to talk about how things are happening in the real world, then in the real world, you may have different parents, and you might come from one line coming from, I don't know, Germany, the other comes from Estonia. So, what are you gonna count yourself as all in all? I still don't understand why we have to reject these people. I gave an example of the children's Christmas party in Brussels. The native language of these children was often something quite different, but they were entirely Estonian patriots. Why are we pushing them away? Similarly, the Russian-speaking Estonians here. How do they define themselves? It is not up to us to say this once they have learned the Estonian language and they have Estonian citizenship. That's how it is. Listening to older men talking about all this talk about family benefits, hearing women use the term "fertile age" as if they were talking about some sort of... I'm sorry, but not people! You know, it's so insulting, it's so insulting. It sounds just like you think she's some kind of delivery machine, but you let the support in, the baby pops out and that's it. It's not like that. Children are born out of love. You know, if you really want to raise birth rates so horribly, the most appropriate measure is to stop educating girls, lock them in their rooms, so they can't get out of there. And children will be born the way they are when they are, as you say, fertile. Don't talk about women like animals. Women are people and make their own decisions. Like I said, you decide to have a baby when you feel safe. Children are born of love when the family has such a thriving emotion. It doesn't matter how you define it. If people feel good about themselves in the family, families will grow and they will be good even if they do not go under this legal definition. I still don't understand it. Today, everywhere in Europe, in the value room we live in, in those countries that share the same value space with us, the birth rate for one woman is, unfortunately, more or less the same as we do. For this reason, women have opportunities other than to give birth and fulfill your dream of a huge increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U194	We have exhausted this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U195	We will move to the fourth item on the agenda: the inquiry submitted by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa and Priit Sibula, members of the Riigikogu, regarding the activities of the Teachers' Association. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U196	Thank you. Minister Liina Kersna! Our question is about the activities of the Estonian Teachers' Association. There's been a lot of questions about HTM lately. These questions, whether on the procurement of tests or on the subject of an inquiry [on], are united by a fundamental issue: how prudent is the Minister and his ministry acting with taxpayers' money? A month ago, we asked the Minister questions about the Teachers' Union. Namely, one of the strategic partners of the Ministry of Education and Research in implementing the policy is the Estonian Teachers' Association. The Union's task is to be a partner to the Ministry in increasing the number of teachers applying for the profession and developing the application system, and this provides the organisation with state support for its activities. Some higher expectations have been set for the strategic partner, which is why I would like to draw attention to the activities of issuing an invitation to the administrative supervision carried out by the Chamber of Professionals of the Foundation in the Estonian Teachers' Association. The conclusions of the Chamber of Professionals of the Foundation reveal a number of offences in connection with the award of the invitation. It has been pointed out, among other things, that the decisions of the professional committee are not lawful, and there is a suspicion that the professional committee will carry out the task assigned to it by law to decide whether or not to give an invitation to the person seeking the invitation only formally. In addition, the validity of the decisions of the professional committee is called into question. We therefore asked the Minister to answer the questions. Our questions are known, and hopefully there will be a list of questions ahead of the answers. But still, the main questions are as follows. For what reasons did HTM enter into a strategic partnership [the agreement] with the Estonian Teachers' Association? In addition to the publication of the results of the monitoring, why was it not considered necessary to further examine the previous period of activity of the Teachers' Association? Why does the same administration continue to show such great misdemeanours in its work? How has the Ministry reacted to the problems highlighted in the administrative supervision that was completed in February this year? With regard to the financial figures, we asked what amount the HTM Teachers' Association has supported and whether support will continue on the basis of the objectives listed. Also responsibility: who bears responsibility for all those who have been the subject of unlawful behaviour by the Teachers' Association and the Professional Committee during the period of the invitation? Let's count on the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U197	Reply by Lina Kersna, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good inquisitor! I'll answer the questions. "For what reasons did the HTM enter into a strategic partnership with the SEE? Would alternative options have been, and would have been, to increase the number of teachers applying for an invitation? " First of all, I think that the number of teachers applying for an invitation will increase once we have established a career model for teachers, one of which also includes different levels of teaching. However, the functioning of the professional system is generally governed by a professional law under which a legal person, or his authority or a public or government authority, declared to be the winner of a competition organised by a professional body and having such registration in the professional register, may act in a public competition organised by a professional body. The function of the professional body is carried out by the Chamber of Professionals of the Foundation. The Estonian Teachers' Association has won a public competition organised by the Chamber of Occupations twice and has received the right to give a teaching profession. The right to an invitation shall be granted for a period not exceeding five years. For the first time, the Union of Teachers received the right to be invited in 2013. In 2014, the right to give a master teacher, or level 8, was added. In 2018, the Association of Teachers was entitled to continue as an invitation. It is also possible to become a qualified teacher after completing the teaching profession at the university. There are no other alternatives: either by graduating from the teaching profession at the university or by applying for a separate invitation from the Teachers' Association. In order to select strategic partners for the period 2022 to 2024, the Ministry conducted an open application round, to which the Estonian Teachers' Association also applied. On the basis of the evaluation results of the evaluation committee, which did not include a minister, it was proposed that the Union be a strategic partner in policy making and implementation. With regard to implementation, the Commission proposed to support only those activities that will help increase the number of teachers applying for an invitation and make the application system more effective. The second question: "The Estonian Teachers' Association has been engaged in the invitation since 2014. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: Why was monitoring not extended to the period from 2014 to October 2018 after the results became available? " The Office of the Chamber of Appeal shall organise the activities of the bodies issuing the invitation to administrative supervision. The period of administrative supervision shall relate to the right to issue a valid invitation. The Estonian Teachers' Association has a valid professional right in the case of teachers' invitations during the period from 7 November 2018 to 6 November 2023. The purpose of administrative supervision was to verify the legality of the operation and development of the professional system and to make recommendations and precepts on the basis of the results. Precepts and recommendations can only be made to the professional, who can actually comply with them, who has the right to give an invitation. The third question: "The management of the EÕL is the same as during the administrative supervision period of the SA Vocational Chamber, as well as the composition of the same professional committee. What is the basis for HTM's conviction that the ECHR and the Committee on Professional Affairs are capable of remedying the shortcomings so far? As a minister, give a moral assessment of the decision to choose the role of a strategic partner of the Ministry of Education and Research as a strategic partner for the misdelivered EÕL for years? " With regard to the activities of the Estonian Teachers' Association, administrative supervision was carried out for the first time. As far as I know, the Estonian Teachers' Association has also begun to comply with the precepts. In order to resolve the offences, the Chamber of Appeal shall also cooperate closely. The common interest of all parties is to ensure the legitimate functioning of the system. I would also like to add that administrative supervision is a rare practice in the professional system. Rather, it focuses on preventive actions and quality assessment. From this very thorough administrative supervision, both the Teachers' Association and the Chamber of Occupations have learned. The process of issuing an invitation is complex and non-profit organisations need more support in the form of advice, training and guidance material when taking up the role of the administrative body. The results of the monitoring will draw attention to bottlenecks and help to improve the system for all applicants. The fourth question: "How has the Ministry reacted to the problems identified in the administrative supervision carried out in February 2022, and what steps will be taken if the surveillance planned for the autumn brings similar results? " The Ministry has discussed the results of administrative supervision with the Estonian Teachers' Association. The results of supervision have also been discussed at the Education Professional Council. The ex-post evaluation will be carried out after the invitation application round that will take place this autumn, which will be in October, or after the results of the round have been established. Further steps can be planned by the Chamber of Auditors by analysing the results of the ex-post evaluation and taking into account the possibilities provided for in the Professional Act. There is a possibility that the deadline for resolving the problems will be extended, but there is also a possibility that the professional council will be proposed to withdraw the right to be invited. These are the possible solutions. Question 5: "In what amount has the Ministry of Education and Research supported the activities of EÕL during the 2013-2021 period? Please provide the amounts for each year and indicate the purpose of the allocated support. During the period when the Ministry of Education and Research has allocated funds to the EÕL to assess the teaching profession and issue professional certificates, has this money been used by the EÕL to pay the costs? If so, what amount and for what reason? "The direct costs associated with the award of the invitation shall be covered by the professional examination fee paid by the applicants. The Ministry of Education and Research has further allocated support from the state budget for the start-up and development of the professional system in order to keep the costs of the professional examination as low as possible for the applicant. The use of public budget support shall be subject to both a content and a statement of expenditure. The statement of expenditure is not presented on a case-by-case basis but as a pool, such as salaries, administration costs, etc. The payment of legal expenses is not prohibited and the Estonian Teachers' Association has not requested the Ministry of Education and Research to pay the costs. Now the sums. €13500 in 2013, representing teachers on education issues. 2014: EUR 14 500, cooperation partnership on key education issues as a teacher's representative, launching a teacher-vocation system and conducting communication activities. 2015: EUR 29 500, promotion of the teachers' professional system, including conducting a satisfaction survey among applicants and members of the evaluation committee. 2016: EUR 29 500, contributing to the increase in the value and attractiveness of the teaching profession and the continuing training of teachers, including the mapping of career paths for teachers and the holding of a conference. 2017: EUR 0. 2018: EUR 9000, implementation of the company's statutory activities in the performance of professional duties and preparation for the qualification of teachers. 2019: EUR 25 000, the importance of the role and profession of teachers in society and the smooth running of the teaching profession system. 2020: EUR 20 000, performance of the duties of the professional and notification of the invitation. In addition, it was possible to use 2000 euros via the NGO Teachers' Associations Cooperation Chamber, but the Teachers' Association did not make use of this possibility. 2021: EUR 2000; operating grant for statutory objectives allocated through the Co-operation Chamber of the Teacher Communities. Question 6: "Who is responsible for all those who have been misbehaved by the ECHR and the Committee on Professional Affairs during the period of invitation? " Teachers' association certainly bears responsibility. Administrative supervision confirmed the legitimacy of the invitation process as a whole, not individual decisions. All invitations issued are still valid, and all applicants had the possibility, if they so wished, to make use of the option of filing only or also of challenge before the administrative court. According to the preliminary data, during the entire period of career of the Teachers' Association, disputes have been submitted to the professional provider twice, both in 2021. An appeal has also been lodged twice before the Administrative Court. As a general rule, solutions are already being sought in the process of awarding the invitation and applicants are given the opportunity to submit improvements and clarifications. Most applicants reach the award of an invitation on the basis of such a process. If you look more closely at the number of applications and decisions not to award an invitation, then the highest number of applications was in 2021 when there were 139 applications, and decisions not to award an invitation were decided twice, in 2020 there were 93 applications, and in almost 10 cases it was decided not to issue an invitation, in 2019 there were 80 applications, and in 13 cases it was decided not to grant the invitation requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U199	There are questions. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a slightly broader question, it concerns the subject of teacher follow-up. It has something to do with this at the end. But the question is that, for example, when people have graduated from Tallinn University in the early 2000s in a particular field of teaching, but have not worked at school in the meantime, these schools [where they work] receive a report from the Ministry of Education that these teachers do not qualify. There aren't many of these people. On the one hand, we talk about it all the time and create opportunities to attract teachers to school. But these are people who haven't graduated from [university] for a very long time. The problem would not be, if these people had been in office one day, if they had any proof that they had been in school for one day, then there would be no problem. The problem is they haven't worked in a day. Is there any way to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U201	Thank you for this very correct question. This problem has been solved, we have changed the qualifications of teachers in such a way that the qualifications of these teachers continue to apply. Indeed, it was one of the first topics that the ministry's supervision also introduced to me that this was a problem. In fact, these teachers are qualified, we do not have any substantive reproach on them, but we should not call them qualified teachers. We took steps to change it, I think, six months ago at least.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U202	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the final part of your answer, you counted how many didn't get this professional standard, 80 of the applicants, maybe 13. When calculating the head, it came to be that there were 10 to 15% of those who did not pass it. Could you open up some of the reasons for this? Was it simply not enough for these people, or was there too much to say about the rigidity of bureaucracy? Can we fix something, change something so it's not that percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U204	Thank you for your question. I really don't get reports that didn't get the invitation requested. So I don't know how to answer that question, but I encourage you to ask it as a written question, for example, from the Chamber of Commerce of the Foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U205	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U206	Thank you, Mr President. This question is undoubtedly extremely important, but I think the more important issue right now is that you have awarded contracts with a value of more than EUR 8.7 million in breach of public procurement procedures. The ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Kert Kingo, Moonika Helme, Mart Helme and Kalle Grünthal have submitted a petition to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the Defence Police. The big media doesn't reflect it, maybe you're hearing it for the first time. But the question is, Kaja Kallas justified your behavior by simply having to do it. I ask if the status of a minister gives the right to break the law if the minister thinks it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U207	Thank you. First of all, the government felt it needed to be done. Secondly, the amount you said was wrong. The amount was slightly above EUR 7 million. There should be corruption in order to initiate criminal proceedings. In this case, clearly, it is not corruption; I have not benefited in any way from these transactions. It also needs to improve you that I really read the news about Postimees online, so the mainstream media did report your message. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U208	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U209	Minister, thank you very much. We come back to this question. You are well-gifted in the sense that you can describe where there is a problem, and you can understand what kind of problem needs to be solved. But I don't hear any solutions. That's exactly what's been found here, a pretty big violation. You basically said in your reply today that you had some meetings on this subject, but concrete steps to prevent such an infringement from taking place in the future, I did not count it out. What exactly is it that you have already done and will do in the future so that this situation does not happen again?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U210	Thank you. Firstly, these meetings have been held in order to advise the Teachers' Union on how to avoid these violations in the next few times. I don't think you're [that mind] or not, but maybe you, for example, who are very strongly defending exam thresholds, are also that if you do not exceed the 50% threshold, you will be cancelled, you are not very important or you have failed. But I don't think so. I think it is necessary to give people new opportunities. The organization was lost. This supervision was done because we understood it in the ministry, there were complaints, and we wanted to get objective information that went wrong there. The Teachers' Association was supervised, we identified problems and we are trying to solve these problems, giving the organisation the opportunity to solve these problems. If the organisation cannot solve these problems, but we have a valid agreement until 2023, then we will end this agreement. But I do want to live in a country where we give people and organisations a second chance. Maybe you don't want to live in a country like this, I definitely want to live in a country like this. The Teachers' Union has also been given the opportunity to close its shortcomings. If they do not, we can terminate the agreement earlier and launch a new competition to find a new organisation to give the teaching profession. Whether or not anyone wants to give a teacher's invitation to this competition, we don't know that. In addition to the Teachers' Association, no one has so far wished to give a teaching profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U211	In the case of inquiries, members of the Riigikogu have one question. I don't see any more questions, so let's go to the negotiations. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U212	The Minister, in his speech, became very emotional, and now he also left the hall, which is very sad, because I wanted to tell him that I do want to live in the country where I know who is responsible when some sort of act has been done that is to understand that someone should be responsible for it. This discussion and the issue of the Teachers' Association are happening exactly as it has been the case recently, which is a general feature of HTM activities. This is, for example, the financing of higher education: universities refuse to sign administrative contracts, the Ministry understands the problem, describes this problem, but there is no solution. It is an Estonian language study: the minister perfectly describes the problem that in many schools graduates lack the corresponding level of Estonian language, but there are no solutions. This is the subject of teacher follow-up, where immediate action is needed and a comprehensive plan is to be launched, but we are pushing the solution package into the future. It is the subject of the corona tests: there was a call for tender, and from the beginning it was known that this was done with violations. I understand it is appropriate to tell the Minister that it was urgent and that it had to be decided immediately. In fact, we knew we needed to get tests in schools, several months before we signed. Maybe if you come to the beginning of my story, the same thing could happen to universities soon. There is an urgent need to sign something, but the problem was known from a long time ago. It is not enough for the Minister to describe the problem and understand it, but to have a vision of how to solve it, a vision of tomorrow is needed. Now it is the same with the Teachers' Union. Teachers' follow-up is one of the most important issues and it is on this issue that the strategic partner proves unreliable. The conclusions of the Chamber of Professionals of the Foundation reveal a number of offences in connection with the award of the invitation. It has been pointed out, inter alia, that the decisions of the professional committee are not lawful and there is a suspicion that the professional committee will perform the task assigned to it by law to decide whether or not to give an invitation to the person seeking the invitation only formally. In addition, the validity of the decisions of the professional committee is called into question. And what does the Ministry do? Pretends that nothing has happened and will continue to describe the problems until the opposition calls order and points out that the noble objective, or the post-generation of teachers, and the current situation, or the violations detected in the work of the Teachers' Association, do not coincide. The Minister would expect not only a message and an emotional response, but also a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U213	I don't see any requests to speak. I will close the negotiations and close this [day round] point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U214	We are going to the fifth item on the agenda: the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Reuben Kaalepi, Rene Koka, Mart Helme, Siim Pohlak, Urmas Reitelmann, Kalle Grünthal, Helle-Moonika Helme, Riho Breiveli, Leo Kunnas, Alar Laneman, Anti Polandmets and Jaak Valge concerning the disastrous situation of the protection of the ancient heritage. Envoyer Ruuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U215	Dear Riigikogu! Mr. Minister! Good listeners! A year ago, I made an inquiry here to the previous Minister of Culture, Mrs Anneli Ot. This inquiry was motivated by a deep concern about the state and preservation of our farm architecture. A much wider issue arose on this subject, which concerns our heritage protection policy more generally and is crucial for all Estonians who consider it important to preserve our historical heritage, the heritage protection policy is particularly brutally and especially at the wrong time, the cuts, redundancies and excessive bureaucracy that prevent these tasks from being carried out. The result is that the historical heritage cannot be sufficiently protected or preserved, even in the extent required by the law. Historians are very concerned about the preservation of our archaeological heritage, which we are talking about here today. On 13 January, 65 archaeologists addressed to the Minister for Culture, which drew attention to these very difficult concerns. The biggest problems are that we have not been able to secure archaeological sites that are actually discovered in the course of the year by dozens and perhaps even hundreds. They cannot be protected because of excessive bureaucracy. Therefore, these fresh discoveries are at great risk of looting. We also see its fruits: we have storage facilities full of archaeological objects from the very same sites that cannot be preserved. [These items] will not [can] be stored and will simply be destroyed in storage because no funds have been found for [storage]. A large number of specialists have been gathered in this field. Without will, we will not be able to compete with the black market, which will take on a very large proportion of these same findings. Not wanting to cast a shadow on honest detectorists who report their findings and act in full compliance with the law, it is inevitably necessary that we also be able to compete with the black market in terms of the size of the finders' fees and the size of the fund. All of this is noted in the very destructive assessment of our heritage defence policy by archaeologists. In the same address that was presented in January, archaeologists say that the situation is completely catastrophic. Many very dignified [archeologists], such as Heiki Valk or Valter Lang, have pointed directly to the fact that our history is essentially destroyed. You know what's really depressing about this? The fact that, now, in the 21st century, in recent decades, we have built up an enormous amount of technological tools and new opportunities to actually map our history and discover new discoveries in ways that we may have dreamed of before, in a time of opportunity like this, our historical heritage will actually be destroyed the fastest. Another issue that had not arisen at the time of the questioning, but which I would certainly ask the Minister to address. This concerns one of our most valuable archaeological findings in recent years. This is the 13th-century Hansakoge excavated from the port of Tallinn. Finding the means to preserve it is a matter of a few months, because otherwise this very valuable find will simply be destroyed. This is, among other things, a question of the reputation of Estonian heritage conservation throughout Europe, so that it does not happen as it did with Salme's ships, when the Estonian government did not find the means to preserve their findings and they were only obtained thanks to donations from European archaeologists. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please, Minister, give me hope that the situation will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U216	Please, Minister of Culture Tiit Terik!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U217	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, who are watching the work of the Riigikogu! Your concerns and references are very important and important. I am happy to answer those questions that you have opened in your inquiry. I will mention the question you mentioned before you go to the questions and answers. Some time ago, on the tenth birthday of the rebirth of the Seaplane Harbour, Mr Dresen and I touched on the same subject. I have a plan to find time and go see this excavated experience. Of course, it is important to address this issue. One of the bases we have in Fat Margaret. I believe that this finding, too, is certainly extremely important for opening up our cultural and archaeological heritage. Now to your questions. The first question: "What are you going to do about the joint approach of archaeologists [on January 13]? " I can tell you that I met with archaeologists on 19 January and, in addition, I responded to their referral in February in writing. Professor Valguga and I have discussed these issues in the past during my visit to Setomaa. The approach of archaeologists is reflected in concerns about structural and staff changes made by the National Heritage Board. At the meeting and in the letter of reply, I have explained that the structural changes made by the National Heritage Board have a background. A separate department of archaeological heritage was established in January of this year. Until now, archaeological topics belonged to one department, along with building heritage and heritage reserves. The new Archaeological Heritage Department has competence in archaeological monuments, historical natural sites and underwater monuments and heritage sites in the area of archaeological heritage. The change made should increase the capacity to deal with the archaeological heritage in the future, in our hope. Unfortunately, redundancies were inevitable in the National Heritage Board at the beginning of this year, as you mentioned. This is because the Agency's staff budget had a very large deficit by the end of 2021, amounting to EUR 200000, and this is, in our view, due to the incompetence of managing the budget by the heads of the authority. Decisions were urgently needed to avoid an increase in the deficit and to maintain the capacity of the Agency. Indeed, six people were made redundant, one of whom was an archaeologist. As regards the human resources policy of the National Heritage Board, I said this to the representatives of archaeologists and I also repeat to the honourable Riigikogu that human resources policy can be managed by the head of the administration and the Ministry does not intervene here. In order to find a solution, we now have very clear and high expectations for the newly elected head of the new authority that will shortly take office. Your second question concerns measures by which the Government of the Republic will ensure that the Heritage Board has sufficient resources to immediately secure archaeological monuments and preserve findings. I would like to say to you that there is really no progress in granting protection to the inheritance, and this has been a concern that both the Ministry and the authorities themselves know. The proposals of the National Heritage Board for the protection of other species of heritage are on my desk, and all of them have also been signed by the Minister. However, only a few draft archaeological monuments on land have reached the Ministry. In 2019, the Heritage Protection Act specifically established the possibility of two-tier protection for archaeological heritage. This means that archaeological heritage can be protected as a cultural monument or as an archaeological site. It is easier, faster, and this process can be implemented by the National Heritage Board itself. There is no need for the signature of the Minister here, the signature of the Director-General at the level of the authority itself is sufficient. What is eloquent, however, is that this opportunity has never been used in three years. As there is no practical application practice, there is no reason to argue that this process would be difficult. The authorities could look at their tool case more closely here. Unfortunately, there are also those who idealize the way private property was protected in the 1990s. I'd knock on their shoulders and ask them to put themselves in the landowner's role. After all, we do not want to have national restrictions on our property one day without being informed, a clear land border [established] and a clear justification. The Heritage Protection Act allows restrictions to be imposed, but they must be legal and there are rules for this. The third question: "How many possible archaeological discoveries that the National Heritage Board is aware of is currently under inventory, and by what deadline is it planned to do so? " Information on archaeological findings, I can answer, and possible discoveries are coming to the National Heritage Board on a continuous and ongoing basis, and therefore the list of potential discoveries is up to date. However, in 2021, for example, the Agency was transferred from 536 rural units. Most of them are case-nos or non-historical findings, which do not require any further action. It has not always been necessary to review all places in the landscape and, unfortunately, due to limited resources, it has not always been possible to do so immediately. The National Heritage Board shall keep a record of the findings transferred and of the possible sites and shall, as far as possible, examine the sites on the spot. Your fourth question concerns how it is ensured that the ancient heritage is preserved during the period between the discovery of the archaeological site and its protection. In reply, I can tell you here that this is a matter of social and personal responsibility and also of being aware of our cultural heritage. We can't stop a police officer next to every monument. The answer is therefore that all of this will take place in particular in such a way that users of search tools, landowners and also the general public are aware of the issues of archaeological heritage. It is also possible to apply temporary protection, yes, indeed, if there is a risk of destruction or non-compliance before such protection is granted or a place of discovery determined. Fifthly, you have asked what cooperation the National Heritage Board will have with higher education institutions to ensure a thorough investigation of new sites. At this point, I am pleased to reply to you that higher education institutions are one of the main cooperation partners of the National Heritage Board in carrying out studies, evaluating findings and discoveries, and, later on, storing the discovery material and releasing it into scientific circulation. It is precisely the higher education institutions that order the various researches and discoveries. The representatives of the higher education institutions also participate in the work of the archeological monuments expert council of the National Heritage Board as well as in the work of the discovery committee. The National Heritage Board will involve archaeological students in the review of the sites and in the preparation of expert reviews. The vast majority of the archaeological findings and information on the sites transferred to the Office shall be transferred to universities, their archaeological collections and archives, where it shall be freely accessible to all investigators. The sixth question concerns measures that are intended to enhance cooperation between detectorists and the Agency. I can tell you that Estonia currently owns about 800 valid search permits, and the most important thing is that Estonia has taken the path towards a positive inclusion of hobby seekers. We follow the principle that responsible detectorism, in cooperation with heritage conservation and archaeologists, helps the landscape to identify archaeological heritage. In order to support responsible detectorism and cooperation, applicants for a search permit shall be trained. The completion of the training is a prerequisite for obtaining a search permit. Secondly, I can point out to you that it is important to enhance practical cooperation in exploring and other archaeological fieldwork, where it is necessary and always possible to involve hobby seekers with a search permit. The Agency also brings together archaeologists and detectors who want to contribute to archaeological research. Representatives of the Agency shall also participate in search events initiated by amateurs. The seventh question concerns the measures to be taken to increase the expertise of the detector findings. I can tell you that the analysis of findings is a legal obligation and, unfortunately, the money is scarce. The number of findings has increased year after year. You referred to the development of technology that would allow more findings to be made. It can be said that there has also been an increase in resources. The question is how to manage these resources. Namely, since 2015, the budget of the National Heritage Board has increased twice. Yes, you have heard correctly: since 2015, the budget of the Estonian Heritage Board has increased twice and the composition of the agency has halved. Maybe we can't talk about keeping the Agency in some kind of poor financial condition in the long term. But of course, there could always be more resources and resource management is also important. I can also continue to see that the Agency has received a great deal of resources in its administration compared to other institutions. The Ministry of Culture did not cut the Agency's budget even during the crisis. The task of sharing resources within the existing budget is for the head of the institution and it is a clean management tool. That is what I mentioned in an earlier response. It is important to know that currently the Estonian Heritage Board is also analysing archaeological procedures in the Ministry of Culture's audit. Its results are a good input for the Minister and the Ministry, but certainly also for the new Head of the Office in decision-making on procedures and composition. Our expectations for the new leader in the field of archaeology are very high. The eighth question, or last question, concerns the heritage reserve of Paide Vallimäe, which Mr Grünthal has brought to my attention twice by asking me in this Chamber. I can say that this has been a decision to consider where the introduction of a historic school building as a state gymnasium has outweighed the maintenance of a lime furnace that had been hidden in the ground up to now. For Paide State Gymnasium, the building was reconstructed and restored, which was saved; it was the house of the Gymnasium of Girls who stood empty in Paide. In December last year, Järvamaa's only state gymnasium students were able to start teaching under the best possible conditions. A beautiful historical building with a modern addition, created by Salto Architect Bureau, will hopefully bring even more life to Paide's Old Town. The way the school was brought back to the old town is an excellent example. As a result, the old town of Paide has also been filled with young people. The National Heritage Board has submitted all the legislation on which the decision was based to Mr Grünthal in accordance with his request, which was submitted in 2020 according to my information. The 12 lime kilns in the Post and the medieval building have been archaeologically examined, dug through and fully documented. Here you could highlight the various dates and different procedures that have been carried out in connection with this object. According to the information I know, the suspicion that this is a random decision made by one person has not proved to be true. Thank you for your attention and I will be happy to answer your additional questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U218	Thank you. Yes, it is. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U219	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! The issue of detectorism remains a very acute one. I would therefore like to know more about how it is planned to resolve the issue of the protection of archaeological monuments in a situation where the findings of detectorists are waiting for years to be clarified, examined and examined. Because of the lack of resources, archaeologists find that work has grown so much because of these activities that detectors need a five - year moratorium. How can we do that? Do you have any ideas of how to guide detectorism in such a way that it is civilized or more civilized in every way? There are very different people among them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U220	Thank you. It is true that there are different people among them whose awareness of cultural heritage and archaeological heritage is different. I know that among your good group friends there are people who consider this area to be interesting to themselves and are dealing with it. I think this is where raising awareness is most important. All that is found is reasonable to review with specialists to see what the historical value of a particular finding is and how to proceed with it. Of course, the detectors have a duty to inform the National Heritage Board. Training should be a good basis for them to handle their findings with great sensitivity. What happens to this discovery when it is taken out of the ground, of course, in a completely different environment, the finding begins to behave in a completely different way, the access to light and air do their job. We hope that the new Head of the Agency will be able to create sufficient good working conditions for these processes, and also to provide sufficient resources from the budget allocated to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U221	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are a number of museums in Estonia that are located in medieval fortifications, with dignified museums. They are also responsible for the preservation of the sites on that territory. They usually have large-scale Structural Fund-funded projects behind them now. They have been used to develop the visiting environment of museums. But the Structural Funds cannot cover the wider needs for repair and maintenance of fortifications. The castle museums continue to operate despite the fact that they have already incurred a repair debt, which continues to accumulate. This, of course, means depreciation of basic resources and there is no need to be a hiromant to predict major problems and accidents in the future. Is and how the Ministry intends to ensure that the architectural monuments in the castle museums are preserved properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U223	The short answer is that in cooperation with the owners or owners of these museums. We also have a large number of [museums] with local government participation, and we work closely with [municipal governments]. These [museums] are here in Estonia to take many. As an example of how best to resolve these issues, I may be able to bring you together. I have planned a visit to Saaremaa by the end of this month, for example, to discuss with the management of an important museum there how best to solve the problem you have raised. But the renovation debt is quite a wide topic and it also concerns museum objects in a wider sense, not just fortifications, including farm architecture and all that. On my visit to Setomaa, I was assured that the needs there were great, and I believe that the visit to Saaremaa will also provide important information and knowledge. In itself, some resources could be added to the fact that, hopefully, travel restrictions and the movement of people are now changing, which means that museums will gain more ticket revenue, self-revenue. This could certainly be what improves the financial situation of museums. But I'm sure it's cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U224	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U225	Thank you. Some very conflicting talk you spoke about the question of bringing new sites under protection. On the one hand, you acknowledge that there is a major problem that none of them have been protected in recent years. On the other hand, you are questioning whether this suddenly does not restrict too much of the freedom of private owners to act or so on. After all, this is one of the main questions that both historians and the wider public are asking you to answer. Do you really want to put all this responsibility on the National Heritage Board, as if your word as a minister pays nothing, or are you still going to take up this matter so that these discoveries can be protected, so that their looting will end in the next few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U226	Thank you. As I mentioned, there are several ways to be protected, either as a cultural monument or as an archaeological site with the first momentum. After all, this procedure has been somewhat simplified. The [decision] of the archaeological site can be signed by the head of the authority itself, without necessarily having to go to the ministry. But in all of this, it is very important to distinguish which objects are reasonable to take protection and which are not. Here, the expertise of people in the field is certainly greater than that of the Minister, and I can, of course, rely on experts in the field for various decisions. If the specific Commission says that yes, there is a reason to be protected, or it is not so important that it should be approached the hardest, then of course it needs to be reviewed. Not all objects with a cultural object are always of national importance. With this question, you can certainly move forward together with the new Head of the National Heritage Board. But as I pointed out in my reply, we have a ministry audit on the processes and editings of the National Heritage Board. I think this audit will provide very clear answers on how to take your steps in the coming days.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U227	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U228	Thank you very much, manager. Dear Minister, I have a desire to return to the experience of Lootsi Street, an object from the 13th century that is extremely interesting and important in itself. You said it was surprising and that you were planning to go see it. This is, of course, pleasant in itself, but it must be stressed that this experience is a matter of days: perhaps a month or a half, and then it will be permanently lost if we cannot save it. The question is whether the ministry or the agency still has the resources to save this unique object.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U229	Thank you. We have a common concern with you. This unique and important find is, of course, worth it to deliver it as soon as possible to save it. I mentioned in response to Mr Kaalep that I have been talking about the same experience with Mr Urmas Dresen, who runs the Maritime Museum. The cost of the work could be EUR 50000 - 60000. The Maritime Museum is a financially very capable institution and it is likely that most of these resources they will find themselves. If we should also allocate funds from the ministry's reserve there, I believe Mr Dresen will bring this matter before us. Of course, we are very serious about both this financial need and the critical time frame you have referred to, which is certainly important for this finding. So I'm going to give you hope from this remote control and give you a positive message.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U230	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Paide Vallimägi. Clearly, you have been given misleading information. Yes, indeed, there is a decision on its design, and that is what you described. But the question is, the same unfortunate lime oven came out during the so-called removal of the soil. When this problem arose, the heritage officials initially planned that it would be preserved to be exposed through the glass floor. It's all right until then. However, the decision to demolish the lime furnace was made by a single heritage officer. Just one. There was no longer a decision to consider, the decision to consider was a design decision. I ask and I want to know why this official is not held accountable. Please also send me the decision on the basis of which this lime furnace was demolished, because it is a very significant document on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U232	Yes, indeed, there have been a great many procedures in ordering this school and building, where one person's decisions and signatures are certainly not needed. In this respect, it is important to say that yes, indeed many [decisions] have only one person's signature at the bottom, but it can be seen as the position of the authority which has previously been subject to the procedures. I think all of these have also been collective decisions in the case of the National Heritage Board, which are set out in this procedure. I see this: in 2014, archaeological preliminary studies, then special conditions for heritage conservation in 2014, as well as detailed planning in the same year, archaeological research in 2017 and 2018, the sketch project based on the architectural contest was coordinated and visited by various authorities in 2019, the preliminary project in 2020, the main project in 2020 and the archaeological study in 2020. I highly doubt that all the decisions that have led to the fact that this school is standing up and there is no oven would somehow be discretionary decisions of one person. The letter you sent on 21 July also received a reply from the National Heritage Board on 31 July, which is well signed. I hope that the important reasons put forward here could give us all the assurance that this process has been carried out in accordance with the rules. If it has not been done and you have doubts, then I have highlighted here in the round of questions and answers before, and you yourself have pointed out that the destruction of a heritage heritage protected is punishable by criminal penalties. If these reasons are not enough for you, maybe there is reason to make a statement and ask the following authorities to examine whether the procedure has been complied with. Of course, we must respect our cultural heritage and archaeology with the utmost respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U233	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to know your position. Do you think that the current procedures for managing and possessing national heritage sites are objective and reasonable? We have some objects, such as the same memorials of Maarjamäe, you probably also encountered it in the previous profession, where the state is a representative through the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Administration, and we have some objects, such as military objects of the cultural value of Hiiumaa, on the lands of the State Forest Management Centre. All the time there's gonna be haunting who's supposed to clean them up and who's not supposed to. My personal view is that we should have some sort of clear one occupation and keeper who should follow it and look at what are the most important objects. Do you now have any plan to manage this country's heritage value better and monitor what is happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U235	Thank you. I guess there's a lot of going back to who owns a particular object or land. That's where many processes begin. You mentioned the Maarjamägi complex. As a former minister, I believe you know as well that this should be an unreformed state country. The position of the state is, of course, important in these processes. About 80% of these objects are privately owned, ten percent are owned by the state and ten percent by local governments. So this is where you can look for these solutions according to the owner. Yes, the National Heritage Board will face a lot of important challenges in the coming years. This review of the list, the inventory, including the inventory of archaeological monuments, should, in addition to this same audit of processes, give us a better understanding of how to proceed most effectively in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U236	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Defending a memento is a rather bureaucratic procedure. I'd say that's the size of a good Bachelor's thesis. Could it not be simplified?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U238	Thank you. Well, for protection, as I mentioned earlier, we have two options. One is through the ministry, which is probably more bureaucratic and perhaps somewhat more complicated. But I'm sure the head of the National Heritage Board will be able to protect himself with his own procedures. In the case of protection, it is also very important that, in the nineties, this is said by a number of specialists, perhaps too hasty and with little background information, objects were taken into protection and thus the interests of private owners were reduced to a very large extent. I think that any restrictions on private property should be considered very clearly. Here are very important steps that need to be taken so that we do not put owners in a very difficult position. It is also important that everything be handled in accordance with the procedure when it is declared to be a memory. After all, heritage protection cannot work outside our rule of law. For other types of inheritance, this is also the way it works. There is no way to agree with the argument that this would be more bureaucratic in the case of archaeological heritage than in the case of others. In all areas, including archaeology and protection at all, there is, I think, the same principle as in other areas of life that concern the country: the state must be predictable, i.e. we know that if the preconditions are met, the state will probably do so. In the case of these restrictions and protections, it is also important that the country is predictable and that as little as possible is what your fellow Member has said is a matter for one person.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U239	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U240	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would ask more about the decision-making powers of the heritage officials. This is about the catastrophic situation of the protection of the ancient heritage. We know that this catastrophic situation is sometimes largely due to the strict use of the decision-making powers of the heritage officer, as I say. You've already talked about narrowing down the interests of the private owner. I would like to ask whether the law on heritage protection should suddenly be reopened and modernised, certainly partly in the direction of simplification and simplification of funding, also looking at all the building conditions that are there. As owner of a heritage-protected building, I'd be happy to come to this working group, I'm sure I know these bottlenecks very well. Would it be possible for us to break the law of heritage and discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U241	Thank you. This is your chance as representatives of the people, absolutely. The view of the owner, as you mentioned, is extremely important here, extremely important. But when it comes to breaking the law, it wasn't a long time ago, it was 2019. The law then gave a great deal of flexibility, say the people of the field. Three years of implementation practice, we have come to this point in our discussions, but there is still not enough time to evaluate the application practice, so we should open up new laws. I don't think there's been much time for analysis. What do we say about financing decisions? Well, they're not directly related to legislation. Funding decisions can be made within the limits of the state budget that the government puts together, the honourable Parliament will argue and confirm. We have had a legislative framework for functioning for three years in a fresh version. The budget, I think you can start discussing after the summer vacation, we're already looking at the numbers we could operate in the state budget in the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U242	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U243	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. A month ago, before leaving, the head of the National Heritage Board told the Ministry that there would be duties all the time, but not money. It means that you're there, you're always whipping, you're always on the job, but you're not the money. Now the 200,000 that was missing, and all that other concern. Heritage conservation is also very important to our identity. If you look at what we're going to spend money on in the extra budget, we'll see that millions are flying. How do you feel you could have added $200,000 to that extra budget, or are you such a bad person that you're always giving more jobs, but you don't give money? Or is it just not your word in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U244	Thank you. Well, I can't really accept this whipping, because Mr Raie and I, who left office, didn't work together. In November, when I took office, these decisions had been largely made. I have had a brief exchange of views with Mr Raie on the subject of heritage conservation, but already in a situation where the head of his office was no longer present. So all the expectations and hopes that were in the ministry and the thoughts that were in the profession remain for a period before I arrived at the ministry. As far as the budget side is concerned, I did not notice whether you were in the Chamber at that moment, but I repeat to you that the budget of the National Heritage Board has increased over the years. I also stressed some time ago that, from 2015 until today, in these seven years, the budget of the National Heritage Board has increased twice. I'll give you numerical examples. The budget of the National Heritage Board was 3.2 million euros in 2015 and 7.5 million euros in 2022. Of course, there's been a lot of talk about staff here today. Human resources expenditure in 2015 was EUR 947000 and this year is 1.9 million, i.e. very roughly EUR 1 million from 2015 until today. Of course, this million has not only been spent on people who were in office in 2015 when there were 49,5 seats. In May 2022, 70 people will be employed. But before the redundancies mentioned here, the reasons for which we have talked today, 74.5 people were in employment, i.e. compared to the budget for 2015 for 2022, there are 3.2 million versus 7.5 million and 49,5 jobs versus 74.5 jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U245	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U246	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You were talking about the budget. Do you already have plans with which numbers to go to budget negotiations in the field of heritage conservation in the autumn? The renovation of heritage sites is known to be more expensive than the renovation of conventional buildings. Looking at the increase in construction prices, what's going on in the market, you must have a very good plan. Have you started to think about it yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U247	Thank you. Yes, of course, in these categories, which concern the budget for next year as well as the longer strategy, we have begun our reflections. It is true that your point is that the situation on the construction market is difficult, that prices are expected to be serious by tomorrow and that these prices will change every day. As for the reconstruction, restoration, reconstruction of the heritage, yes, it is even more expensive than normal conditions. What are these numbers going to be? I can't tell you that today from the remote. This depends very much on the situation in other areas of the Ministry of Culture. In addition to heritage, architecture and other heritage, archaeological heritage, we still have a lot of different areas that compete for the same wallet you give us here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U248	Thank you. No further questions. Let's go to the negotiations. First, Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U249	Well, we cannot be satisfied with these answers, and I am sure that the historians and the wider public, who are watching this debate, cannot be satisfied in any way. Yes, it is, of course, pleased that you have realised as a minister that this experience of the Port of Tallinn must be taken extremely seriously and that you are dealing with it. It's an elementary thing in that sense. But when it comes to all the hundreds and even thousands of archaeological objects across Estonia, which are in immediate danger of destruction, which have been discovered, which cannot be inverted, which are looted, and found which are destroyed in storage facilities, it is already a more complicated story. In fact, after these answers, there is a feeling that we are back to the very beginning. Let's take it from the top. Archaeologists' joint approach. Yes, on the one hand, it is easy to talk about structural changes in the National Heritage Board, they have a background and all that, but human resources policy in the National Heritage Board would not be a question here. The National Heritage Board or the Ministry of Culture can deal with it as long as it is able to carry out its tasks arising from the law and the history, heritage and nature of our country. That's the question. Obviously, it is a problem when the budget has grown, people have been employed more and more, but there is still this deficit of 200,000, incompetent leadership, all those things that come out. You yourself admitted all these things. Then the question is, do you have a desire to put order in the house or not? That didn't sound like much. The fundamental question is that when we talk about the inevitable need for protection in the hundreds of sites that have been discovered in recent years, but none of which has passed the juniper of bureaucracy, it is simply incomprehensible why it cannot be done. That's what we're asking. You just stated, as a minister, that yes, there are problems, and these are the facts. But that's what we're asking you, that's why we're doing this question to get answers to what your plans are, how you solve this situation, this concern. Now, private property issue. Somehow it sounded very diverse that it might damage private property if we took things into protection without informing private owners, etc. First of all, it is a question of whether this is the threat we are facing now, or whether it is a much greater threat suddenly when the historical heritage is irreversibly destroyed. I don't think there's any point in denouncing the '90s, for example. A lot of current cultural objects have been protected, and I do not think that anyone is trying to claim that some of them are too well protected right now. It's the other way around. If we reduce the preservation of all ancient heritage in places that have not been protected, to the personal responsibility of people, be they private owners, be they detectorists, finders, etc., the question is that, as long as these [places] have not been protected as monuments, the public cannot in any way be aware of this protection value either. I could use some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U250	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U251	In fact, what is most damaging to a private owner is clearly leaving the private owner in a state of ignorance where the place is, but he does not know whether or not there will be protection. It's a fundamental problem. It would be solved by using this law, according to you yourself, a very simple way to secure these monuments by order of the Director-General. But instead, we still see a situation where a study of the Bachelor's thesis on each individual subject must be written, without it there will be no protection. I would like this policy to change so that the minister [kicks] on the table and in the house of order so that all this bureaucratic impulse and these obstacles go away. That is why archaeologists, historians, journalists and others have approached you. Again, listening to the answers to half of the questions gave the impression that the minister wanted to push all the responsibility for what was happening to the National Heritage Board, to look at what was happening somewhere along the lines, and simply to describe what was going on. Expectations are very high. The expectations are that there would really be political leadership to set goals. The clear aim should be to ensure that these unprotected sites are protected, that the findings that are in storage are satisfactorily preserved, so that the historical heritage is not destroyed. This example of Paide Vallimäe is also a sign that it is incomprehensible to have the technology that we have to choose between one or the other to preserve and preserve our heritage. Why do we have to choose whether to come to a school or whether to keep this lime oven? Here we went through this glass floor example, we shouldn't be living in the '90s. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In fact, both can be preserved, we don't have that choice in black and white. It's a very important subject. I think that the government, which cannot preserve Estonia's history, does not respect it, nor will it last long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U252	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U253	I'd like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U254	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U255	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The eighth point of today's inquiry was to write down what I asked. Reminder: "Why have the heritage conservation officials been given the sole power to demolish archaeological monuments, as happened in Paide Vallimäe heritage reserve, where the unique 5-chamber lime oven from the 15th century was destroyed?" First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you. At least when you answered my question, you made a very nice impression. You've done some serious work on this. Your performance and your answer to the question cannot be compared to answering the questions of our Lord Kaja Kallas. Thank you very much. But here's to the subject. Clearly, you report the postulates that the National Heritage Board has communicated to you in principle in response to the inquiry. In fact, the problem is that they haven't given you any real information about the truth. I myself have been actively involved in archaeological excavations at the completion of this school building, or rather in preparatory work, because it is one of my hobbies, detectorism is one of my hobbies, and I saw these processes and field meetings quite diligently taking place there. Of course, it is noteworthy that this school should not have been built there at all, because the Reform Party, led by [tonic] Minister of Education Jürgen Liigi, planned it for the 3rd vocational school, not for the 3rd vocational school, but for the vocational school in Paide, where there would have been a stadium, a gym and all the necessary communications. But, so to speak, the pants were taken over, and there was a monster that actually doesn't fit into this context. Point one. Point two. There was a major violation of the law of heritage conservation. I would stress: the building of a building, which should be completely excluded, violated the Law on the Conservation of Heritage and the Statute for the Heritage Reserve of Paide Old Town. It's a very big problem. In comparison, when Paide acted as a heritage officer such as Karen Klandorf, she was very specific. If a private owner wanted to change the roof, he said the wrong rock wave couldn't be done. That's the kind of bullies that used to go on all the time. But if anything had to be broken, Karen Klandorf gave her free hand. This is where the duality of the state is evident: if a private owner wants something, there is a reference to the law, but if the interests of a party, I would say, play a role, the whole law will be whistled in its entirety. A few more facts. First of all, it is true that this process was quite long, but no decisions were made. They were, in principle, very cleverly hidden in protocols where there was no decision and it was not even possible to challenge them in the administrative court, as they were simply protocols. But all these decisions were essentially made on their hands. When this lime oven showed up, archaeologist Peter Piirits, who then led the excavation, announced on the phone that he was in trouble, a building under the protection of heritage came out. That was the case until, at one point, the heritage conservation officials were present, who offered to preserve the lime oven in a way that would remain under the glass floor, through which it could be monitored. But at one point, all the circumstances changed, and we saw a knock wrecking this unique building. What do I mean by that? First of all, I quote one of Paide's well-known historian Kalle Kroon, who wrote a very beautiful story about it after the article on the historical lime kiln and heritage conservation appeared in Järva's Official Journal. Kalle Kroon wrote: "When I read the article, I did not believe my eyes, for the authors of this article [... * Ulla Kadakas has succeeded in [incredible] revealing himself. Let us quote a paragraph that talks about the value or worthlessness of the lime furnace (Good Minister, maybe you can explain to me this concept. " The discussion led, among other things, to the fact that the information obtained during the furnace investigation was extremely valuable and therefore, as a last resort, the option of eliminating the furnace crow after the study could not be excluded. " So because the information from the lime furnace is extremely valuable, it is not excluded that it will be disposed of! (Hello! The [authors] have shown themselves here as lawyers of the real devil. The purpose of [them] is to destroy everything of value! There is no other way to understand that sentence. Juniper [... ] the article reveals the most cynical nihilism in relation to its tasks, which essentially precludes the nature of all heritage protection. It turns out that the National Heritage Board is a mafia-like organisation where no heritage values exist, [only] its employers are those who design new buildings for the heritage conservation object and all the remaining ones must be removed from the road. So is the lime oven. This has been acknowledged by [they] in their article. " That's what historian Kalle Kroon's assessment of the whole process is. But the point is that, although the Minister spoke here about the decision-making process, yes, it was, but the decision to dismantle the lime furnace was taken on its own. I'm not going to mention that person's name again. It was made as a decision by one person, and there is no authority here. Clearly, this is a crime which is enshrined in the Penal Code and for which there is even a sentence of imprisonment, because archaeological sites must not be destroyed. Imagine if at one point the heritage conservation found Tall Hermann to be very valuable, but instead it would be much better to build a hotel, for example. They're gonna make a decision, and they're gonna tear it down. What right? Minister, thank you very much. I really have a request, please send me this decision, which specifically states who ordered the demolition of the lime furnace. It's not a one-man decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U256	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U257	Honourable Vice President! Minister, thank you very much. It's a big deal. This is serious. I hope that you will get into this, including your visit to Saaremaa, and will see on the spot how important Estonian archaeology is and how important the same Viking ship is, for example, in the context of the study of international history. It is clear that no one else is studying or documenting Estonian culture, history, society or nature for us. We have a constitutional obligation to provide resources for appropriate preservation activities, research. The cultural, heritage conservation and research policy of the Republic of Estonia must make the systematic financing of Estonian studies one of its main objectives. This, of course, applies to universities. This applies to the direction of heritage protection. That actually applies to all of us. We must put Estonia first. I will continue the same example of the famous Viking ship of Saaremaa. I was just talking to the archaeologists who've been investigating it. I was at the event myself, quite a few weeks I was on the dig, recording hundreds of photos and videos. It feels great to go to the store and see that the new National Geographic number has come and it's about Vikings. Of course, I always check to see if the story of the Saaremaa Viking ship is inside. Yes, it is. This finding has changed the study of the history of northern Europe thoroughly. The date of the Viking Age has been pushed 50 years earlier, and no serious source can pass by. Perhaps an appeal to the Minister: during the visit to Saaremaa, take a careful and immediate look at the various angles, not only from a minimum angle, but also from a maximum angle, how to exhibit these findings in the Kuressaare Museum. I'm sure it would be very effective if we could make a replica and it would drive between Salme and Saaremaa. I am absolutely convinced that this will become a attraction and will be seen further away. This subject of ship exploration has not been exhausted. But archaeologists murmured that there weren't enough resources. The main source is the external financing from Denmark and Sweden. Here, of course, there is a burden on educational institutions, universities, but also on the decision-makers of all kinds of grants. The Ministry of Culture has the opportunity to intervene and contribute from different angles. It's starry, but it's how we value archaeology in all of Estonia, without a doubt. No doubt about it. If Lennart Meri lived, he'd be the caller of this Viking ship and the international promoter. I don't doubt it for a second. But we also have assignments. We must hold this tradition and keep the bar where Lennart Meri put the demonstration of our history in his diplomat and politician activities. In the same way, please keep a look at the Hansakogel. That's not the argument that we already have one. Then we'll make an effort in other counties to get it if the Marine Museum can't take another one. Saaremaa Museum... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U258	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U259	The Saaremaa Museum would certainly compete for this. It's even more rare than Fat Margaret's exhibitor. Natural shrines. Much has been achieved with these projects. Keep an eye on it. There's a lot to be achieved here with a few resources. I am very proud that one of the most famous natural shrines in my neighborhood has been marked and protected. Unfortunately, there is a policy of saving in national sciences, although the minister here, on the basis of figures, sort of claimed that the situation was different. You can see the raftering, here and there, but the complaining that comes from the literary museum and archaeologists doesn't match that picture. Perhaps this looks particularly bad in the sense that if there is somewhere in the process of declaring gender neutrality sacred, Estonian history simply falls under the shadow of such foolishness. Detectiveism. Clearly, the problem of detectorism is serious, reminds us of the 19th century, when archaeology was in its infancy, and the nobles and their large peasant teams were simply digging dozens and hundreds of archaeological monuments, throwing things into a bag, and then being examined. It's like we're back there in a circle. There is also a need to increase police resources here. The situation is serious. Our precious treasure finds go to the black market. In the interests of protecting culture, cooperation with the police should be deepened, in any case, and it should be inventive how to create these hierarchys among detectorists. The best guardian of other detectorists is probably one of the professional detectors, who has a proper code of ethics and who keeps others out as a proper environmental inspector. Finally, I would also like to mention the situation of storage facilities. Money has still been asked to make joint storage facilities in North and South Estonia. I've seen these moldy sad museums, too. We should keep fighting here. While we have such proud international discoveries of symbolic value as the Viking ship, routine work must also be done to prevent these more common discoveries from being destroyed. I'll keep my fingers crossed by the minister, and I hope he'll keep an eye on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U260	Atah! Does the Minister wish to speak for his part? No. In such a case, the request for information is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U261	Let's go to the sixth item on today's agenda. This is also an inquiry: Members of the Riigikogu Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets, Ivari Padari, Riina Sikkuti and Helmen Küti submitted an inquiry on 5 May to the Ministry for legislation in accordance with the competence of the Ministry. The number of the inquiry is 136 and Riina Sikkut is the representative of the heirs. Please! But the answer is Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U262	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice regarding the Ministry's legislative competence. The basis is Harju County Court's decision to fine Express Media and two journalists for reporting money laundering cases. Since this decision is so extraordinary in Estonia and has led to a very sharp public debate, it is high time that this debate reached this Chamber as well, as § 214 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been reached and whether there is any need to change the legal space. This is undoubtedly Parliament's competence and I therefore really hope for a lot of questions and a meaningful debate. After all, it is a principle in every area that freedom can be as much as possible that only the necessary limits must be set. It is exactly the same with the disclosure of information collected by the public sector, the disclosure of information collected for public money, as well as in criminal proceedings. There is a very strong public interest in what crimes have been committed and who are accused. This has been explained by both the former Attorney General and other people with legal education in the media. The question is where to draw these boundaries. Indeed, § 214 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in its explanatory memorandum has so far not been intended for journalists, but for people who are exposed to the proceedings and who have the opportunity to disclose the facts which have become known to them. It would require permission from the DA's office if they did. So far, this paragraph has not been applied to the press, yet it has been implemented for the first time in this way. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister of Justice. We are asking about the activities of the prosecutor's office: what good was the prosecutor's office defending, what is this public interest? Does the Minister see the need for legal changes? How can there be only curiosity about such a really big money laundering case, and also of international importance, and do not have public interest aspects? How can the personal fine of a journalist really discourage investigative journalism? How can the independence of the prosecutor's office be balanced, whether, for example, clarification should be given to Parliament's special committee on such cases? These are the questions we are addressing to the Minister. Furthermore, how much should be regulated and how much should be done in cooperation and common sense? This also concerns other issues, such as the regulation of lobbying or the declaration of economic interests in the framework of changes to the Government of the Republic's law. We see that you can turn off more of the screws, you may require more detailed regulation, disclosure, registration, but in the end it is always possible to miss it. In fact, good cooperation and common sense apply to all activities where there is a conflict of interest or where corruption is possible, but also to the disclosure of material concerning criminal proceedings and criminal investigations, as here too. Finally, when something starts to open up a debate in public with a big bang, there's always a longer story back there. The prosecutor's office has also had previous contacts with these specific journalists. No doubt, all of us may have unpleasant contacts with the press and would like to have more control over what is, how, and when will be made public. But this human desire must be overcome in order to understand what the role of the press in a free society is, how it helps us to run the country democratically and what the value of its disclosure is. This is the debate I hope to have in this Chamber now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U263	Inquiries will be answered by Minister of Justice Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U264	Mr President, honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber! Freedom of expression, including freedom of expression in the press, is essential in a democratic society, it is a guarantee of that and it is certainly essential. This is one of the reasons why there is such a principle in Estonia, as in other countries, that journalists can protect their sources and cannot be punished for hiding them. It has to be acknowledged that at least in Estonia, but certainly in other parts of the world, the press has been very passionate about this freedom, or the protection of its sources. I think it is extremely important that this remains so in the future. In this sense, Estonia certainly does not need any change. It is certainly also very positive that disputes concerning the press are mostly settled in Estonia in a press council, which is not a judicial institution. It is likely that the parties are not always satisfied with the solutions, but are generally accepted. I think that the authority of the press council is one of the reasons why there are few, very few, cases in Estonia, one of which is the press. But there have been, and probably there will be. I bring in this aspect that our constitution, as it does in many other countries, gives everyone the right to apply to the courts for the protection of their rights, without distinction. In fact, no one is protected from being sued against him. A member of the Riigikogu, a member of the government, may be brought to justice for certain crimes. There are procedures. I think this is one of the values of a democratic society that we certainly should not allow and plan to be broken. We must not create such people, groups of people that we cannot go to court for. There is one exception. We assume that the people we are going to court against, who we are bringing to justice in various processes, such as criminal proceedings, are well-informed, they understand what is going on. Here's where the border is. But that means the opportunity for journalists to get caught up. However, there is one aspect that has been said more recently, perhaps not so much in Estonia, but because of this case, this issue has risen a bit. This is a question of malicious, so-called strategic action, the aim of which is not to obtain justice, but to intimidate someone, to impose a burden on him, to impose a financial and time burden, or essentially to appease this person. This is certainly not just a matter for journalists, but a wider problem. This is one of the topics that our Estonian society should deal with in the next few weeks. On Friday, I sent the idea of a European Union initiative to the coordination circle, which is about malicious action. I look forward to feedback on this, meaningful feedback on these ideas and ideas that could still be made. Estonia has done quite a lot, by the way, and it stands out positively in this respect. I will try to answer the more specific questions that were in your inquiry. But I would like to stress once again that I am not going to dissect a particular case, although I am sure that these answers will, in a certain sense, push it. The first question: "Which good did the prosecutor's office defend in this case may not be understood in the context of cases similar to those of the prosecutor's office itself being presented to the media with much greater suspicions and not proved at a later stage. Do you think that legal changes are necessary here so that the rules apply to everyone in the same way? " As I said, I do not comment on a particular case and ask the prosecutor's office, they know the details. They can explain why, how, and exactly what it was. I may be able to bring here some background from which the legislation has been based and which is also evident from the electronic archives of the Riigikogu, in particular from the explanatory notes and protocols of the drafts. As Riina Sikkut pointed out, § 214 deals with the issue of leaking. I hope you all understand that an investigation of a possible crime cannot take place under conditions of absolute disclosure. There are a number of reasons. Perhaps a few of the most important things are the presumption of innocence, i.e. when all these ideas come out that who could be guilty of one thing or another will inevitably get the reputation of a person in public. That's not fair. The interests of investigation too: it turns out the order in which something is done, what the results are, it is certainly important, because potential criminals, if there is an investigation of a crime, should not be able to hide, destroy evidence or do anything else. It is certainly also a matter of court interests, so that the trial is fair and fair. We usually rely on the fact that the Court hears the arguments mostly not in advance through the press, but in the process. However, of course, it makes sense that people are interested in certain cases. The publication of information on such cases of public interest is fully justified and, on a number of occasions, necessary to avoid undue speculation, conjecture and malicious opinions. I am sure people are also interested when we talk about some important [cases], especially when it comes to crimes, whether it is being dealt with and how it is progressing. It's important to the public. The three aspects I mentioned are the result of the above. With regard to all information disclosed on the progress of the investigation, it should be considered very precisely where the limit is to be disclosed and not to be disclosed. Obviously, I understand you've also read this section 214 and the explanatory statement back there. That's exactly what it does, not just this one paragraph, but the other sections, right? What's in front and behind? Perhaps the question is who will decide when and how the procedure will be conducted. The fact is that the parties to the proceedings who are involved in the proceedings in different ways are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. If you read this section and, in particular, paragraph 3 of this § 214, then it is not as unambiguous as it says: and others or not involved. In short, he expands it quite significantly. Now the question is how to interpret it. Since it has been used little in court proceedings in criminal proceedings, the practice so far, for more than ten years, has been that it has not been applied to journalists, but, as the judge has explained today, it is unclear. Should I make a difference? When this dispute finally reaches the Supreme Court, for example, I would point out that the Supreme Court's decisions are also legal. As there is a dispute, we do not know what the Supreme Court's decision is. The decision of the Supreme Court may be such that there is no need to amend the law that it answers what the Riigikogu once thought, I suppose. I wasn't in the Riigikogu in 2011, so I don't know. If the solution is different, you can really consider whether you need to be specified. It is certainly in the interests of the Estonian state that there should be as little malicious leakage as possible during the investigation. The story of leaking is that it's very difficult to identify who did it. At times, it seems that there may be culprits on one side and on the other side, and sometimes the loudest accusers of the other parties themselves may be guilty of it. So it's worth being careful about that. But it is certainly in our interest that there is less leakage, and all the intelligent measures that reduce it are good. The second question: "What effect does the established precedent have on freedom of the press and do you see the need for legal changes [to prevent such cases]? " As I said, referring to the fact that there is no Supreme Court ruling, and this [case] may arrive there, at the moment I do not dare to say that it is absolutely necessary to change something. The impact of a particular case will undoubtedly be revealed over time. The third question: "If serious and community-shaking money laundering investigations are treated as curiosity by an independent authority in your area of administration, do you consider it necessary to better regulate such matters? " Large - scale money laundering cases certainly attract great public attention, and it is entirely appropriate to publish information about them. But as usual, you always have to consider what information to publish, what stage and how to do it. The press has done a very grateful job in money laundering cases. So I have nothing to complain about in this sense; it has certainly been useful for Estonia. If we had, for example, adopted a draft whistleblowers at the time, then perhaps it would have come to the point that things would not have gone as bad as they did. Question 4: "There is a growing number of situations where journalists are personally treated alongside the publication, which may have a dampening effect on the work of investigative journalism. Do you consider it necessary to find a solution to this problem and what are you going to do about it? " I pointed out above that there is an initiative on malicious action, which is proposed from the European Union. Here I point out that many of the steps that are offered there are already in Estonian law. For example, compensation for damages caused by the enforcement of an action, refusal to bring an action and the possibility of non-examination, under certain conditions, where it is evident that the applicant's rights [infringement] are not at all possible on the basis of the facts invoked as the basis of the action, it is clear that the action is pointless and unfounded, in short, the applicant has not been harmed, and other things. It can be pushed out. I would certainly say that Estonia is one of the few countries in which malicious action against the press has not been detected, at least I have not received any statistics. Maybe now, in the last two months, it's happened, but it didn't happen a few months ago. As regards the fifth question, balancing the independence of the prosecutor's office with the need to be prepared to explain the decisions before the special committee in Parliament, I would first like to remind you that the Prosecutor General reports every year to the Constitutional Committee on the activities of the prosecutor's office in accordance with the law. Riigikogu committees have very wide discretion to invite the heads and representatives of institutions to their meetings on a wide range of topics. So I think that the Riigikogu still has a lot of opportunities to discuss, discuss and decide what to do and how to do these issues. However, if the Riigikogu finds further that it needs more legislative rights, then this possibility also exists without doubt. Thanks for me!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U265	Now the questions. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U266	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I fully agree that it is not our intention to discuss a specific case here today and to dissect its contents, but the precedent has been established. Actually, if you don't want to talk about a particular case, we could talk about anything else, even a fictional case, but the situation is important. I understand from your speech that you will not take any positions until the Court has taken its decisions. But in my opinion, the act has already been done and the trail has been left, and the effect has been. Politicians don't always have to wait for judgments. If we see that there is some kind of impact, a negative effect possible, and if we feel that way, then we should act to prevent the following situations. I'm going to ask you for your position. Do you, aside from this particular case, basically see somewhere around here a problem and the need to act or not at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U267	Thank you. I would stress that, since this is a single case, no matter what I say, you can take it right on top of it and next put forward [the plea] that the Minister will intervene in the affairs of an independent body, so please submit your resignation. So please don't make me say such direct connections. What I can basically say is: every time you have to consider what circumstances and what information must be disclosed. The public has a legitimate interest in getting information about certain big things. What this particular moment is, what information must be disclosed, it depends on the circumstances. In fact, there is now a dispute in court as to whether this was the right time, whether the information was limited or not, and whether § 214 is sufficiently clear and how to interpret it. My personal view is that we have to deal with the minimum number of leaks that we have. That's the principle. The defendants, the investigators, the prosecutor's office, and so on have been accused. It should be as short as possible, and the best thing would be, of course, if it weren't at all. I'm not naive enough to think we can handle this very easily. But on the other hand, it's certainly important that the press has source protection. That's something to think about. Somewhere, as Riina Sikkut said earlier, there is a certain limit that should be avoided. In my opinion, the Estonian press has handled this border quite well. As I said, there have occasionally been debates on various issues in the press council, these things have been resolved well or badly, but let us say that these solutions have been respected. So this thing works. Perhaps in this case, it is unexpected and this discussion must be conducted. I don't know the details, I just don't know. That's why I'm saying this thing, these details need to be clarified by the DA's office. They're probably doing it, they've been trying to do it, and they've been trying to explain why anyway. I hope that we will find this reasonable balance in terms of publishing information that is important and which is not. As far as I know, the press has been able to reach an agreement with the investigating authorities in the past few years, all of their investigators, once they've gotten God knows where. For example, information will not be released today, but in two or three days, when certain things have been done. I always like situations where people rationally resolve the issues at issue. But sometimes it doesn't work. They go to court, and that's what courts do to settle such disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U268	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U269	Thank you. Madam Minister! This is a complex issue, where there really is a very slippery or very thin ice, where the public interest is satisfied and where, for example, the defence tactics of one party begin. We've seen what's happened over the years. You spoke of such a thing as malicious action, perhaps even talking about strategic action. Why don't you say a few words about what this is? Is this regulation of malicious action purely a national issue, or is it something to do with European Union law? I've never heard that term in myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U270	Thank you. In other words, the English term is replaced by "SLAPP' or "strategic actions against public participation'. It is an English name, in Estonian it is also called a silence appeal, a malicious complaint. Now it's a situation where the bad thing has a lot of names, not a good thing. This is a situation in which people can be very different people, journalists, simply civil activists, politicians, come to the public with information about various things that seem unpleasant and bad to anyone and which they want to hide. In order to silence people, they will be charged with different kinds of accusations, they will be prosecuted on random subjects, accusing them, for example, of publishing data, defamation, etc. The aim is that if there are many different types of actions, the person does not have the time or financial resources to deal with what he is dealing with. Sometimes it scares people, and they say that if you don't, I'm gonna be fine. Unfortunately, there have been cases in Estonia, though not against the press. In Estonia, as I mentioned, there are certain mechanisms to combat it, which means that in courts such actions can be rejected, which are obviously malicious and unsubstantiated. There are also, as I mentioned, a number of reasons for which there can be rejected. Guarantees are also required. For example, if a person is harmed by an action, he shall make good the damage and, if the action is dismissed, the costs of the proceedings shall be borne by the applicant. So there are measures like this. But undoubtedly, people need to be enlightened in this sense. It is a national matter for each Member State; it has done these things differently. During the winter period, there was a meeting of Justice Ministers. In Estonia, I dare say, the situation is quite good in that sense. In other countries, these things are often more complicated. For example, the most famous story is with a Maltese journalist who was finally killed and who had 40 cases up at the time. The legislation simply did not allow it. Malta has improved these things a little and done the methods. Countries have dealt with these issues very differently. It was also a question of using this kind of thing to sue a person in another country. If it has [cases] in different countries, it will be more costly and confusing. Such a thing is being tested. This is where the European Union can intervene if they go into cross-border affairs. Internally, you can't, but naturally, let's say it's an exchange of information, an exchange of best practices, and that's what we could do and discuss. It seems to me that Estonia has a relatively modest awareness of the opportunities that we can do. With regard to this directive, as well as the recommendations of the European Commission, which go hand in hand with it, we would expect opinions from the various parties, so that what could be done and how could be done. It is not just about the press, it is really a wider issue. The purpose of malicious [action] is silence, let's say, intimidation, and that's why it's called malicious. Strategic [is called] because it makes it a greater goal to find out [other] things, not the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U271	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U272	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister, I think I've been in politics for the last six years, before that, I've been in communication for over a decade. I can tell you about the prosecutor's office under your command. If you read the Estonian Express and other Estonian media publications, you will see that they are full of stories based on file material, listening protocols, literally passing on conversations that are absolutely not relevant, which are just fun to read, but which are not all supposed to be public at all and which are leaked from the same prosecutor's office that you are defending so much right now. I'm sorry, this facility isn't leaking like a sieve, it's like a gymnastic ring trying to carry water. How do you comment on that? Do you think, for example, that there may have been a certain effect in this case, for instance, that journalists have become accustomed to producing papers from the prosecutor's office, like Vändra's lumberboards, and that they can be published completely freely, because nothing has happened so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U273	Thank you. You were very bold to say about me. The question is, however, that if the data was leaked and we do not have any concrete information about who leaked, who did it, it is very difficult to tell who did it if it has not been proved. If it's proven, it's really clear. Let's put it this way, I've heard them, too, and I've heard them say who, where, and how. Well, from history and from the experience of other countries, we know that there may be policemen, experts, witnesses, including those accused, lawyers, etc. If we cannot tell who specifically has done this, there will be speculation. It stays up, unless there are facts, it is not verifiable. I wouldn't dare say [others]. It's a hypothesis. Maybe this hypothesis is true, maybe it isn't. I don't dare say it because sometimes the objectives of leaking are rather strange. So maybe one solution to this is if we can switch to more digital procedures. There will always be a trace of the digital material being accessed. Then perhaps the temptation will be reduced for different individuals, wherever they are working and how they can access these materials, to disclose them. There are different ways. But the fact is that there have been leakers everywhere, and I do not dare say that there is only one institution in Estonia that is leaking. I ask for this approach [not to be used], because the experience of other countries says that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U274	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U275	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm completely opposed to my penguin. In my opinion, in this case, the journalists themselves have confirmed that no, they have not seen the full text of suspicion, the information they have disclosed is true, but it is based on public material and public sources. So there is nothing to suspect about leaking the prosecutor's office when we are talking about this particular decision to fine journalists, which has caused a lot of resentment. But, frankly, I'm somewhat surprised at such categorical statements about leakers. You said that there should be as little leakage as possible, that leakers should be identified, that a leak should be punished, not a data publicist. That the aim is malicious can be considered by the press or the journalist. Really, there can be common sense. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But there is no way to deny that a person feels that it is fair to disclose this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U276	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U277	You've also brought in this hall a breach reporter protection law, where we don't want to put a sign of maliciousness on the leak.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U278	It's been a minute, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U279	Okay. Thank you. It's important not to confuse things. In the case of leakage, I am thinking about people who have access to research materials for various reasons, and there is also a prohibition in the law not to bring them [materials] to the public. For three reasons: presumption of innocence, interests of investigation and interests of trial. These are the reasons why this has been proposed in different cases. I'm not talking about a particular case. I really don't, I don't know where, what, and how, exactly what these circumstances are, this is currently the subject of litigation. Let's just say you have to make a difference here. The press is likely to get their materials through someone. I don't know, directly or indirectly, somehow he gets these materials, maybe really get to public or different places. Please use them, I'm not saying they can't use them, absolutely not. The question is that those people who, because of their work, have access to the materials must not [disclosure]. We have materials for official use, but even more so, we have a state secret. When a person receives state secrets, he must not disclose it, there are very strict restrictions, there are very clear penalties. This § 214 and the other related sections are dealing with exactly the same thing. It's material that shouldn't be delivered to the public, but he's somehow gonna get it. With regard to state secrets, things are, of course, even clearer and more straightforward. It is also well known with state secrecy that if it comes into the hands of a person who should not have had it in his hands, that person should return this material to the appropriate institution, to bring it right to the defence police, or, say, to be held liable for possession of it. But I'm saying there's a very clear distinction to be made here. If the journalist receives his [information] from sources, from different places, please! But, without doubt, there are places where, as I said, it makes sense to discuss and consider what to publish, what not to publish and at what point in time. It's a discussion place, it's always been a discussion place. I understand there really has been a leak, somehow the information that shouldn't have come out has come out. Who has done this, why has he done it? Sometimes he's caught, sometimes he's not. That's the question. I'm not talking about the press right now, the press is kind of another user. Really, in that case, if you're a different user, there are a little different rules. This is often about source protection, isn't it? In this sense, the press can and should protect this source. But the question is that if, on the other hand, it is proved that this particular person, not through the press, does not send the source to know, has violated the law, contracts, in which case prosecution is perfectly logical, right? The fact that someone is misbehaving and the press is using it is not, let's say, the fault of the press, in my opinion. But I still assume that there are different circumstances, and I do feel that the Estonian press has generally done very well. So, well, we'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U280	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good minister! We know that in criminal proceedings it is the principle that a person is guilty only after a judgment has been handed down. Of course, this principle must be respected in order to prevent public condemnation. However, one of the foundations of a democratic state is a free press. We know that the press currently has the opportunity to obtain information on pre-trial proceedings only with the permission of the prosecutor's office. Now it comes down to what I think we've been talking about here over the last three or four questions: leaking and coming out of somewhere. My question is this: what is the position of the Ministry of Justice? Maybe we should make it a little bit more flexible to release information from the DA's office. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Perhaps formally refusing to issue this information, giving up it more reasons, would it be more on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U282	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U283	Thank you. I don't know where journalists get their sources. For example, one possibility is that a suspect or someone else is talking. He's not in the proceedings, but he's got some information in some way. As I said, it is very possible that this source of journalist, in a sense, also violates the law. But for example, the real culprit may go and publicly say he did. No one can deny him if he does. So in this sense, these places are probably a little bit more than we can imagine. Well, it's conversations, isn't it? They're pieces they put together. Journalists probably know how to do it more accurately. I'm not a journalist. The Riigikogu decided in 2011 that there was a discretion and discretion of the prosecutor's office. How the DA's office does it exactly, in what way, it's up to him. It is very possible that they can act the same way or different, somewhere you can talk more, somewhere you need to be more vague, but it depends on the particular case that is being investigated and the particular moment of time. There are probably also a large number of cases in the public, which have perhaps been said more, which have been said less, including because of the protection of witnesses or victims. I do not see a way to say in legislative terms what can be published, what cannot be published, how much can be published. There is inevitably a discretion here, and it also requires common sense in this matter. Well, I guess we'll have to find it. Whether it's always found in the best way, it's a little different topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U284	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U285	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. As a former journalist and investigative journalist, I've been to a number of attorney general's office after another leak, drinking coffee, and asking how the gold came to be, how it went this time, and who should see who did it. I'm not in that role right now, but you're the Minister of Justice. Have you spoken to the current Attorney General about this, to the moon, dear friend, how about where it leaked and why are you going to fine respectable journalists or send a judge?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U286	Thank you. We've been talking and talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U287	Thank you. No further questions, we can open negotiations. Raimond Kaljulaid wants the floor first. Please! Leave the house all right!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U288	Dear Minister, Good fellows! In fact, this inquiry and this discussion here are very interesting and very necessary. Consider that Estonia has had such serious social debates in the past. Remember: if I am not mistaken, it was also an Estonian Express journalist, Madis Jürgen, who reported his car stolen and then drove around the city near police patrols. If I'm not mistaken, it was the 1990s. Then there was a big discussion about whether a journalist could break the law in order to prove something that is clearly in the public interest, that the traffic police were actually after the fine money and that stolen cars were not looking for or not paying attention. There have also been questions about mimicking certain crimes by the media about whether this can be done in the public interest. It is clear, as the Minister mentioned, that state secrets, in particular as regards security, as well as other secrets that the state has, or information that the state has but is not intended for public consumption, are always sought to protect. It doesn't work from time to time. In the United States, for example, there have been very large leaks of data on the war in Iraq. That leaker, a military man back then, had to be in jail for a while. Edward Snowden leaked information about eavesdropping practices in U.S. security agencies to the world public. We learned, for example, that during Barack Obama, a close ally of the United States, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's mobile phone was eavesdropped, which caused quite a diplomatic problem between the United States and Germany. But from time to time, things like that come out. The interesting thing is that the United States of America, of course, if they could get it to Snowden, would probably punish him so far, however, has not decided to go and do anything against the publications that published Snowden's leaked content. At least I haven't heard it, but I'm sure they've made some effort. The Minister said that the principle is very important so that he can sue everyone or anyone. For example, a member of the Riigikogu who is protected from immunity can talk about what comes to his mind, right, slandering, lying, which has been repeatedly done during its composition, and nothing happens. It is not possible to sue because a member of the Riigikogu is protected. In conclusion, as a principle, I think it is very important to understand it. Point one: who must protect this information, the disclosure of which is not desirable, for example, from the point of view of criminal investigations? Of course, it must be protected by the state itself. This is the task of the prosecutor's office, he is in possession of this information [and must] make sure that it is not accidentally left anywhere in the elevator, as he often stays, or that these documents happen not to come into contact with the journalist at some meeting, as they often tend to come into contact with representatives of the prosecutor's office, or that these simple e-mails are sent from a completely official work address as content. The prosecutor's office must take care of this first. If people who have to keep certain information a secret cannot keep it a secret or do not deliberately-intentionally keep it, then, of course, they should be found out what it is and, if necessary, punished for it. But punishing the media for taking advantage of the situation that this information moved, this information was somehow available, in general, I do not think it should be allowed. In this case, there was certainly a clear public interest: a large bank, members of its management. I hope that I can comment on this case-by-case, that there will be no consequences afterwards. Big bank, board members, money laundering. Well, obviously there's a public interest. At the moment, the impression is that since it is difficult to identify who leaked, leaked or leaked, we are fined who did. We know for sure who it is because the article has a journalist's name on it. Such [impressions] of this case will remain. The last thing I really recommend to the Minister: leaks and leaks of information could first be taken seriously in your house, I think. My very long experience in public relations and public relations, when dealing with different companies and other issues, unfortunately, confirms that the prosecutor's office itself is one of the fairly well-educated houses. I'm afraid so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U289	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U290	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here, so I thought I'd do something else outside. But I couldn't help but hear that story. Yeah, this house is really quite a hole. For years, I was the editor-in-chief of major publications, and I also dealt with personal journalism. As I said before to the Minister, I walked into the office of the Attorney General's Attorney General quite often enough and asked, "Hey, dear friend, how did it leak again?" We also talked in greater length, more specifically and not only. I can assure you that there really are serious doubts. I'm not gonna talk any longer now. But look at how this works. Actually, that information doesn't go everywhere. Journalism publications are different, but mostly they go to some places. The Estonian Express has been one of these places throughout the ages, not to say the main places. This has not been the case for all journalists, but for certain people. They are called integrated journalists. Now we come to the so-called 'deep state'. I know what I'm talking about. In the case of certain information, it needs to reach the press, reach it through a reliable channel, and especially in those cases where there is no hope that this will go a long way. Because the press beat is even more powerful than the real punishment. After it turns out there was nothing, you can say that I'm sorry, yeah, somewhere on the little back, there's a little excuse. How is it done? Of course, it's not just someone handing over a document or files somewhere. Also given by walking somewhere in the park around the centre of Tallinn, etc. What is important is that over the years I have observed that this is not all the information that is, but is politically relatively biased, has gone into a single gate or politically very similar, where for some reason it is believed that there are criminals together, although at the same time I am talking about the political community now operating in a single space of time. All political parties have the same funding and the legislator has one. But somehow, there is a great deal of interest in some, and there is practically no interest in some parties, even though they act in the same way and have acted in the same way. So you could think about it. Of course, it's going to take a lot of time to do what the journalists say to hide the ears. Hiding your ears, you heard me right. For example, it would not be possible to tell where it leaked that you have seen this document. Sometimes it is useful to change the document's numbers or other things in order to hide the ears and where this information is obtained. Like Raimond said here as a PR, and as an investigative journalist, I can say that he's not wrong about that. This has been the case for quite a long time. This, of course, cannot be accepted. I have always been disturbed by the way in which certain information about those who are allegedly politically unparketable is disseminated and drawn conclusions. If now come back to this...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U291	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U292	Yeah, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U293	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U294	When you come back to the fact that Tarmo Vahter and Sulev Vedler were suddenly accosted by the judge, figuratively speaking, I'm sorry! Well, then it seems to me that there was some sort of accident at work. Those channels that have worked for a long time, and suddenly one of the self-righteous judges, I don't know if he's come back from his vacations, took such a step. In any case, at least I have a lot of ideas. I can still say that once, when I was the editor-in-chief of the Earthpaper, we were, as incredible as it seems, with the prosecutor's office, so-called friendships, having joint parties, dating together. This was not at all in the last century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U295	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U296	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Some comments based on the replies of the Minister and the debate here today. If you look at this from the media scene on May 4, we can see that Minister Lauri's first reaction was in style, too, that people in one area of life cannot be outside regulation. In this case, I thought that maybe this was a failed statement, but we heard it again in this Chamber, that really, everyone can be bothered and cannot create exceptional groups. You can only agree with that. With me suing, I don't know, Tarmo Vahter or Sulev Vedler, if they owe me debt or if I think they've slandered me, no doubt, we don't have untouchables, we have the rule of law. But right now we're talking about journalists who did their job. Despite the fact that very little was touched on a specific case in this debate, I would point out that according to journalists themselves, information was largely from public sources, was true and they have not seen the full text of suspicion. Perhaps to obtain a personal fine in a situation where there was no really great leaking or none of this was described here, I don't know, a sinister leaking prosecutor's office, it's all the more incomprehensible. So I don't think there's any way to get over or around the circumstances of a particular case. But more generally, the second aspect of this debate was the desire to control or tighten or punish. I understand, of course, that in certain situations it is necessary to check who will disclose what and when. If there have been personal negative contacts with the press, it seems that there is no doubt that these frameworks need to be tightened up. The Minister has told the press earlier, for example, on 12 May, and has reiterated in this Chamber that leakers need to be found, it is necessary to punish them, not information publicists, but leakers, so that there is as little leakage as possible. Once again, there are undoubtedly situations where, as § 214 states, there are people who, by leaking information, violate the law. There is nothing else to do, of course, to punish them. But leaking can't be the exchange of all information between the parties. The fact that the public has an interest, such as in a money laundering case, cannot be denied. Raimond was talking about a case of international interest here, but also in this house, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have the law of protection for the whistleblower. That information about the various offences, the breach of ethical boundaries, comes from internal parties either to the press or to investigative bodies, in fact, is happening. It's necessary in some situations. We do not want the whole activity, with a sign of snitching or leaking, where one party discloses information that is not known to others or that is not widely known, we do not want to lose, restrict or punish this type of activity in any way. These aspects are different. Yeah, there are situations where there's a breach of law, but there's a few of them. It's not like that most of the time. Instead of tightening regulation, it is possible, as I have also mentioned in the introductory speech, to use common sense, cooperation between the parties, rather than lobbying, declaring economic interests. The Minister also mentioned that there are agreements to publicise in a few days' time. In fact, it is the only way to achieve such sensible, smooth, I don't know, public-interest action. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U297	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U298	It is not possible to regulate exactly who can be shown and disclosed to whom and how to declare interests or report exposure. With regulation, with tougher regulation, we can't hit that core. In fact, it is a question of any professional activity, of ethical action. I'm going to bring another parallel because this world is so complicated. In the past, for example, the doctor treated the patient, there was one doctor and there was one patient and decisions were made, and if the doctor made a mistake, the doctor made a mistake. Right now, in medicine, if we're talking about medication errors, it's complicated. Multi-morbid, patients with various diseases who go to several specialist doctors who have undergone complex procedures, doctors, nurses, carers and many others are involved, even in this case, it is difficult to assume responsibility, in fact, the whole team and often the organisation where they work are responsible for the outcome of the treatment. The same is true of the press. Perhaps at one time we had the individual wolves of the press who studied and acted alone, in the shadow of darkness collected leaky documents somewhere, then decided to publish and published themselves. But right now we're still talking about editorial work, planned work and joint decisions, about the fact that a lot of people see the information before they go public. This cannot be about the decision and responsibility of one person. In the same way, we are talking about the media organisation, the employer, who sets out these internal rules, the internal rules of procedure and the division of responsibility, how to strike a balance and where the limits of media ethics go. Here, we are also talking about editorials or media publications, their role and responsibility. So I think we could find alternatives to tougher regulation right now. It is good if it becomes clear that § 214 does not apply to journalists and can only be applied to parties involved in any way in the proceedings who have to seek the consent of the prosecutor's office in order to be made public. But freedom of the press, even if it is uncomfortable for politicians or the public prosecutor's office, what we need to see and when is made public that value for democracy in a wider sense, and we need to be guided by our actions, it concerns regulations, comments to the press or anything else, about what is superior or what is basically the most important, not what we like or dislike, and how regulatory tightening can solve the situation without understanding that this possibility is purely theoretical... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U299	Time, Riina!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U300	... and in practical life, there is very little to see in complex cases that makes something better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U301	Now the negotiations are over. [[A voice from the hall.]] Would you like a minister? Sorry, yes, the Minister is right. The minister only gets five minutes, I can't get more...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U302	Thank you. I'll be very brief about a few things. The leak of information, when a person finds out about something that is being done wrong, when there is a crime or something, is one thing, and for that it is really useful and necessary for the so-called whistleblower bill. Another thing is the leaking of research data that worsens justice, investigation, etc. They're not the same thing, so we have to make a difference. The second thing, the fact is that yes, a member of the Riigikogu is protected in this Chamber, but not out of this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U303	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U304	Let's move on to item seven. This is a presentation by the Minister for the Environment in 2022 on the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" (including the implementation of the basics of climate policy up to 2050). The rapporteur is Mr Erki Savisaar, Minister for the Environment, who would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. As long as he's here, I'll brief you on the procedure. The Minister's presentation is up to 30 minutes, then there are questions. That's an interesting thing: two oral questions can be asked. The negotiations are for the representatives of the political groups and, at the end of the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Mr. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U305	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We all know the difficult situation Estonia and the world are in today. We have been hit by a real cascade of crises in recent years, starting with a much longer-than-expected coronal apandemia, in which we were hit by an energy crisis, and today the security situation has changed dramatically throughout Europe. All of this has a major impact on the economy, as well as on what we are doing, but despite the crises, we cannot ignore our daily responsibilities. On the contrary. However, we cannot say that the occurrence of crises is by their very nature unexpected or that we did not see them coming. In fact, we have even had a solution in our back pocket for situations like this. This has been the case since 1987, when four men, Edgar Savisaar, Siim Kallas, Tiit Made and Mikk Titma, proposed self-sustaining Estonia. We have been moving towards this solution for 35 years, but despite a long run, Estonia has not achieved its goal. Today is not the moment to analyse why this has happened, but I would point out that the very same ideas of self-sustaining Estonia are also being carried by the heroes. But with this important addition: we must achieve independence and independence in a green way, moving vigorously towards climate neutrality. With the green turn, we are solving precisely those crises that have become eclipsed companions of our daily lives. In devising the nature of the green turn, there has been a lot of busy editing lately, but to refine the definition of the green turn, we should focus our energy on the content of the matter. The green turn is not an ideally new initiative, as a result of which we will be doing other things in all of Estonia and in a completely different way than before. Instead, the green turn is that what has been done so far has to be done at a pace, or, if you wish, more turns, and achieve full energy independence as soon as possible. It should be taken into account, however, that we are not starting a clean slate. We have already put a number of good initiatives into work, and the Green Agreement sets out guidelines, objectives and frameworks that need to be taken into account. At the same time, however, the focus must be maintained and agreements must be reached by discussing the wallet. We have adopted the fundamentals of Estonia's climate policy and I can say that so far they have served their purpose. Estonia's total emissions have decreased by 35% compared to 2017 levels. Compared to 1990, we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 65%, including in view of the LULUCF sector. Without considering the LULUCF sector, the reduction in emissions has been 71%. In a number of sectors with significant greenhouse gas emissions, such as energy, transport and industrial products, future projections of emissions have improved. The "Estonia 2035" strategy sets the ambition of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 85% by 2035 compared to 1990, and by 2050 Estonia has set itself the goal of becoming climate-neutral. These ambitions are significantly higher than the targets agreed in the fundamentals of climate policy in 2017. I therefore welcome the draft Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, which brings the document on the fundamentals of climate policy into line with the "Estonia 2035" strategy. It is clear that the centre of gravity of the green turn has so far been in the energy sector, but everyone must contribute to the result. The future, well-being and security of all of us depend on the green energy sector. Speaking of energy, alongside electricity and fuel, we must not forget food production and food security. We must jointly ensure energy security and energy independence from external influences. A balanced and diverse energy portfolio is central here. By combining hydrogen, wind and solar energy, biogas and biomethane, waste fuel, as well as nuclear energy, all of them intelligently, we need to put together the necessary energy portfolio for Estonia, which is as safe as possible, both for the environment and for people. From oil shale we will produce energy until we have found manageable alternatives to energy security and security of supply, as well as environmentally sound solutions for maintaining frequency in the electricity grid. In the case of nuclear power in particular, it is important to map and consider possible risks and to explain them to people. To this end, I will carry out a working group on nuclear energy, which will find out by the end of next year what will result from the construction of a nuclear power plant in Estonia. Then you can make a deliberate proposal to the Government of the Republic, but of course, good members of the Riigikogu, the final decision is yours to make. In addition to mitigating possible new threats, it must be shown, in order to ensure people's confidence, that we are able to cope with the problems that already exist. For example, both Sillamäe and Paldiski must permanently and safely manage the nuclear heritage of the Soviet era. The last example is just one of many, which shows that the Estonian person is the centre of the green turn, whom we must consider first and foremost. In every area, we must ensure that our people live well in the future. At the same time, we must ensure that today people can also build their homes and work in every place in Estonia and feel good and safe. The same idea is borne by the work we have done in the field of the environment to protect Estonian nature and biodiversity. It is not easy to strike a balance between preserving biodiversity and using the environment, but society is increasingly aware that biodiversity loss has a devastating impact on nature, human health and the economy. Maintaining biodiversity is not just an environmental issue. Already a great naturalist and physicist Einstein has said that if bees disappear, mankind will have only four more years to live. At the same time, the world around us is changing the climate that inevitably brings about changes in life. In nature conservation, we need to consider how to adapt to the new circumstances and decide what we are doing, what we defend and who we have to accept, that certain changes are part of the life cycle. Protecting nature limits our other activities. But somewhere, there's a reasonable limit to protecting nature. We cannot stop the natural evolution of nature, and it certainly does not make sense to strive in this direction. For example, in the recent Green Revolution report presented to the government, the issue of nature conservation restrictions being an obstacle to the development of renewable energy, environmental impact assessment and different environmental studies slowing down processes. Here too, it is important to find a balance point in order to meet both objectives. The development of renewable energy is crucial and we need to find ways to do it in an environmentally friendly way. I think it is right to simplify the regulation of environmental impact assessment and to speed up procedures. We've already taken it to work. Each activity, as well as inaction, has an impact. Therefore, environmental impact assessments do not need to seek confirmation that there is no impact. Nor are these estimates designed to make excuses for not doing anything. The purpose of these assessments is to map the impact and provide a solution to which impact is acceptable and which is compensatory. What and how much to do or not to do, these debates and the diversity of opinions have emerged strongly during the preparation of forestry and environmental development plans. However, we cannot go through these discussions without talking about money. For example, the wallet of classic environmental activities is becoming thinner and thinner. European Union support for such activities will no longer be granted. The total amount of environmental charges will decrease and, irrespective of the polluter-pays principle, only half of the environmental charges will be allocated to environmental activities. That's how we find ourselves in the face of serious money problems. We need to decide whether it is cheaper to deal with prevention or to eliminate the consequences. This does not mean, however, that we should build a system that we cannot sustain or which becomes a matter for ourselves. This principle applies both to nature conservation and, for example, to the implementation of water management plans. I mentioned in advance the great role of European Union subsidies in financing environmental activities. The closure of Union grants has hit municipalities and their water companies the hardest. Over EUR 1 billion has been invested in developing the field of public water supply and sewerage over the last two decades. Much of this money has come from external support. As a result, drinking and sewage infrastructure is in good condition in very many areas of Estonia and water services are affordable for people. Unfortunately, only three or four water companies can manage in Estonia without subsidies, which serve larger cities. In total, however, there are almost 150 water companies in Estonia. So one of my clear goals is the promotion of regional water companies. There is still a need to support smaller regions, which require political agreements to ensure funding for the sector. If we want water services to be sustainable and accessible at a reasonable price in 10 or 20 years' time, we need to take decisions right now. As we continue on watery topics, Estonia's sea area and many inland waters are eutrophicated and in a bad state due to nutrients. Most, three-quarters of the total nitrogen and phosphorus loads from Estonia in the Baltic Sea come from agriculture. It is as if two areas of life's necessities are at odds: food security for the population and clean water. Since we need both for life, we must move vigorously towards a minimum environmental impact for food production. We are pleased to note that the new common agricultural policy takes significantly more account of the need for water protection measures than in the past, including location-specific support measures for the protection of surface and groundwater and thereby also contributing to meeting the water protection targets of "Estonia 2035." I fully condemn the war in Ukraine, but when analysing the situation, it can be assumed that the war will have a positive impact on the state of the aquatic environment. We have all heard of an increase in the price of mineral fertilisers of at least five times, which will inevitably result in additional efforts by farmers to minimise fertilisation through nutrients, including by further valuing manure and looking for alternatives. I very much hope that these searches will lead to environmentally sustainable alternatives, such as ash or insect residue. Unfortunately, the high pollution burden on land limits new developments at sea. Setting up fish farms in the sea also adds phosphorus and nitrogen, but as there is already enough in the sea, there are not enough opportunities to develop fish farming. Therefore, if we want to engage in new economic activities at sea, we either have to deal with them a little less on land or even cleaner than we have done before. I see great potential for growth in activities at sea in the coming years. New technologies have emerged that allow it, and there is plenty of space at sea. People want to live by the sea, and it requires that the sea be clean and that people living by the sea have work. Aquaculture is one of the areas which, alongside the development of sea winds, will carry the blue economy sector in the coming years. This includes the cultivation of fish and, for example, the cultivation of shellfish and algae in the sea. The potential of the blue economy is not just economic; growing algae and shellfish helps to gather and remove nutrients in the sea. Economically, growing algae and shellfish in the sea area may not have an advantage over other Baltic Sea countries, but it is undoubtedly an activity that helps to keep the sea clean. In order for shellfish and algae to be grown, it is necessary to build up an appropriate industry, from growing raw materials to end-products. There's no point growing algae and shellfish if we don't know what to do with them. Given the saltiness and climate of the Baltic Sea, it is clear that this sea is not suitable for many marine organisms. In addition to offshore aquaculture, it is certainly worth thinking about innovative solutions on land, whether it is growing shrimp in Värska water, for example. I will continue with an area where the reflection of the entire chain from start to finish is just as important waste. A number of important milestones will be arriving in the waste landscape in the coming years. It is clear that it is only at central government level that we will not achieve the objectives set. Local authorities have a key role to play in achieving recycling objectives and the contribution of local authorities needs to increase significantly in the coming years. There is a need for further targeted development of separate collection systems and options, but also for a sharp focus on regional sorting and recycling solutions. It is also important that the materials collected in Estonia are worthy on the spot. The collection of packaging that has been taking place for years has not been followed by sufficient on-site and on-site sorting and processing. Every year about 20,000 tonnes of plastics are sent from us for processing abroad, so both the work and the material move out of our home country and the added value is not created in Estonia. By the end of the following year at the latest, food waste must be collected separately or composted locally. Unfortunately, we are moving towards this goal at too slow a pace. The goal is achieved by each and every one of us, including you in this hall, and by the local government. We are trying to work together fully in the Ministry of the Environment so that the challenges in waste management can be found in innovative and operational solutions. Biowaste is only used to produce compost, but it also has high energy potential. For example, Maardus is a biogas plant for anaerobic treatment of bio-waste, which is expected to be able to handle up to 20000 tonnes of bio-waste per year. Such a factory would create the prerequisites for us to have sufficient capacity to recycle Tallinn's kitchen and canteen waste. Both buses and tractors can drive agricultural residues and food waste combined with biogas from fermentation, and biomass beyond gas production can be used as fertiliser in the fields. Estonia is not limited to Tallinn, however, and we need to find innovative solutions everywhere in Estonia. I would like us to realise in every age group that food waste is not part of the household waste, but can be made into valuable compost, biogas or something third. It should be noted that Estonia is not a pioneer in this area, and it makes sense for developed countries to catch up in waste management and the green turn to take advantage of the success stories achieved by other European Union countries, not to try to be inventors in all of this jantatical way. I have paid some attention to the various issues of environmental content, but I would like to highlight another issue that brings together all of them and, in fact, all of them. Indeed, high-quality environmental data, on the basis of which it is possible to assess how one or the other action or course of action has an impact on the environment. Data is needed for rapid and targeted management of global crises and disasters. Quality and accessible environmental data are key to managing climate change, reducing pollution and protecting biodiversity and promoting the circular economy. Estonia is at the forefront of developing digital solutions in the world, but this does not mean that we can rest on our laurels. We are planning significant investments in the coming years to ensure that the baseline green turn data and other environmental data are available as open data. The economic impact study of European open data assessed last year that the impact of the implementation of environmental data is equivalent to that of health care and the use of data from the financial sector. The value of global cooperation cannot be underestimated here, which is also one of the reasons why Estonia launched the Global Environmental Data Alliance DEAL (Data for the Environment Alliance) in cooperation with the UN Environment Programme in March of this year. The Alliance, in cooperation with the UN, will help shape a global environmental data policy and work to ensure that environmental data are of high quality and accessible. Thanks to DEAL, Estonia has the opportunity to share our best practices in data and digital solutions and to promote business and climate diplomacy. In the context of international cooperation and partnership, we cannot neglect national cooperation. In the coming years, the main focus in the field of environment will be on how to boost the green turn. We will resolve this issue in close cooperation with the Riigikogu, other ministries, interest groups, partners and citizens. Substantial issues need to be resolved jointly, financial mechanisms developed and new technologies supported and implemented. No policy area alone can be responsible for meeting all the objectives agreed under "Estonia 2035." We must all contribute to each goal. We need to get out of the virvard of development plans and studies and evaluations and get into real action. Green turns are made for people, and that's what people do. One of the biggest challenges facing the Ministry of the Environment in the last few years has been the maintenance of industry experts and good specialists. Environmental and climate issues have been mainstreamed and there has been a marked increase in demand for human resources in this area. It is becoming increasingly difficult to keep experienced people with extensive expertise when resources are scarce to motivate them. At the same time, these issues take precedence and are expected to adapt more rapidly and to develop in the field. The Ministry of the Environment is clearly a bottleneck in the implementation of the green turn, as there are few people to deal with planning, permits, impact assessments and the growing number of laws and directives. To sum it up. The fifth United Nations Environment Assembly, which took place at the beginning of the year, agreed, under the leadership of Estonia, that a clean environment is a human right, which is something that anyone can reasonably expect. With regard to the steps needed to achieve the climate objectives, we must all recognise that if there are no uncomfortable choices and substantial investments today, there may be significantly fewer choices tomorrow and the costs to be borne by future generations will be much higher. A green turn is our solution and our chance to increase competitiveness. Measures to increase resilience to climate change will bring new jobs, increase energy security and create a better living environment for all of us, providing economic security. In the near future, green products and services will certainly be at the forefront of both demand and investment opportunities. So we ask ourselves whether we want to be buyers or those who exploit the market potential. Finally, I return to the idea of a long run at the beginning of my speech. We've all been training, changing coaches, measuring the pace and gaining momentum to meet environmental goals. But like the distance jump, the speed of the race is getting faster and faster before the rejection. That's the only way you can jump long enough and perform a medal worthy of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U306	Thanks for finishing up with that beautiful sports figure! Let's get to the questions. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U307	Thank you, Chairman. Honourable waitress! Actually, it's just that we're stuck in a dead end. The data's on the table. We have the highest inflation in Europe, the highest inflation in the euro area. Instead of energy independence, we would already have flashed our lights if the previous government had not kept 1000 megawatts in reserve. This also led to the purchase of Russian electricity through Finland. It's supposed to be over now. But it's still a dead end. Ten years no windmill parks have been built. How do you see a way out? First of all, we should think about not having to make a package of help every quarter here of a few hundred or 300 euros so that people can pay the bills. It's a dead end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U308	[[Sighs.]] In other areas too, development has not been sufficiently carried out. We've been asleep somehow or hoping that nothing in the world will ever change. Today it is clear that countries will be successful those who adapt to the new situation, who will have the opportunity to provide their people with all the energy that people need, be it electricity, heat or food. Given the global situation, Estonia must, in any case, be able to do all of this with its own resources. We need to find a solution where we are energetically completely independent, able to guarantee the basic needs of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U309	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The truth is that in the distance jump, the right pace will ensure that the jump can be caught in the dark, so that it can be measured. I come to the issue of bio-resources with my question, and bio-energy is this particular focus. In view of forestry policy and all this recent discussion of felling volumes in the same way, in contrast to the fact that the local resource is what must be deserved and produced, we have been clear about this plan for low-value timber in the context of the forestry development plan? In your opinion, have any fundamental assessments been revised in the changed energy situation, or is this being done in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U311	When we talk about forestry, we say that there are very different interest groups and interests in forestry. On the one hand, we have economic issues here, there are energy aspects, but there are also nature conservation issues, social issues, cultural issues, etc. The project of the forestry development plan, the development plan for 2030, which is an impact assessment and which hopefully will reach this Riigikogu in the second half of the year, tells us that we can move towards uniform forest use in forestry. This essentially means that we could turn on the forest as a carbon sequestration machine at optimum rotations in such a way that every year we take maximum carbon out of the atmosphere by binding it into trees, and on the other hand we bring this precious tree out of the forest, putting it into long-lasting products, be it houses, furniture or any such longer-lasting products. There is no doubt that, as a by-product of this kind, less valuable timber remains, on the one hand particle boards could be made, maybe it can also be used in the chemical industry, for example, but it can also be used very successfully for heating, which is clearly a more sensible solution than leaving all this wood simply in the forest, because they are both equal in terms of carbon emissions. Either way, this carbon goes into the atmosphere, true enough, with burning a little faster, but as a side effect, we get the heat we need in the cold winter months to live decently, and the other way around, we can also produce electricity. So there's a lot of ideas. We are clearly in a situation where our forests are ageing, that is, their carbon sequestration capacity is decreasing. We have a quarter of the circa forests under nature conservation, which means that the value of these forests in LULUCF is close to zero. If our forests could otherwise link some 16 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents per year, then due to forest mortality, we have 4 000 tonnes of emissions there, so our forests will link some 12 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents per year. This is obviously a problem for us when we talk about the ambitions that the European Commission offers us during the negotiations, during the 'Objective 55' negotiations, according to which we should accelerate the annual carbon capture capacity of forests by 2.5 million tonnes. This is, let's say, a complicated task. Of course, there are all kinds of flexibility mechanisms and other things, but basically we have two ways of achieving this objective if we also consider that, in addition to the 2030 target, we want to achieve the 2050 target. A little trick could be done in the ten-year perspective, but if we take this longer term, 2050, which the Commission has also talked about, then one option is more active forest management and the other option is increasing forest area. We are not talking about some 10,000 or 100,000 hectares here, which could come from low-value farmland, which is not suitable for woods either, but as a forest they could have some value, but we are still talking about some 0.5 million hectares that could be added, or half of the arable land under the forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U312	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U313	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm also gonna start with this low-value wood. Listening to you, I remembered a few months ago, I think I heard from this remote control that a part of the wood is something that has no other application than burning in Narva boilers. I immediately wondered, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, I got the same feeling when you said people wanted to live by the water, so the water has to be clean. I think the water has to be clean even if people don't want to live by the water. It also has some other value and has a lot of organisms that live there. It was, I don't know, an instrumental or very technocratic approach to everything natural around us. Similarly, we must undoubtedly meet the objective of carbon sequestration within the framework of Objective 55. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U314	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U315	What about the fact that forests are an optimal carbon sequestration instrument? Does biodiversity and nature have any value other than what we put in money and numbers to help us meet Europe's goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U316	Well, in general, all of our forest managers have a certificate that they manage their forest in an environmentally friendly way and preserve their biodiversity. In my opinion, there are no problems in Estonia's forests. Well, biodiversity in the woods isn't gonna get the biodiversity out of there. After all, most of the forests we have are economic forests. We have 11⁄2.5% of the so-called prime forests, where, we really think, no one has gone to manage in the last 200 years, but all the rest of the forests are essentially semi-natural communities where man has gone to manage, including those forests that we have been protected. So I certainly do not agree that economic activity in the forest will destroy biodiversity there if it is done in a sustainable way, just as it is done in our forest. Should we agree on some other goals? Of course, we are also trying to achieve different agreements at European level. But there is a vision in Europe that land use needs to be changed, i.e. that carbon sequestration must increase from year to year, reaching 311 million tonnes in 2030, and that must be done by all Member States, regardless of what they have done in the past. There are those Member States that have simply taken out the forest in a row and have not implemented green measures. There are countries that have been doing this for a long time. For example, in Estonia, we started afforestation 80 years ago, and we are obviously in a different situation than any other Member State. Our forest's age structure is the second. The fact is also that if we do not meet these objectives, if we finally agree with them, but do not meet them, then there will also be consequences that Europe will still measure in money. The money that we will not invest in the people of Estonia in another sector. So in the course of these negotiations, we need to reach an agreement that we can achieve so that the money we have will go to the maximum in the Estonian people, not in the common European boiler.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U317	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U318	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Tomorrow around 5:00 a.m., there will be a [time limit] for the amendments to the Gas Act. Is it true that you and my colleague, Mr Aas, want to make another cluster bill so that Taavi puts the cost of supporting sea wind parks and you add some plastic stuff to it, that there will be such a decent cluster? Is that the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U319	Thank you, dear Peter. Neither I nor my honourable colleague, Mr Aas, are members of the Riigikogu. During the procedure of the Act, only members of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu committees can make changes to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U320	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U321	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister Erki! To achieve this goal by 2050, carbon neutrality, as you said, our transport sector is the biggest challenge. Why don't you say three basic measures to help meet this objective so that we can move in cars burning [some] substances? What are the three measures to make sure we use less diesel and less petrol?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U322	Thank you. Indeed, Europe has chosen the path of having to consume less diesel and petrol. When I look at Asia or America, I see that there are other solutions being sought to achieve the same result. But on the basis of the agreement, you can first use some alternative fuel, be it biogas or hydrogen. Electric cars, too, with every kilometre they move, emit less than the engines we mostly use. Secondly, it is, of course, very important to reduce the number of cars and this is where well-functioning public transport contributes. When we reach the public transport that can be used when it is necessary, where it is necessary, there is no reason for people to acquire so many personal means of transport. It already reduces carbon emissions from the production and handling of these vehicles, because these [common] vehicles will be much more loaded than the vehicles we basically have. So in this respect, we are looking at hydrogen, which will certainly play a significant role in heavy transport, thinking about what our ferries or trains might be driving, or why not buses and heavy goods vehicles. We are also looking at biomethane, because agriculture is still going to continue, there is methane, it could be caught and used as motor fuel, or also for the production of heat in boiler houses somewhere, if it is easier this way. This is certainly also the result of bio-waste. And then public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U323	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It is said that one picture speaks more than a thousand words, and this figurative example of a distance jump, in my opinion, brought together very well the state where we are. In order to get from there an offer of a proper result, which could be the few legislative changes that the Minister, if he had full authority, could make free choice in his field, in order to make this leap and result worthy of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U325	Thank you. Maybe it's not even a distance jump, but there's a triple jump that you have to make these jumps more in a row at the end to get where we want to go. But although the environmental field, like all administrative areas, is directly governed by the Minister of the Environment, there are relatively few areas of life that have been discussed here, starting with this, even in the energy field. Yes, we can contribute a little to some kind of permit processing, impact assessments, but all other decisions come from somewhere else. One important thing that, for example, would certainly help us to achieve the objectives more quickly in waste management would be to give local authorities greater rights in managing waste streams. I do not mean here that they should deal with all of this, but they must master all of this information and also manage waste streams so that they can reach those who can process and re-use the materials collected by species, either as material or as products. Secondly, I would certainly not be stuck in this electrification, which maybe 20 years ago seemed like a very cool plan, but today we also have alternative technologies. Thinking about train traffic, I would be betting on hydrogen trains that are actually in place, do not need infrastructure conversions, this money would get enough trains and in the future the maintenance costs would be significantly lower. Of course, in energy we should think about how we can move faster so that our electricity prices are not so dependent on externalities and CO2 prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U326	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U327	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, The way in which these LULUCF goals were set for Estonia is, in fact, a mystery and deserves a completely separate approach. Estonia is clearly harmed here, and the government must not give up a cent to the wishes of the European Union; these figures are completely irrelevant. But I'm asking you about classical nature conservation. We have, regrettably, a mentality such as to pursue quantity rather than quality. There are also clearly examples where the area has been protected for eight years and then it turns out that the whole range of objectives for which it has been protected have been reduced. And just in this period of protection, this eight years have already decreased. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How can we avoid this kind of shit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U328	Thank you. Well, then, we'll have to analyse these specific cases. There may be several reasons. On the one hand, the reason may be that the climate has simply changed and some species that before we grew very well are no longer growing so well because our seasons are not exactly the same as they were 50 years ago. Secondly, there may have been some alien species that are more dominant, taking over the dwelling and rejecting the species to which we are accustomed. Of course, there may also be a reason that maybe this species lived well because there was also human activity that kept the environment in which it liked to live, and it may not be able to do so well in the natural world without human help. The best example may be wooded meadows, which are clearly combinations that need constant care or shepherding on top, in order to preserve them with the richness that they had there. So there may be a great deal of reasons and it is certainly worth analysing these cases separately. That's what they do. The question is whether this more stringent protection always serves this purpose. We're trying to find an answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U329	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U330	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Erki! What could be the impact of the Russian-Ukrainian war on Europe's natural environment and green turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U331	Thank you, good Leo! As I said, it seems to me that this could have a positive effect on the Estonian Sea, because the fertilizer will no longer come from Russia, neither will Ukraine now nor will it come from Belarus. Fertilizers are no longer available, prices have increased, quantities have decreased and the pollution burden is reduced, which is very positive. Our water is getting cleaner. Perhaps we can then do something more on the sea, for example, to develop aquaculture there. Well, that's half a joke, but the circumstances are that probably such a small positive effect comes from the bad thing that's happened or the disaster, you could say. Another important lesson is energy independence. This is extremely important. In the past, only the Centre Party talked about it, and others didn't really think that we had good supply chains anyway, that the wire would come and the truck would come, wherever it came from. Life has now shown, both the corona crisis and the war, that these supply chains are very fragile and can easily break down. If we're addicted to these supplies, our survival will suffer. So in any case, we need to move towards energy independence. I repeat: not only do I think about electricity here, but I think about all the fuels and I think about food security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U332	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U333	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. In my previous question, I did not say anything about the impact of forest management on biodiversity, but I said that you have an instrumental view of nature. It was more surprising to read and hear from your speech that the development of renewable energy must take place without damaging nature. Is it the creation of an infrastructure or an energy network or something else that does not harm nature? Isn't that a little science fictional? In fact, the fact that we respect nature and also take into account the needs of nature or the activities necessary to preserve species diversity should be elementary, especially in the Ministry of the Environment, this issue I would hope to hear more about the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But, at the same time, in a realistic way, we understand the effects of our decisions, we take this into account and then really make such an optimal good decision. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] But what about not harming nature? Is there such a thing as human activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U334	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U335	Thank you. As you said, we must understand the effects and take them into account. I would like to draw attention to another sentence that I said in this speech that doing nothing has an effect, too. In this respect, there is an impact in any case. Now the question is what effects we accept and what effects we are trying to find in some kind of compensatory measures. That's what we're supposed to be debating, not talking about not doing anything at all. We need all this. We need room heating, electricity and food in the future, we cannot exclude all of this just because we know otherwise that all these activities have quite a negative impact on our environment. We need to find alternative ways of doing this in a way that minimises the impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U336	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U337	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Farmers are now the biggest stone to reach climate neutrality. In its time, it became a fart, and the people's so-called contribution to this fart is about as great as the cattle, but I don't think anyone has that intention. But what about this methane and all that manure that's already brewed here for biogas, how much potential is still untapped?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U338	Thank you. In my opinion, farmers increasingly understand that everything that used to just blow up is actually a valuable fuel and, at times, a fertiliser that can be exploited. They are increasingly looking for solutions to catch it all and make it work in their favour, whether it is capture of these gases or the fermentation of biomass, in order to get the gas out of it, and after the substance that remains, these gases are no longer emitted in the field and can only be contributed to by the other useful substances that we need for plant growth. Will there ever be any other solutions with the species you mentioned? I don't know. There are many interesting opportunities in the urban environment, which are not discussed today, but which scientists have pointed out and also offered solutions to. Very cool solutions are significantly easier to make a skyscraper type experience than, for example, a private one. The volumes are different and the possible solutions are quite different. So let's see what the future brings, but let's first try to do all the things that we know are working on, for which other countries' experience shows that they work, and technology exists. Then maybe there'll be some ideas on how to take the next steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U339	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In today's state, plants and animals really need to move perhaps some 3.5 kilometres over this eight-year period in order to maintain their living conditions in the climate change conditions that we were talking about. But my question is about biodiversity. Indeed, it is said to matter to the people of Estonia more than the European average to ensure that biodiversity is preserved. In order to do what we know is working, scientists say that 30% of the sea and land should be protected and that there can be virtually nothing to do that would have a negative impact on biodiversity. So, what's the deal with this for today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U341	Thank you. There is no such direction that we take 30% of the land and sea and let's not do anything there. There is still talk of 30% where there are certain environmental, biodiversity-enhancing measures. There is no full agreement in this regard, which areas we then consider and which we do not take into account. Yes, if we take these strict protected areas, we must have had 23 percent of the land and sea combined, if I say so now, somewhere in the area that we have been protected under the Nature Conservation Act. But we still have a lot of restrictions that can contribute to biodiversity. Perhaps the best example is the green corridors that we are trying to create throughout all municipalities and which are already in over 50% of Estonia. We're gonna put shoreguard restrictions in here, put flood areas, road defense restrictions, sanitary zones. We have many of these restricted zones, all of which have a positive impact on biodiversity. So Estonia certainly does not have any problems filling this 30%. I think we should agree how far we're gonna go with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U342	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Recording technology is of paramount importance in the context of green energy. In your report, you actually mentioned a recording context, the hydrogen's so-called road map. Energy Commissioner Kadri Simson has said that Estonia is planning to invest 50 million euros from the recovery fund in creating a complete green hydrogen chain. Has this process started? What phase is it in? Who in Estonia is responsible for this particular development? I understand the government and the ministries, but do we have some sort of consortium with our research partners, or are we involved internationally in some way? Why don't you give me a little light?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U344	Thank you. This particular funding comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Since this recovery facility has not opened up in general, these measures have not come up in detail either. But I very much hope that this money will be invested in a targeted way and that the entire chains with production, distribution, gas station network and consumption will be solved in such a complex way that a small operating circle or chain will already be created, that it will be done and that with this funding, which obviously includes private capital, the primary gas station network will be able to cover the whole of Estonia. I mean, there's a lot of thinking going on about what you could do once those money opens up. But here, you might want to think about the barges. Ordering one ferry is in operation, it comes with hydrogen capacity. I hope that by the time it's finished, there's also the technology to actually start it up with hydrogen. Or, let's say there's technology, but then we'll put it in there. This would also partly address the problem of connecting solar parks [to the grid] in West Estonia. Our electricity grid is not capable of receiving all the solar energy that the developers there want [to produce]. However, we would be able to produce hydrogen from it on the ground, which could be used by both the barges and, for example, local bus traffic and perhaps something else. These volumes are quite sufficient for this purpose. It's on the island side and on the mainland side. Secondly, you might think about trains, such as in Viljandi and Tartu, trains could drive hydrogen in the same way, perhaps long-distance buses. I think we can find a solution in this regard for both Paide and perhaps Kohtla-Järve, so that there would also be some place where hydrogen could be refueled. This would certainly provide a framework for ordinary people to have a reason to buy a hydrogen-powered car, because it is possible to refuel this fuel across Estonia and the range is sufficient. At the same time, the first project is already underway. I hope that in a few years' time, there will be hydrogen-powered taxis in Tallinn, which will be put to work with the first 5 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U345	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U346	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, In 2004, when Estonia joined the European Union, a commitment was also made that 2000 dense settlement areas would be transferred to the central water and sewerage system. A considerable amount of this work has been done, as has some support from the European Union, but there is still a lot to be done. Now the state is quietly pushing for this responsibility for the municipalities, who, I dare say, do not have these resources, in essence do not. How can this problem still be addressed so that the commitments made to Europe can be met, on the one hand, and the natural environment can be protected and preserved, on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U347	Thank you. I now do not understand what obligation we are very much pushing for local governments. After all, this is a common interest for all of us. If this obligation requires work with people, then municipalities are the closest to people and it makes the most sense that local governments do it, not send orders and responsibilities from far away. If we look at the waste sector, there is a clear principle in the waste sector that the polluter pays. After all, municipalities can ask the polluter for all the resources needed to achieve all the objectives that we have taken: to have the materials collected, sorted and recycled. In this respect, I think the municipalities are in very good shape. We just need to have a little discussion about what sensible solutions are. Now on the side of the water companies. One debate is already in the Riigikogu, you are discussing the law on public water supply and sewerage. Certain mechanisms have already been put in place to make water companies stronger. Perhaps it is worth writing something more into it to help [add] this strength so that they build up their strength over the years to make these future investments, or at least to be financially viable in the eyes of the banks, so that they can borrow from the bank when the time comes. Secondly, it is certainly worth increasing these water companies, which increases their competence and reduces their overall costs. I guess there's more to it than that. But it is also quite clear that we need to think about such solutions so that we can manage our own finances without being supported by anyone on our side.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U348	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U349	Thank you, Mr President. Good Erki! I'd like to clarify my question a little bit more. I was trying to figure out what the carbon emissions of one month of this war would be. Let's round up all the tanks, the armored tanks, the planes, the ships that they're spending, we'll think about the fuel storage tanks that are being destroyed. For example, only Krementšuk, which has one of Europe's largest oil refineries, was likely to burn several hundred thousand tons of crude oil, fuel. On one of the fuel trains, we're thinking about a drone strike at 50 x 50 tons. At least 18 locations have a damaged fuel storage facility that's burned down. Have any environmental people or agencies in Europe tried to assess how this will affect CO2 balance in Europe at all? It's supposed to affect you. I've been looking for this information, but I haven't found it anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U350	Thanks, Leo! I understand that this easy joke that the war has a positive impact on Estonian water did not work out well. I'm sorry about that. War is ugly, it has no positive effect whatsoever.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U351	Dear Minister, Now, thank you for your presentation, thank you for your answers. No further questions. Thank you for the great kindness of asking me two questions! Let's move to the negotiating round. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Andres Metsoja, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the Riigikogu speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U352	Thank you, Mr Jüri Ratas, President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister Erki Savisaar! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber to talk about a really big challenge! This challenge doesn't turn out by itself, it's gonna take a lot of effort. This effort, both globally and within Europe, has probably all clearly noticed, until the little kids on the school stand, that something is changing in this world and that is not the way forward. Perhaps the greatest teachers in this context all of us adults are our own children, who exhort, who draw attention and who teach to see this world in a new way. I had a good opportunity last week with my colleagues in the Baltic Sea to discuss precisely the same issues, on the one hand, biodiversity and, on the other, economic activity as such. Emphasis has always been placed, regardless of the speaker, on the crucial importance of considering one or the other development. Every cut we make today in this situation where we are facing the challenges of our planet and climate is all the more painful if we make the wrong decision. On the other hand, it was precisely the issue of the sustainability of people that was mentioned. Here today, too, part of the minister's presentation was that man needs a clean living environment, nature needs it the same way, but man is a part of nature. On the other hand, a person also needs different services, infrastructure. In the Åland archipelago, for example, the Finnish state has launched a pilot project to explore these communities from the communities in the archipelago, and it is very expensive for the state to maintain these communities, if so to say, the expectations that, when it comes to, for example, the Botnia wind farm, what is the expectation of this community, whether this population can exist there and what these challenges are, and what competitive advantage this economic activity should give to those people who actually live on the island because they value this natural environment as it is there. This search for balance is very difficult. But the first project was so successful that they already launched the next six to move forward within the framework of the search for this balance. Yes, as we move around Estonia, it turns out, at least in rural areas, that we tend, at least in my opinion, to have similar problems. People often say that yes, we understand this problem, it is then nature conservation problems that need to protect something, or it is necessary to build a wind farm on land or any other public good that is needed to function as a state, as a society. But on the other hand, a lot of citizens... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U353	And how much do you want to get?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U354	Well, three would be very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U355	This is a reasonable sustainable use of time. So three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U356	There, in a sense, it is known to be abandoned by the common fund. I think this is the source of many of the problems of the Estonian state. We should think about it ten times before we do something about public money. If we need a route corridor, an area to ensure a public service or a good for all citizens, we cannot do so as cheaply as possible. Or maybe it's a protected piece of land. Here people's problems are amplified by such abandonment, and a great many of the following problems will be supported, whether in the context of establishing a deposits or in some other subject. This bunch, this ball is expanding and, in fact, we who think that we want to develop this country sustainably, on private property, in order not to pay a reasonable price to a man for this tiny piece of land, we are actually growing a mad lump, which can later be unravelable in a madly complex way. In the context of the whole energy issue, when we are talking about a green turn, we are talking about green energy, I think the overwhelming misunderstanding still relates to the fact that it is precisely two issues that cannot be put together. When we're talking about the sun or the wind, we're not talking about recording how this recording technology is still developing in parallel. Local authorities often talk about the location of wind farms, but do not talk about where this hydrogen plant would come from, for example, or where some kind of battery bank would come from, which could also be used for the development of local industry and perhaps also to create a competitive advantage through somewhat cheaper electricity, be it in the context of network connections and network charges. In the context of food production and the blue economy, we all realise that we are facing the next problem, that the food crisis is in front of the door and preparing for it is a challenge in itself. But in the context of the blue economy, we are taking the same example of the Åland archipelago again. They are very alert and cautious, they say that their decision at the time to allow farms in such an archipelago has led to a wide range of problems. Well, we'll have to learn from it, even though they're in a different location than we are. Finally, of course, the whole transport theme. I am concerned that, for example, we have already postponed the Rail Baltic project and, at the same time, we are bringing more Nordic members to NATO. How is this connection by the umbilical cord in Central Europe ensured? It raises questions. I think it should be a lot tighter than we've had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U357	I ask Riina Sikkut, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. There was someone else at first, but then you stayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U358	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I still start with the fact that a green turn or a climate turn is not in any way abstract or alien, or artificial or imposed, or some sort of regulation. In fact, we all want clean air and water, we want a healthy natural environment. Why should we waste? Why should we waste Estonia's resources? Of course, energy efficient buildings, the circular economy, the use of waste, the use of biogas, this is nothing wrong or artificial or alien. That's the direction we'd like to go anyway. In fact, this could frame the whole debate. There is no need for doubts that sound like we need to do something, whether there is a need to change anything, whether it is costly, what these risks are here. Yeah, we got something to do. We live wasted. We've put too much burden on nature. The second thing to draw attention to and which went through this debate is that the Minister also said this: how forests should optimally link CO2 and we will dim the felling volumes into place. Andres also said that we think, consider, that consideration is crucial so that we do not make wrong decisions. In fact, if we are already in the right direction, it is more important than choosing some sort of optimal path to make the right pure decisions, making these decisions that we are going towards renewable energy solutions in energy. There is no optimal share of wind or solar energy and biomass. In fact, it is rather a question of deciding that we are taking this course and that we are starting to build these capacities. It may have been somewhat mistaken that the development of renewable energy must take place without damaging nature, as the Minister said. In fact, there is a trace of any action; we must be aware of the effects of our actions; we must take them into account. But the fact that we can really float, you don't have to write such a science fiction. However, if you look at the materials prepared by experts in the Green Rotation Steering Group, what comes out of it is what is emphasised is that an energy agreement needs to be made in Estonia. How to ensure both energy supply and energy security in Estonia, there is no correct solution, which is the proportion of gas or biogas, how much biomass, wind, sun, diffuse production. We have to make a decision and make it happen. It is in the interests of all parties who plan their investments, who make their investments. You can't find the ideal. But we can make a wise local decision for Estonia, which all parties can take action in view of. Well, that's the biggest brake right now. Now, from the perspective of the future. Yes, there is no doubt that technology will evolve and there is a great deal that we hope will be possible. But in order to go on renewable energy in Estonia and ensure energy independence, technology exists; it must be integrated. For the whole climate change revolution, we do not talk the same way about the need to make a technological leap. The knowledge, tools and solutions already in place can be implemented and a much better environmental outcome can be achieved than has been the case so far. But there must be a proper plan, and the whole solution must be thought out. Andres gave a lot of Danish examples. That's how... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U359	Yes, please! Three extra minutes for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U360	... In Denmark, in small municipalities, everything is used to the best of its use in the development of infrastructure, heat production and waste. This circle is a whole in this sense and takes into account the local context. We're actually late for climate change. It has been mentioned here today that the effect of our stalling is that we inevitably need to adapt. The fact that we have extreme weather conditions, heat waves, floods and emerging alien species will continue to happen. The question is how we adapt to it, how we mitigate the risks of these extreme weather conditions. It's a task for city planners, it's part of this whole plan. This is what has been done in Denmark, this is what technology is for, but it has to be one aspect for each of our investments, for every decision to consider. There can be no separate adaptation programmes. All the decisions taken at local level and the strategic investments made by the State must fulfil the same objective in order to mitigate these extreme weather risks or provide some sort of opportunity for adaptation. That is what I say, technology is largely present and there have actually been changes. If technology exists, it exists in the market, it is overwhelming, then the myth that was still ten years ago, that you know, we need renewable energy fees, green energy is expensive for people to use it, it has to be paid for, it is no longer the case. Green energy is actually cheap, the cheapest energy. So there is no longer any reason to avoid or restrict its development. Finally, I would like to mention this part of the matter of thinking. In both the ELAK and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have discussed this carbon-based own resource so that, in addition to the level of income, countries will pay to the European Union budget on the basis of their own pollution or emission rates. Estonia does not support this because we should pay 14 million more to the European Union's common budget. I tell you the truth, I am very disturbed by this type of decision that when we shape Estonia's position, we only take into account this budgetary impact. 14 million, that is less than 5% of our contribution to the European Union budget. If we want Europe as a whole to become climate-neutral, if we want to meet this goal ourselves, then it is logical that the polluter will pay. If we are polluters, we will pay. We cannot assume that the rules apply to everyone else, but not to us, if that means EUR 14 million for our budget. So I am counting more on value-based decisions, and let there be less of that kind of penny-drawing for those decisions that affect our future and the future of our natural environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U361	Thank you very much. I ask for Yoko Alenderi, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to speak in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Indeed, nature and the environment are the value that [considers] the largest part of Estonia's people to be important. This is demonstrated by recent value studies. So this is really going to work. However, scientists have recently highlighted the discrepancy between theory and actual behavior, and they are concerned about it. In other words, what is our awareness of the behavioural changes we need to bring about and implement ourselves if we are to achieve results? The program of the Reform Party was written on 15 May 2005 and I did not know anything about politics yet: "Environmental care is a moral principle that is not only detractable to the question of human well-being and natural resources. Mankind is responsible for ensuring the right of life of all nature and other species. " This is followed by a number of very adequate and wise texts. I suggest everyone get to know this very good piece. The Minister mentioned it here too, and I tend to think that Siim Kallas may have a role there. Anyway, everything it says applies today. This can be seen as positive, or the Reform Party has, indeed, for a long time, considered this subject to be very important, but it can also be seen as shaking ashes on its head, because I agree with the Minister when he said that the run has been a long one, but in fact a big leap has yet to be made. The positive thing is that it seems that we agree here today that this has to be done. Indeed, much has been asked in this debate what it will cost. For a long time, I have thought that perhaps it would be worth pointing out what it would cost if we did not make these behavioural changes. For the population of Estonia, it has been estimated that the emissions that each of us generates, CO2 emissions, are 14 tonnes per person per year. Scientists have determined this cost, it is about $3,000 per ton of dollars, the dollar and the euro are more or less the same, i.e. EUR 40,000 per person in Estonia per year, it costs us this wasteful lifestyle. So that's what we have to change. It is actually, I think, quite important that we know this cost, because we are about to reach a point where climate change is beginning to undermine our well-being. Of course, this cannot be compared to what was pointed out by a good colleague in Leo Kunna, which is currently taking place in the context of the war. This effect is probably terrible, it will certainly be counted from some kind of model. But I certainly also agree with the Minister that it has speeded up certain processes that are crucial in terms of climate policy. Personally, I don't think resources are ever gonna get any cheaper. Resources will never be cheaper again because there are so many of us as mankind. Over the past 20 years, we have already extracted 40% of the earth's resources. In the last 20 years alone! Now Estonia, where have we reached in Estonia? The Minister mentioned that 65% of our emissions have been reduced together with the LULUCF sector and 71% without the LULUCF sector. So this means that the LULUCF sector is a discharge. Some data. We're doing pretty well in renewable energy. In the warm economy, we are indeed second in the European Union. There, of course, has a huge role to play in local timber, here comes exactly the same... Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U363	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U364	... a certain contradiction between biodiversity and renewable energy that must be resolved. Indeed, there are new solutions that can link these two objectives. Solar panels, while agriculture, solar panels in moorings, swamps. Obviously, we still need to look at innovation and consider all possible options. We now have a fifth place in renewable energy transport. I think transport is one of our great challenges. The roots of why it is so difficult for us to achieve a reduction in emissions at all here are our scattered population and, in addition to everything, the fact that we have so far not very much directed the population. The settlement has grown where there is no public transport. Even if public transport is free of charge, it will not help if the population develops where there are no public transport routes. However, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the development plan for a high quality living environment could be implemented and dealt with. Let's go. Fertilizers were also mentioned here. Again, something that, of course, is also affected by war, but we really need to look for alternatives. This has already been done quite a lot in Estonia, and it will certainly continue to be done. What about the purely legislative side? Indeed, with the fundamentals of climate policy, we are still trying to reach, before the summer, that we are also formulating the objective of climate neutrality, and the next step, I think, at the level of the steering committee for green policy, we are waiting for proposals on how to set targets and roadmaps on a sectoral basis, on how to achieve results. Socialist Riina Sikkut asked for a plan. I think that this plan is also expected by the sectors with which to work together to establish it at national level. Indeed, I think we still have a country close to nature. We have a very good starting position in terms of awareness of what our behaviour really means to nature. I think here each of us can do much more. As my colleague from the Committee on the Environment, Andres Metsoja, children and young people are very helpful here with their questions, with their own demandingness and with their own behaviour. Also in the economy, I will continue to repeat, the climate-neutral economic model really does not have an alternative if we want to continue as people on this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U365	Thank you very much. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U366	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I just heard from my colleague, Alender, that he wants to put solar panels in swamps and bogs. The painting says a bullet to the head. I love swamps and bogs. If you put them on [panes] somewhere, on the roofs of the houses and somewhere, not the meadows. Hands off the swamps and the bogs! But that's it. Today, in the Committee on the Environment, we discussed where we have come from with energy policy. If the European average for renewable energy is 22%, then we have 30.2%. There are 19% in the majors, Germany and France. That's all I'm gonna say. We are in eighth place in renewable energy consumption. With renewable energy heat, we are the second largest in the European Union with 58%; Sweden is the first. With transport, we're in fifth place, with 12%, Sweden has 30%. We're really 15th with renewable electricity, but actually it's also a high point, 29%. So, actually, it's okay. If you look at the wide world, I will not mention Ukraine and Russia, which are also large countries, and which was rightly pointed out by Leo. All those oil deposits that burn, and so on, these effects are colossal. So, in fact, this whole world-saving thing, that if you don't get 1.5 degrees [to limit warming], then the end of the world will come, and so on from the end of the world has been spoken through the ages, and it's not very wise to talk about it. There is no point in arguing about the need to preserve nature, to have clean air and so on. I don't think anyone's against that. But that's it. So you don't want to panic here. We're actually, I've read these numbers in a very good state. And we'll get to the end of the world in any case before it comes with a 1.5 degree rise in temperature. But, of course, when it comes, we'll all go together, with Russia, Ukraine, China and everyone. If it comes, but it won't. Second thing, the price of greenhouse gases. What has it done? Once, 2010 was 7 euros, 2019 was 25 euros, this year more than 90 euros. In 2019 our brown gold, oil shale, became uncompetitive. 2019! 2008 started to rise, biomass burning and wind plants, windmills, etc. Everything in the right direction. But what did it cost? The first phase 2007/20: 830 million had to be paid in. Phase two 2021 to 2030, it is underway: 650 million. Since 2019, when oil shale became uncompetitive, we started buying in electricity. Step three: an additional 500 million should be paid. In total, it's already going to give us 2 billion to get to the level I called here earlier. But what's next? It's a lot to pay now. We have to pay 4% of GDP from 2021 to 2030, and we have a NATO tax of just over 2%. Between 2031 and 2040 it is 2% and 2041 and 2050 1%. In total, it is 4.5 [billion] for the public sector and more than 12... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, if you don't mind for a few or three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U367	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U368	So actually 17 billion more will have to be paid. So 20 billion is the price of this fun. Let's see where we are right now. We're at war, yes, the oil vessels are on fire and everything else is ugly warfare. But where have we come from? We have reached the highest inflation country in Europe, our electricity is twice as expensive as Sweden, the Eurovision which Ukraine won, the speech is the most expensive in Estonia. Was. Where have we gotten to? Look, two things, gas and cereals are both strategic, one in the energy sector and the other in the food sector. The crops of Ukraine and Russia and what to do with them depend much on the world. It's the same with gas. Can't explain their effects any further. What should we do? This morning, in the Committee on budgetary control, we discussed inflation and its suppression. Indrek Neivelt said directly that the price of the CO2 quota must be fixed at a low level because it is an artificially created commodity, an artificial product produced by speculators. In the meantime, if you remember, the quota price approached 100. But this quota represents half the price of electricity. By the way, you could lift your tail, EKRE has offered these things here, but it's been pushed into the trash bin all the way out of the stock market and the CO2 price fixing. So it's actually a whole new situation. The pandemic's over, the war's started, the heroes are moving. I repeat: we are in a very good condition, there is no need to frighten anything here that wolves and bears are coming right now. It's not coming. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. As for Erki, the Minister for the Environment, I thought the presentation was a good one, unlike [some]. It's embarrassing, the ministers go to the village to do their own review, some have 50 lines. Erk had a lot longer. Thank you for your good presentation. But don't scare me. Above all, we should be guided by our people and by the specific time we live in. We don't have a war. He's going somewhere. But you don't have to go crazy with that ghost painting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U369	Thank you. Now for the reception. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U370	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, since my name was mentioned, I made a quick calculation. My colleague Ernits here read the numbers that it will cost us to make a green turn. Failure to do so would cost us 50 billion a year in Estonia if my calculation was correct, based on the data of these scientists. Just to be mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U371	Thank you. No further speeches, I will close the negotiations. I would like to thank my colleagues. I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry's office, the good staff for this presentation, which was from the point of view of the Minister of the Environment regarding the implementation of "Estonia 2035." The debate is closed and the seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U372	Good fellows! We've reached the free microphone. I would ask all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Riigikogu speech chair Heiki Hepner, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U373	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Today it became clear that the government linked the adoption of an additional budget to a matter of trust and would hold a vote without a broad debate. This is convenient for the government, of course, because then the budget debate does not have to answer the questions as to why the beauty that has been made for a long time is not so beautiful. According to the Prime Minister, this is a wartime budget, and, oh, my God, out of 800 million euros, 15 million is involved in national defence. The development of capabilities will delay the unknown future, and not a single cent is foreseen in this budget to build up the baseline faster. The changed security situation has already brought more than 2000 new members to the Defence League and is expected to reach at least 3000 by the end of the year. However, there is no additional budget available for training and additional education and training. This attitude, where the new members of the Defence League are put on hold, demotivate them and undermine the image of the Defence Union. The problem is also a very sudden increase in energy prices, which is not foreseen in the Defence Union budget for the current year. If no additional funds are allocated to cover them, then there is no choice but to reduce the number of educational gatherings already planned, let alone increase it. We have record inflation and there is no solution to this additional budget. No solution, no measures to contain inflation. There is no longer a plan. This autumn we will see that the same is repeated as at the end of last year. In this case, how will the government behave? Lowering the EU's minimum levels of petrol and diesel excise duties has been rejected and will not continue to be supported by the Fatherland. But what's the alternative? We can't find an alternative. The reduction from 20% to 9% in the case of electricity, gas, indoor heating and firewood, even temporarily, which, on the one hand, would help people cope with lower costs, [less] bills, and, on the other hand, would curb inflation, is not appropriate. We do not find additional resources for energy efficiency, greater use of local fuel, wood or more reasonable access for micro-producers in this additional budget. The underfunding of higher education will also remain unsolved. Underfunding of higher education, which has become a chronic problem, which has been allowed to be resolved several times, but has not been done so far. Universities have continued to have no administrative agreements with the State, which means that universities will be funded with 1/12 of last year's funding volume. Let us now consider inflation and think about 1/12 of last year's funding. It is said that in the future, when drawing up the state budget and in the national budget strategy, we will take into account their needs and come back to solving the problem. However, this year it would be possible to solve this problem with twenty million, to give the universities confidence and, in the same way, to give the state confidence. These relationships would be normalised and contracts could be concluded between universities and the state. Instead, the Ministry of Education and Research has started to cut the Little Support from Teachers' Leave by nearly a third. For what and where the EUR 57000 saved is planned to be spent, it is not known. Now for this EUR 50 one-off allowance for children and pensioners. We all understand that this is not a sustainable solution. In the case of pensioners, it would be more reasonable to enforce the law already passed in the Riigikogu, which exempts the average pension from income tax, and at the same time, from 1 July of this year, the basic amount of the pension is exceptionally increased. With this, without additional support and without additional bureaucracy, we could meet pensioners, much better and more stable, to solve this problem and to alleviate the cost of living arising from inflation. The Fatherland has made six concrete amendments that will help to increase our defence capacity and help people to survive this difficult time. Unfortunately, the government decided that they were not suitable for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U374	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U375	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, Mr Hepner said what will happen on Wednesday. I was looking for my yellow page with these numbers and changes, notes, but it had been picked up in the meantime and had been replaced by a new so-called table leaf. On Wednesday 8, 9, 10, 11, the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Social Welfare Act, etc., the First, Second, the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act, Third, the Draft Act amending the VAT Act, and Fourth, the Supplementary Budget Act 2022. So-called three warm-up bill and then the old fish itself. And they're all with a vote of confidence. This means that you have to shut up and just vote. The fact that we have proposed improvements, including organisational ones, is an opportunity for the opposition. But we have also made many substantive proposals. At the moment, the government has put four drafts here, three for warm-up and one for the so-called main draft, linked them to a vote of confidence and cannot, in essence, be discussed. These are other readings where many of us could and would have wanted to talk about these issues, but now they are all put in the same pot on Wednesday. Take it or leave it, trust it or don't trust it. I asked here today that in the interest of the matter or in the sense of simplicity, how much can be put into the cluster, be linked to such a vote of confidence. So far as I know, four Bills aren't involved. Can all the drafts submitted during the session be linked to a vote of confidence, be done more quickly, throughout the spring session or the autumn session? But the government simply does not have these suitable draft laws in the proceedings. Technically, you can't. But I didn't get the answer today, how many drafts may be, if everything gets combined, is tied to the principle of take-or-leave. It's a shame. I also understand from the government that I'd like to be quick. There are also clusters, as I pointed out here, that Taavi Aas and Minister Erki Savisaar want to add to the gas law a sea wind farm and some other plastic point. Tomorrow night, there's a deadline for suggestions for improvement. Of course, the members of the government will not do them, but they will find some bodies in the Riigikogu who will do so and will be processed. This, of course, does not belong to good legislation, but what is next to what we are going to do on Wednesday is to tie four different drafts to the vote of confidence, which concern very different things, whether family benefits or excise duties on alcohol, tobacco or fuel, or VAT, not to mention the additional budget, which is largely Ukrainian face, blue yellow colour, and Estonia offers relatively little to its people. All this is going to be put in one pot again. Take it or leave it. And it's up to us to take it or leave it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-16_U376	Thank you very much. No more calls, no more free mike. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Good luck with us and a safe way home!
