ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U1	Thank you very much. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U2	Thank you. You see, good friends, good morning to all the insomniacs here and the sleepy ones behind the monitors when they're there and when they're not sleeping. Interesting thing was, a good Heljo came in here and told me that there's been so much talk about this thing that it's all messed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt. And then he gave his whole speech about the hate speech. Heljo, the hate speech has been taken out, it's not in this law. But that's it. Everyone speaks as he wants and can, because it is our goal here to talk, to convince our partners, colleagues. But, yes, it is quite a mess with this law now, because this bill has passed a pretty good metamorphosis and from the original, let's say, a completely unacceptable draft has been made something that we can discuss and bake a good and necessary bread loaf from it. The former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, said six days ago, well now, probably seven days ago, in the ERR about this bill at this stage, when we had not taken out this hate speech, that this bill was definitely a candidate for the title of the worst draft, as it puts together changes that should not be heard by adding an article of hate speech. See, they're gone! He also said that people involved in legislation live in a different reality. And here he is right. We really live in another reality because it is probably our evil destiny that has put us in this fate. British Labour Party politician Richard Crossman has once defined what political thinking is. He said that political thinking is significantly different from ordinary thinking. According to political thinking, the final decision will be drawn up first, then the argument will be found and, if necessary, codified. Maybe it's the other way around. And that's exactly the problem with the law. First, a final solution was sought where they wanted to be reached, and then they started to argue and codify. And that's where the bill came from. But I myself will say right away, being here as a representative of the group, that we have discussed this very strongly in the group. And the talk of the national conservatives being as if against this bill completely and all the things that are glued to us no! You see, good friends, the point was that this Kört-Pärt shirt we couldn't accept as it was made and offered. Now that he's changed, we'd like to move on, but there are a lot of problems here too. Once again, I must turn to the [words] of the former Chancellor of Justice, because the words he said seven days ago were almost literally, thoughtlessly, in any case, in agreement with the views of our group. So start to suspect that maybe he was sitting behind our screen. But he asked if, according to the current bill, the police would be looking for symbols that support the Turkish genocide against the Armenians. And Rwanda? According to the former Chancellor of Justice, the laws should clearly state that there is a ban on symbolism that specifically supports Russia's aggression in order not to disperse. And our problem is that we've spread out. But of course, this bill is important in itself. Maybe what we're trying to say? Despite the fact that the EKRE is skeptical about this law, we are also sceptical today, because today too, we saw the Minister on the remote when we asked questions and [heard] answers, it was clear that there was still a lot of confusion, but we do hope. We really hope that, within this ten-day period, these improvements and the processing of this text will enable this important law to be made understandable, understandable and clearer in such a way that we can also support it vigorously and honestly. So it doesn't happen that the police... A few more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U3	How much? Three? All right, let's do it for three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U4	So that it doesn't happen that the police become a judge, a semantic and a judge. The police don't have that right, and they don't have to have that right. In terms of technical and practical terms, the rule of law must be written in such a way that the police understand clearly and the people to whom they are applied, including legal persons, understand things clearly. So, dear friends, we must come to a clear wording within this very short time, if we want to enforce this bill, which unfortunately is not yet there. But let's keep going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U5	Thank you. Thank you very much. I now ask the representative of the Isamaa Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U6	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U7	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U8	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Fatherland Group supports the banning of symbols justifying the Russian Federation's war of aggression without stretching. We need to make sense of cooperation between all political parties in Parliament, in this spirit we also agree to unify our next draft, so to speak, and look for the appropriate wording. I am sure that, since the parliamentary forces have the will to resolve this matter quickly, especially before 9 May, that is what we will do. Now some practical observations. It is certainly condemnable and unjustified to incorporate this hate speech draft into this draft. And it is appropriate that coalition ambassadors in Parliament had the sense of responsibility to interrupt this intrigue, this legislative thought crime. Now, with regard to joining, [the] participation in, or support for, the crime of aggression, we are, of course, in full support of the implementation of this provision without delay. We don't have any practical information about how many of these people have gone along with [the crime of aggression], there's a reference to tens of people in the public. Our police authorities have to deal with this. But, of course, this is a serious crime that needs to be sanctioned. I remember that the logic of our draft was that we are, by law, giving sanction to the use of symbols relating to a specific crime of aggression [option]. The government has taken a broader approach to this. I would urge you to think seriously about that. In particular, if the government has opted for a misdemeanour of punishment, our draft also provided for a prison sentence, if there is violence or there is a risk of violence, then here the word 'objective' has been used for misdemeanour. I have now spoken to some lawyers about this word [of use] for misdemeanours, and since this proof is also easier in fact than it is in the case of crimes, I call on the Committee on Legal Affairs to seriously consider abandoning the objective. Proving that you had this Georgi tape, and for what purpose you wore it, is extremely difficult, of course, to carry out additional operations in terms of procedural burden, I think, is not very reasonable. I think that the Commission could seriously consider abolishing the word 'objective'. We spoke and the Minister made it clear that, with these acts of aggression, above all, our focus is, of course, on the acts of aggression that have taken place against our country in a wider context alongside it, and we are now thinking of the acute justification of the Russian Federation's war of aggression through symbols in Ukraine [and their] ban. Under this, of course, as the Minister referred to our history, we understand Soviet Russia's aggression in the war of freedom against us, we understand, of course, the aggression that took place in our annexation and re-occurrence in 1944. Of course, other aggressions go under. I referred to China's aggression against Tibet, for example, and many of them can be highlighted here. Of course, the acts of aggression in the history of the world, crimes against humanity and war crimes, the public exposure that disturbs their society, are also at issue, I imagine, in matters of social concern. The more exotic war crimes that have taken place from a historical perspective, after all, the use of symbols that disturb society in this way does not have much practical significance. Although, I recall, as the Minister said, it will also work on social media. This means that justifications, assessments, the use of symbols concerning social media must, of course, be made clear. Obviously, we are facing 9 May on social media. This means that once we have enacted this draft on 9 May and we see the Russian embassy, with Russian flags, winning our victory in the Great Patriotic War, which is actually a war crime for us, a celebration of aggression, then, of course, it is clear that it will be sanctioned. I am pleased that the Minister also made it clear that the use of the Russian flag, the Russian flag that is currently being used by Russian tanks in Ukraine, is now, of course, a justification for aggression in this context. That's right, and we need to block it decisively. That is what is important now, and here we in the Commission must think about clarifying the explanatory statement once we have combined the drafts, that we want these Georgi tapes, Z letters and similar symbols, pentagons not to be used in our public space, in our public domain. This means, of course, that if they are on cars, much more in the public, on the walls of the house, wherever they are, we will give the legislator clear instructions to the police: in our room, in our public space, in our public space, they must not be in our public. The state of Estonia in such a critical situation, in a war situation, must establish itself unambiguously and unconditionally. And now what was actually a pleasant surprise for me: the Government of the Republic, the Centre Party and the Reform Party finally decided to solve the problem of the existence in our public space of symbols justifying Soviet annexation and war crimes. Here the law clearly states that the symbol of the act of aggression for public display in order to support these acts will be forbidden. If, for example, we take Maarjamäe, where there are dozens of [the symbols of aggression], I am not speaking of grave marks of course, no one can fight the dead, the tomb marks and the memorials of war victims, of course, is a separate issue, they are protected by international treaties, and the universal humanistic concept does not deal with them. But what is now about the victory of the so-called aggression war that was waged against us, in the case of these symbols, on the Mount of Mary, we have tens of them lined up 200 metres away from the memorial of the victims of communism. Now, finally, we can clarify on the basis of this government's draft law on this issue, we can clarify on the issue of the Narva tank. They are placed directly with the aim of justifying aggression. I have here recalled this tank installed to honor the Fedjuninski operation and these [symbols] we will find many more. And now it finally becomes clear: the Republic of Estonia will establish itself more than 30 years after the restoration of the freedom of our country. I call for an immediate list of our law enforcement officers to be drawn up. These [symbols] are generally located either on the land of the State or on the land of the local government. A fine of up to EUR 32000 shall be imposed on a legal person who does not withdraw them. And the state must itself before this law enters into force, because there cannot be a situation that we are going to impose fines on the heads of state and local government, which would certainly be regrettable, I call on the leaders of state institutions and local governments, without delay, to put an end to the Soviet symbolism, which aims to justify the act of aggression or to support these actions in their own time when they were placed in this public space, [preservation] and to eliminate them. I am sincerely grateful to the Minister for Justice for this initiative, for the courage to resolve this issue in a decisive way and at a critical time, the critical situation requires bold decisions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for this pleasant and positive message.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U9	Thank you. I now ask Hanno Pevkuri, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Please! Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U10	Good night, or night, how to whom! Mr Reinsalu is of course flying, there is nothing to say, there is nothing to say. But I don't want to talk about you. This bill has three clear objectives. At least it was at the moment the Government of the Republic approved it. There's two left. But these two are very weighty. Let's start with a shorter purpose or a text of the law that is a clear message for those people who go to war on the aggressor's side. You have no reason to return to Estonia if you are not Estonian citizens. If you are citizens of an Estonian state, you will be held accountable. A very simple and clear message. This is the message that the country must give in this situation when our friend, our ally, is being attacked by a country that thinks the same as us. And such simple messages must be kept. I think that the second simple message that we are actually sending with this draft, and hopefully quickly, will focus on symbols in particular. The purpose of writing this draft was to regulate the use of symbols that justify four generally accepted crimes: crimes against humanity, war crimes, acts of aggression or genocide. And I believe that, in international law, there is no other way or ambiguity than genocide, which is a crime against humanity, a war crime or an act of aggression. The way courts finally appreciate it, of course, is different. In theory, people can interpret it differently in their own vision. I dare say that all four have been committed in Ukraine and continue to be committed. Perhaps the reasons for regulating the use of symbols that justify these crimes are more than enough. And there's no way for the state to say no, we're not dealing with it or, oh, we already have laws. No, we must also say, if necessary, as an educational provision and as a preventive provision and, of course, as an applicable provision, what we really mean. We actually think that the use of such symbols is forbidden. Reading the alphabet is not conceivable. Really, symbols change. Just as, for example, in the Ukrainian resistance struggle, a sunflower has become a symbol, it is a resistance struggle and its symbol. So giving a clear message in this sense is, in my view, extremely important. However, I would like to dwell on what was left out of this bill. No, it's not some kind of legal crime or whatever word was used here. The Constitution is in force in the Republic of Estonia. The second paragraph of § 12 of the Constitution explicitly states: "Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. Says the same thing: "It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between social groups. " I do not count from the constitution that there should be an additional clause. There must be a risk to the life or health of a person. But the Penal Code today says that incitement to hatred, which is mentioned in § 12 of the Constitution, is punishable only if it poses a risk to the life or health of a person. The Constitution doesn't say that. We are afraid of this public debate in society for some crazy reason. We're always scared. We fear an argument or fear the validity of the Constitution. Hey, you idiot! The Constitution is valid in Estonia. The Constitution says that any incitement to hatred is punishable. There's no need to do this. And that is why I am sad that this provision has gone out right now in war conditions. But I understand this need for compromise because, above all, it is necessary to give a signal from Parliament, and a rapid signal that it is indeed the symbols justifying war or going to war on the aggressor's side that are prohibited and, if necessary, punishable. But I call on us to realise that this is a right given to the police, not a norm that must always and always be used. The police must assess each time whether the use of one symbol or another is intended to justify the four crimes. I believe the Estonian police are smart enough. The Estonian police are not a traffic camera that simply detects, fixes and imposes a fine. The Estonian police are self-thinking and are able to make decisions on whether or not it is necessary to punish or enough to tell someone, please take away this Georgi tape or please remove the Z-letter. And if a person doesn't react, it's possible to punish him. So, dear friends, I sincerely call on all of us to deal with this bill very quickly. I am pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs has already set itself the goal of looking at this draft again tomorrow. On Monday, the Committee on Legal Affairs is ready to examine the amendments when they come. I hope there won't be too many of them. And that already next week on Wednesday and Thursday we will do the second and third readings. This is an important signal to Estonian society, because let us consider that the next week is the 15th anniversary of the April riots, and then we will arrive on 9 May. The Estonian state must assert itself if it is necessary. And I believe that the Estonian state can do this, and the Estonian parliament can do it, and we will be able to adopt these two rapid changes by agreement as early as next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U11	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now for the reception on the spot. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U12	Thank you. Totally agree with Hanno Pevkur that it needs urgent, acute action. Secondly, I would like to correct or clarify the words of Mr Pevkur that this is not an obligation for the police, but a right. No, the other way around. It is a clear duty for the police to prevent the display of these symbols and to do so unconditionally. This, I agree with Mr Pevkur on which sanctioning police will choose, whether a warning is sufficient or whether a fine will be imposed, is, of course, the competence of the police according to proportionality and common sense. Now, what matters before 9 May, I would like to repeat that. The credibility of the Estonian state and our ability to assert ourselves is shown by the fact that on 9 May, when it really comes to the bronze man, we would not be able to see the Georgi tapes and symbols that heroize the victory of the act of aggression, the great patriotic war of World War II, as we have foreseen in the law. This is an unambiguous and unconditional position. In order to realise it without applying the mass police force, I repeat my proposal to the Minister for the Interior: the Bronzeman's perimeter must be closed on 9 May in order to ensure that there is no national migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U13	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 576. We don't have any other suggestions? No, it's not. Consequently, I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 18 April this year. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U14	Let us move to agenda item 15: First reading of the draft Penal Code Supplementation Act 556 initiated by the Isamaa Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U15	Honourable President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, this bill is in fact the same direction as one part of the government bill. I am pleased that our draft also prompted the government to address these issues. With regard to the use of symbolism in support of the Russian Federation's anti-Ukrainian war on aggression, our preference when presenting this draft was that it would be precisely a rule of purpose. The government chose a broader context for this proposal. In order for this law to enter into force without stretching, we are, as I said, cooperative and will certainly support the unification of these two drafts and the unstretched process. Indeed, the difference between us [the draft] and the government's draft was, in addition to the specificity of this rule, even though we put propaganda in this norm, or propaganda, the war propaganda section, and also the government's rule of war propaganda, and I think it is natural to look at the structure of the Penal Code, we saw that if this was done by using symbols, by committing violence or threatening it, then there would have been a maximum penalty for imprisonment. I want to make it clear, I think it is important that the Committee on Legal Affairs has already come up with the question that it is a police right, that here is the question that should certainly give an illustrative list of the symbols that we are talking about. This would at least serve as a guide to the implementation of what is the legislator's point. We are talking about Georgi's tape, we in our explanatory memorandum have noted, for example, Georgi's tape, the Z-letter, the banners in favour of war, the use of the Russian flag in this context. That would be appropriate. That is briefly the content of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U16	Thank you very much. Any questions? Good waitress, looks like it's clear, no questions asked. Thank you. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marek Jürgenson. The Commission's small decisions, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U17	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, As on the previous item, the draft law on supplementing the Penal Code, initiated by the Isamaa Group, was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 7 April, then as a third item. Tarmo Kruusimäe explained to us there that the political groups had already discussed the content of the draft and agreed on it. He said he'd answer the questions. Indeed, within the framework of this previous point, which we have just dealt with here, all the different issues were discussed with both practitioners and experts. As a result, there was no major discussion. Maris Lauri simply commented so much that the Government of the Republic supported this objective, but stressed that the draft proposed by the Government was broader and more universal. On 7 April, procedural decisions were taken. We decided to put the draft on the agenda for the 556 plenary session on 13 April, which was a while ago, yesterday. We proposed ending the first reading of draft 556 and setting the deadline for submitting amendments at 18 April at 10 a.m., as is the case with the draft government. The Members of the Commission did not want to vote here; there was a full consensus on this. The following proposal was discussed: once the first readings of drafts 556 and 576 are completed, these [drafts] will be merged and referred to the second reading of the joint draft on 20 April. When the second reading of the joint draft is closed, the proposal is to refer it to the final vote on 21 April. There was a similar complete consensus here. No one wanted a vote. It was also unanimously agreed that a co-report could be made, as was the case on the previous item, Mr Jürgenson, or I. With this, I have said all the important information about this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U18	Good. Thank you. There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? That's what I see. I open negotiations and ask Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, representative of the Isamaa Group, to the Riigikogu speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, However, very briefly, I will say a few thoughts on the first reading of the draft under discussion 556. This draft has been initiated by the Group of the Fatherland. The previous draft, which has been submitted by the government, has been submitted for the same purpose, but the difference is that the draft of the Fatherland is focused, more specific, clearer and focused only on the subject of the current Russian-Ukraine war. The draft proposed by the government is more general, broader, allows for broader interpretation. We regret, in this sense, that we have lost time, because the government did not immediately support the draft submitted by the Fatherland. The government coalition could have taken an immediate positive stance on the draft tabled a few weeks earlier and supplemented it with its amendments if it had been desired. That's how we could've bought time. We are again in a situation where time is pressing and there should be two readings next week, the second and the third reading one week. So a little bit like a sandbox game, we've gotten into procedural difficulties and we're breaking good practice. However, I think it is a good thing that we have come to a common position and that there is a willingness for both the initiators of this draft and the government coalition to unite these drafts, which is a good idea. It is also good that the government coalition has given up putting hate speech into this bill. This even allowed this bill to move forward. Otherwise, the draft proposed by the Government would probably not have been approved by Parliament, and the two drafts could not have been merged either. A lot has been said here about symbols, stars, flags, monuments, that there can be very different approaches and interpretations. Yeah, it could be. My proposal, however, is that we should at the same time complement the explanatory memorandum by merging the drafts, where we would write this debate here today, these questions and answers, and Parliament's real will more clearly, so that, later on, if there were to be litigation, the courts on which to rely would be able to find out what the legislator or Parliament's original will has been. So I would like this draft to be dealt with quickly and constructively, and I hope that it will serve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U20	Thank you. Thank you for your good wishes. Okay. Any more calls? Please! No, it's not. If not, I will close the negotiations. The negotiations are closed. It is now that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 556 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 18 April this year. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U21	Let's move on to item 16 - First reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair of the Riigikogu member Anti Polandmets.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U22	Thank you. If the previous, quite rightly the above-mentioned draft, raised many questions and we have an undefined legal situation where there are many question marks, this draft is specific, substantive and useful. It is a draft amendment to the Employment Contracts Act [the Act] which lays down the principle that holidays provided for in the Employment Contracts Act are supplemented by days of national holidays and public holidays falling on weekly holidays. Additional days of rest shall also be extended to the minor's annual leave, the annual leave of a member of staff with partial or absent capacity and the leave of an educational worker. State holidays are 10 according to the Holidays and Holidays Act. Five moving public holidays will fall this year. An extra holiday is not given for a public holiday, which is always on Sunday. The Central Party and the Social Democrats have also supported the granting of an extra holiday for a public holiday on the weekend. The logic of the draft is the same as in previous drafts: giving extra holidays, because it seems unfair to many if the state's promised holidays cannot be realised. This draft allows the employer to compensate for the days so that they are added to the annual leave. The Social Democrats recently came up with a bill that says that holidays would have been immediately compensated, but it is more complicated because the employer cannot plan its activities so abruptly. The principle is, I think, correct for the thoughts of both the Socialists and the Centre Party, but it is easier to add these [days] to the annual leave. What do you need it for? We know from the world that the Americans are working extraordinarily hard, they have a much shorter vacation than we do. Nevertheless, Estonia employs considerably more than Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Norway. At the same time, our people are in a poorer state in terms of their life expectancy and healthy lives. Occupational health experts find that workers need longer leave to recover. In time, it means 20 and more days. During this period it is possible to rest off from fatigue and tension. Longer holidays have an impact on the growth of job motivation and contribute to better health. According to 2019 data, men 54 and women 57 years of age lived healthy in Estonia. The number of healthy years has seen a positive change in rural areas. While in Estonia the average life expectancy of men was 73 years in 2018 and for women was 82 years, in Sweden it was 80 years for men and 84 years for women. Maybe we have a lot to think about. Public health is, in my opinion, a goal worth pursuing. We know that in Soviet times, the most important thing was to implement the plan, and whether they worked themselves to death was secondary to the state. I think we should do the opposite, see that we are healthier, stronger and lead a more meaningful life, not a mysterious five-year plan in three years, keeping ourselves, keeping our descendants, doing more self-development, maintaining our health, health sports. It's all necessary. If we move forward with the extension of holidays, maybe someday we will get even further and allow more freedom from slavery to families with children. Let's take these steps, even small steps, gradually. Of course, people must have the opportunity to work, but in my opinion, at least mothers of families with children should have the choice of staying at home. Now, this is the right maternity leave, if the mother of three or four children can stay home and feel like a real mother, you don't have to work in Maxima. I do not think that [the last mentioned] is a big and sacred goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U23	Thank you very much. Thank you for this presentation. At least one question. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! Those people who have to work on a public holiday, such as bus drivers, doctors, policemen, in fact this list is quite long, have to work even if this public holiday happens to be in the middle of the week, on a so-called working day. So, according to your bill, should this day, as you have planned, be added to their vacations, or how should it be dealt with? Otherwise, we will discriminate against these people, the whole group, and create a small advantage for only one part.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U25	Of course, we have a lot of specialties where you have to work nights, work on holidays, but they have separate compensations, extras. Some have also chosen this kind of work on purpose; they are able to do night work as you can see in this hall, while at the same time receiving a higher fee for this heavy night work. I see that Mr. Kruss Mountain nods and agrees with the assessment. Night work is hard, but you have to pay extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U26	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U27	Thank you, dear waitress. You have read a series of arguments here, which are as if they justify that these days should be added to the holidays. But I don't understand how people's health will improve and so on when they are added to their annual holidays. Perhaps it would be more appropriate that, if a public holiday or a national holiday falls on Saturday or Sunday, it will be a day off on Monday. These days would be divided in a year, people would be more together with their families, and even solstices would be together. Please explain how this inclusion of holidays in the annual leave will help to keep healthier than the draft law [proposed].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U28	That logic is not wrong. What is important is that a working man recovers better so that he can share [free days] even as you suggested. But my assessment is that employers have much more complicated things to do than to plan ahead and add them to [days] annual leave. Cutting Mondays out of the process can be quite difficult. But I'm not arguing that those days should be given. How we do this is already a technical question. My first preference is to extend summer holidays, for example. Studies also show that a person does not switch to rest on his or her first day of vacation, but when the rest is longer, he or she feels at some point that work is no longer haunted by him or her and that he or she can turn herself off. So a longer holiday is very welcome, we [could] be among the five longest holiday countries in Europe. I think that this would be a much more dignified goal than this complete failure in the five richest countries of Europe [on arrival].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U29	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U30	Thank you. In fact, our bill allows the employer to plan the whole year in the same way. If it is known that the days of public holidays and national holidays that fall on holiday are given [free day] on Monday, then it is possible for the employer to plan in the same way as if those [sundays] were all so-called business days. This is not difficult at all; it does not come unexpectedly to the employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U31	I would be pleased if we could convince the Riigikogu to decide in one way or another together. I would also cast my vote in favour of your draft if the majority of the Riigikogu came behind this position. What we have in common is that these days should be compensated. A deadly nation is not a happy nation. Let's take a look at that with a high lucky index. We learn from an Asian country with a very high lucky index. In Finland, the lucky index is one of the best in the world, and in the meantime it was the highest. But I like Bhutan's lucky index even more. They're the masters of this thing, and I'd be happy to get into it in the future. In Europe, we do not have to overdo the Calvinist mentality that we live on things, on technical achievements, in the end, like American pensioners have been working themselves apart and traveling on a cruise ship for the first time when we are 65 years old. Why can't we afford it first? We should still think about what we live for every healthy year we have lived for a healthy year for our children, we have more strength for them, not for a plan, not for a silly Soviet self-sacrifice in the name of nothing, for the hollow propaganda of the Communist Party. I don't know if there's still one left in Tallinn." which was last on the wall near the bus station. An extremely hollow slogan, "Get to work!'. And what they did with their "Ow to Work!" Under a banner? What did they do? They put the children in night-care centres, pushed the collective workers to work at four o'clock and let them go home at ten o'clock, and the children stayed in the night-care centre for a week. It was this blessed Soviet time. It's like you've been assigned to an orphanage. I've heard these stories about how it was shocking for children to be away for a week when parents were working at the collective farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U32	Thank you. We come now from the remote areas that came through here, back to this land of Mary, around Viljandi. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U33	Thank you. I have listened to your two speeches with my colleague, Heljo Pikhof. Can't there be a compromise that we're giving a holiday for both the holidays and the holidays and Monday? Then it would be a bigger joint. Would the initiator agree to such a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U34	It's worth considering. The objective is simple: for Estonians to have longer leave. I'm willing to put my head together and maybe find a third good idea. But I think it's all going in the direction that we get rid of the Soviet myth, like a woman was released at the time. No, he was actually enslaved, he had to work two jobs. Maybe we could start with the big picture of extending the mothers' vacation. For years and years, we would allow children to be raised so that the mother would not have to do any other work, because that is the most important job.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U35	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm about to say I support this bill. But the question is, did you also have the opportunity and choice to give a person before submitting the [draft]? Some wish to take the day at that time, some wish to add to the holiday. After all, it would be reasonable to support the fact that people are healthier and happier, that a rested person works better, that it is a better companion for his companion. All of this is very commendable. We have a choice in certain drafts or certain laws, such as when a father takes parental benefit or when parental leave is taken. Did you have a discussion about this, or did you have a thought about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U37	That's a good idea coming up right now. I'm grateful for that. In this way, this bill should be further developed and the next steps should be taken to ensure that the Riigikogu Hall would be in favour of one or the other draft and would also find compromises. I suppose there is also a need to invite more employers to the table and ask how this would be possible. Why not, if this freedom of choice were to succeed, wouldn't we see, probably, I myself think that a large part would want a longer summer vacation, but maybe a third would want your choice. If companies should be able to do so, why not? Let's do it. Please tell me one more ping line out of here, and we'll get that result.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U38	Things are moving in a good direction right now. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U39	Thank you very much, Chairman. Indeed, everything has at least two sides. Has a good bill explainer, the speaker considered the economic impact? What does one day of rest mean for the Estonian economy? We're always looking for some kind of optimism. Has it been calculated, or is it even known? Has the D.O.D. suddenly investigated it? Maybe we could look at it somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U40	I don't have very precise calculations. We do have the same studies, which show that workers' ability to work is increasing due to longer holidays and their better health. As productivity increases, the apparent loss due to [free] days is compensated for by higher productivity in the company. We follow this understanding, including our experiential understanding. All of us have been contractors, many have been employers. Our experience tells us that people are overworked. Especially here in the north, we've hurt ourselves with a Lutheran working mentality. I am convinced that in the end, the company will also benefit more. See how many books there are in the bookstores about how the week is actually more effective than six hours [of work] a day. If you make effective use of this [time] and do not nap at work exhausted, there is hope that the entrepreneur will ultimately be more satisfied than the employee's clock to clock attendance. Today, revolutionary changes are also taking place in our own work. We're sitting at these over-the-web meetings. During the Coronary season, some fatty advantages have been added. Remote work already allows us to act differently and to do so in the future. He even has a regional policy dimension: people move out of town because they may have to go to a face-to-face meeting only once every two weeks. This is an exciting time. We need to rethink things. We need to think about efficiency. Can't live like in 1900, somewhere in the German Ministry of the Empire, that the clock struck, and right now we're moving to work, and now we're moving out. Such a machine life decreases, meaningful life increases. At the same time, I am surprised that, although we are growing productivity, that there are more machines coming, there are still people missing, and we still have to, I don't know, transport them from India so Bolt and Wolt can work normally. I can't help but wonder. We're always talking about mechanization, but it turns out that Bolt and Wolt's food carriers are nowhere to be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U41	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one more question. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I thought the question would fit in with the late hours. In fact, I have always been interested in this question. I can assure you that according to the latest surveys in Finland, the people of Finland are the happiest in the world. I always wonder what that connection comes from. In the meantime, I thought they were living by the lake, maybe that's one reason. Now I'm wondering if you've looked into it, and do you know how many holidays they have, how everything is arranged? Can you answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U43	I was expecting a question like that. I don't have the exact number in my head, but they're generally the same as laborers, overworkers as Estonians. That's why I wonder how it happened that they got first in the lucky index. I'm trying to crack this puzzle. As I am also in the Estonian-Finnish Friendship Group, I still move more often in the area. In a few weeks' time, I intend to ask the members of the Eduskunna how it is possible that they are happier than the members of the Riigikogu. What's it coming from? I'm gonna go check it out on the spot, and I promise to give you some feedback, which is the secret of the Finns. They also have a great deal of dark time, and there is a great deal of cold time, and they have the same background, which makes them depressive in the north. But maybe they're good athletes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U44	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Thank you very much. I ask for a presentation by Tarmo Kruusimäe, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U45	Thank you, good Chairman! Good coworkers! On 4 April, the Committee on Legal Affairs met in almost normal composition, except that Paul Puustusmaa replaced the Anti Polish forest. And in order for the protocol to be more precise, I will say that it was led by Marek Jürgenson, the reporter was Kiia Väli, the members of the committee were Sulev Kannimäe, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Paul Puustusmaa, who was an alternate to the Anti Polish Forest, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. Commission officials Raini Laid, Linnar Liivamägi and Carina Rikart were present. Heljo was absent. Heljo was farther away. Liis Tõnismaa, Adviser to the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kristel Möller, Legal Adviser to the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, were present on this item. The topic was the preparation of the draft Act amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Estonian Conservative People's Party 537 [first reading]. That is when the Commission started preparing it and adopted procedural decisions. We also have a protocol here, which is not long, of course, but contains some interesting thoughts. Although, in view of all the advantages, the minus came, and the Commission decided that the draft would be rejected. I wasn't on the side who wanted to reject it. I think we could talk about these things. The second reading is where maybe everyone can say the calculation. I, too, have been an employer and an employee, and I also have an opinion on this, but I cannot tell you this now, unfortunately, not that it is a secret, but that I have just reported on the Commission's decision. Here are the cody and half pages of text. If you wish, I'll read it out loud, but you'll have to ask me. Thank you. Oh, the procedural decisions are down, it's already been quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U46	If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U47	Got it. This was to appoint Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as the representative of the [537 SE] lead committee. There was a consensus on that. Propose a draft 537 on the agenda for the 12th plenary session. We moved a little bit. For 4: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast; against Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Paul Puustusmaa; against zero. Propose to reject draft 537. For: Marek Jürgenson, Sulev Kannimäe, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast. Against: Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U48	Thank you. No questions for you. Thank you. Now I'm opening negotiations. Pleasure, I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Heljo Pikhof for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. A little extra time, maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U49	Yeah, sure!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U50	Sure! Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonians have genes working to kill themselves. "Stand to work, late to bed," "Do your work and work" and countless other words of wisdom praising industriousness have been reverentially passed on to us from generation to generation. However, a comparison of the countries of the European Union shows that we have the full power to kill ourselves with our work. In fact, our working person is a sovereign leader among the Member States in terms of hours worked each year. Statistics bring together the number of working hours, the duration of annual leave and the number of public holidays free of work. According to 2018 data, a virk and an Estonian worked 1848 hours, while a Frenchman escaped in 1602 hours and the so-called average European in 1714 hours. True, as we do, the almost 40-hour working week also applies in half of the Member States of the European Union. It is also true that a short annual leave similar to our leave is still available in a dozen Member States. There's not a lot of public holidays, ten, but that's not quite an exception. Let's put aside the holiday season of some southern countries and take a look around the neighbors for a second. There are 12 public holidays in Latvia, for example. The same was true in Lithuania, and from 2020 they took on another day to celebrate. There is a public holiday in Finland 13, in Sweden 14. Additional holidays for a public holiday on a weekend are given in, for example, Belgium, Bulgaria, Spain, Ireland and Luxembourg. In Malta, public holidays during the weekend are partially compensated. So, in the case of Estonia, a long week of work, a short year's leave and a limited number of public holidays coincide, and even these small ones go to water when they get to the weekend. Years aren't brothers, sometimes it's better, sometimes it's not one bit. This year, we have been especially blessed: in 2022, there will be five more holiday holidays that mean an extra day of free time - January 1st, May 1st, August 20th, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day 1st - either on Saturday or Sunday. The fact that our working people deserve more holidays has been mentioned in Estonian politics for years. The Social Democrats have also repeatedly come up with legislative initiatives, but they have collided with the confrontation and rhetoric of right parties about how we are not yet so rich and how the Estonian economy is going to suffer. I'm glad we've taken a step forward by now. Our draft, which aims to give people an extra holiday on Monday for a national holiday or a public holiday, passed the first reading in the big hall. We hope that we can also adopt the bill as a law this spring season. Then we'd take a few breaks in the big job, all together, as a country. In many countries, the law provides for a free Monday when holidays fall on the weekend. In some places, this regime applies only to the public sector and private operators can decide for themselves whether to grant their employees a rest day or half [days of rest] in this case. In other parts of Europe, a series of measures are in place to prevent people from losing their breath. In some places, a regular holiday is accompanied by a holiday, as set out in the EKRE draft; on the other hand, a paid holiday is given to the employee at the same time as a public holiday. Much may be transferred to the so-called bridge system to preserve the integrity of the week. But every last breath we need is desperate. After all, all EU work and rest surveys show a strong link between shorter working hours and labour productivity and worker satisfaction. A person with a well-balanced work and private life has better health and greater well-being than others. Satisfied life, in turn, affects the employee's dedication and performance. It thus benefits the employee, the employer and society as a whole. More joy at work, at home, and at rest would be good for the whole community. The Social Democrats support the EKRE draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U52	Thank you. Thank you also for this historic moment now and for the joy of all of us! Okay, but I don't see any more calls, I don't see any more. The round of negotiations is closed, the negotiations are closed. It is now the case that, at the first reading of draft 537, the lead committee has proposed this in order to reject it. We must vote on this proposal from the commission. I will begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 537 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U53	According to the individual vote, 40 votes in favour, 21 against and 1 abstention. Thus, the draft 537 has been rejected at first reading and will fall out of the procedure. The item on item 16 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U54	Let's move on to item 17. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Isamaa Group. I am delighted to welcome a member of the Riigikogu, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, already in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U55	Honourable Riigikogu! You have before you a very compact bill number 530, the first reading of the Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act [the draft]. In short, the basic school and upper secondary school law is amended as follows: Paragraph 30 is supplemented by paragraph 31 as follows: "It is necessary to complete all final examinations at least with a satisfactory result to complete comprehensive school." There's an explanatory statement on this bill. The explanatory statement is also very compact. "The purpose of the draft is to prevent the abolition of thresholds at basic school finals and to provide in the law that all final examinations must be completed with at least satisfactory results in order to complete comprehensive school. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The decision on the final exams of basic school should be within the competence of the Riigikogu. " This draft does not introduce new terms. "This law precludes the abolition of thresholds for basic school finals and provides that it is necessary to complete all final examinations at least with a satisfactory result in order to complete comprehensive school." Now I'm going to talk a little bit about why this bill is necessary at all, why we really want to bring this [the principle] from the level of regulation into law, just as I also explained at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which took place about a week ago. The exact date was April 5. For four years in a row, the Committee on Culture has been forced to deal with the same subject, or ninth grade, of the final exams. Each time there have been similar disputes as to whether comprehensive school can be completed without examination or whether it is necessary to pass the examinations. The last debate in the Commission on this issue also addressed the question of the threshold. As the debate between the members of the Committee on Culture was emotional and principal, and the change of ministers for education and research has kept the subject topical, the Group of the Isamaa has proposed to supplement the basic school and upper secondary school law with a provision stating that it is necessary to complete all final exams at least with a satisfactory result. The Isamaa Group is of the opinion that annual disputes require a permanent system provided for in the law. Once again, I stress that yes, we are used to it, especially in recent years, that we have exceptions either because of a pandemic or because of a new situation in which a system of examinations really needs to be reviewed, but this draft is rather the protection of the whole system. It [is necessary] that in our normal situation we still have everything clear how children graduate from primary school, under what conditions, and it would be a system of sustainability. Previously, the Committee on Culture has expressed its position in a consensual manner. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It happened two years ago. According to the Committee on Culture, the main standard is as expressed in the draft. This has been highlighted several times at the level of the Committee on Culture. Now this argument, with which the Ministry of Education and Research came to the Committee on Culture. They have such an understanding that they could reject this bill. The reasons were as follows. Firstly, the regulation proposed by the draft is essentially laid down in a regulation. This is the main point of debate. For four years in a row, we have been working on the same subject. Okay, the wordings are different, but we're still coming back to it. I guess the will of our parliamentary state is not clearly enough stated in this regulation either. That's why we think it still needs to be brought into the law. Otherwise, it is the feeling that the Ministry of Education and Research is using such tactics that it is exhausting those people who argue against them every year because, ultimately, at some point, they get tired and then you can put the system that HTM likes to work. Next, the HTM has said, I quote: "The Ministry does not come up with similar regulation, but, in cooperation with its partners, is thinking of a comprehensive regulation. "Indrek Kilk, who represented the Ministry, said that the proposal to change the conditions for graduating from basic school initiated by the Minister of Education and Research was initiated by one of the corps, and the Ministry took this proposal to resolve it. It's not really true. We know that this corps didn't really speak exactly as this ministry has pointed out. I'll quote that a little bit later. "The largest number of partners supported (This is a quote again. (V.L.-K.) The amendment formulated by the Ministry and was opposed by individual associations of subjects. " Again, it is not true. Once again, there was a debate at Commission level, a public debate which is recorded as a video and is available on the Internet, there is also a protocol. This actually makes the situation very strange, because it is as if we are arguing, and then the minister comes again and the ministry comes with exactly the same argument that has been made here. Another representative of the Ministry, Ülle Matsin, said that discussions on evaluation should not be afraid. I totally agree, we shouldn't be afraid. But if we argue with exactly the same argument every year and we know that this dispute is not going anywhere, do we really have to start over knowing that this debate will come again next year? That, too, comes perfectly out of this protocol. So, based on what has been quoted here, we think that we could actually set out some kind of pause in order not to deal with this issue for several years. Estonia is a parliamentary state. The Commission has expressed its position consensually for several years; discussions have taken place. The views of the stakeholders are not as unambiguous and true as the representatives of the Ministry confirm. Since mistrust has indeed occurred between the Ministry and the Committee on Culture, it has been felt for several years now, regardless of who has been a minister, it is also the will to regulate the existing system of graduating from basic school at the level of the law, so that the student is aware of the conditions for graduating early. I would also like to stress who is suffering [or, therefore]. Above all, the issues that we are not reaching will suffer. It is therefore necessary to take a multiannual break during which the issue should not be brought up again. The most critical issues in the field of education are teacher post-growth, higher education funding system, inclusive education system, vocational education system, education in Estonian and so on. There are many issues where the Commission and the Ministry can work together as partners. However, it is not possible to address the revision of the evaluation system before solving the problem of teacher follow-up. Once again, I stress that, above all, there is a need to solve the problem of teacher secondary growth and only then can we move on to issues that are clearly linked to this issue I have mentioned. When we reached a more or less consensus in the Commission that there is another exception this year, but we are still not dealing with the general system, I discovered that a good Minister for Education and Science commented on this for Postimees. Now I quote him: "In conclusion, I would like to say this: [---] The Ministry of Education and Science actually had the intention of losing the thresholds for basic school finals, not once [---], but permanently. " This basically confirms our mistrust of what I was just talking about. "This decision was supported by all major players in the field of education [... "That's not true. "However, this proposal created polarisation [----] This discussion, I dare say, became vile. " Well, it's sad to read. "Love" is a word that is politically very symbolic, very strong. In fact, I would rather say that 'bad' is a word that can characterize the behaviour of the Ministry of Education and Research in relation to Parliament. That is because we have seen how, using this topic, attempts are being made to cross both Parliament and those who have a different opinion. Since the fight got so big, this year we will continue to make a one-year decision. However, we will continue the debate. That is to say, once again, to confirm what has been the subject of opinions from a number of stakeholders as well as from certain Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U56	Got it. Oh, I'm sorry! I realized it all was. No?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U57	No, the subject is so important and so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U58	Okay, okay, I got it wrong. You took a break, and I was wondering if that was all, by accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U59	I still have time, don't I?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U60	You have a lot of time. I can also give you more because of § 66.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U61	Then let's continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U62	Of course!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U63	For the Committee on Culture, this was a very basic and very long topic. Since it was so long prepared, one day the exact date is February 22nd, we also had an open debate, which could be monitored via the Internet, but can also be read in the minutes. There were many different opinions represented. However, in the end, specific opinions and specifically the same places on which the dispute took place were also highlighted. According to the Minister, the initiators, such as mathematics teachers, are the same subject. However, the Commission has received a letter pointing out that the subject of the threshold was not addressed in the letter of the mathematics teachers. Nor did the Estonian Educational Workers' Association initially express such support. The following quote from Liina Kersna essentially acknowledges that what I have just said is true: "The word 'threat threshold' was indeed not used in the first proposal. " It must also contradict what was said to us when the debate on our bill took place in the Committee on Culture, a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research. The representative of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers stated that as if they were the next institution to support the change of this system so strongly. If we look at the fact that at the beginning the Estonian Educational Workers' Association said that they were so strongly supportive, and only then did the survey, then questions arise about the survey. Here are the numbers that came out of the question put by Jaak White. The survey of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers showed that 60% of members supported the abolition of the threshold and 15% of members clearly opposed its abolition. However, let's look at the real numbers: agreeably or rather agreeably answered 60%, against or rather opposed almost 40%. We can look in the numbers, and then we'll have more questions. But even if we ignore the deeper version, we see that there are 60 versus 40 no can say that as if everyone supports what the Ministry of Education and Research wants to push. Plus that we consider that before this survey was conducted, the board of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association clearly stated that they would rather support the Ministry's solution. So this whole interview actually raises questions. With this statement, concluded by Liina Kersna, it can be accepted that it is sad to see general distrust and polarisation. I absolutely agree. Since this topic is indeed so long-lasting and we have been talking about it for four years in a row, there really is a lot of emotion. That is why we do not want both the Ministry and the Members to come up with exactly the same argument next year. When we had a public debate, the question arose as to whether the Auditor General and the Chancellor of Justice had already spoken. At the time, they did not know what their opinion was. Today, their opinion has also been received. For example, the National Audit Office has stated in its reply to the management board of the Estonian Association of Mother Language Teachers that the objectives of the Ministry of Education and Research are understandable, but in the explanatory memorandum to the regulation, the original proposal that had come in February has not explained how the abolition of the performance threshold in the final exams is related to the purpose of the draft, the inevitability of creating a link is not correct. Once again, we see that this is not quite the way the Ministry of Education and Research is trying to show us. Go on. When we had a longer debate, the opinion of the Teachers' Association had also been applied. Here too, we have a whole bunch of questions. Tomorrow we will have one question from us, from the Fatherland, which we will be presenting to the HTM, specifically to the Minister, where we will ask how it happened that there have also been shortcomings in the supervision and supervision process, but they are not very dealt with by the Ministry, but, at the same time, when there is some kind of support to be given or a specific opinion from the Teachers' Association, it will be done. We also have questions about this. I can talk about this subject for a very long time, of course. I understand that pretty much everyone is very tired in this hall. But the main thing I would like to say is that from year to year, regardless of who the Minister was in Mailis Reps, there was Jaak Ab, now Liina Kersna, coming from different angles to one and the same subject [present]. When Liina Kersna was an opposition ambassador, she understood very well how some interest groups simply did not feel that they were involved. At the moment, exactly the same is happening with manipulation, pressure, crossing, and it is very embarrassing indeed. So we're just trying to pause it by law what really needs to be paused. When the pandemic comes to an end, the problems arising from the new military situation will end, we will see if we need any changes to the evaluation system. That's it for now. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U64	Thank you very much for this comprehensive review of this draft. There are questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U65	Thank you for this brief introduction to the bill. Please say by the initiator, this debate has been long in the Commission, which were still the arguments of the ministry and the government, why they do not support Parliament's decision on such an important issue as final exams. What were these arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U66	In the end, there were no quite clear arguments. It is simply not wanted to be in Parliament's hands. It is currently in the hands of the Minister and, in essence, the Minister could decide at the level of this regulation. It was like a major argument. But at the beginning, I was talking about some sort of dispute, whether at the level of the regulation or at the level of the law, which option is better. I do not think we should regulate all the details at law level, absolutely do not think, but since this is a recurring problem and since we are dealing with the same subject from year to year, there is indeed a desire to take it into our own hands in order not to face the same problem again next year. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U67	Let's get on with the questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U68	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! It turned out from your report that when Liina Kersna was sitting in this hall, she, like, opposed the fact that the Riigikogu has become a rubber stamp, but now she would very much like to use this temple. Am I getting this right? Is it just the influence of the Ministry of Education and Research's chair that these changes will come about this way, or from what might this effect really come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U69	I certainly do not want to hurt Liina Kersna with my speech. Indeed, there is room for interpretation that he supported at the time and which he did not support at that time. He did not support the fact that there was no involvement. Are all sources adequately involved in this option now and are all opinions taken into account? No. So in this sense, it kind of depends on what angle you look at. But basically, this debate is really sharp. We know perfectly well that when it comes to education and the question has become so emotional, no matter how you do not solve it, it does not satisfy the other side, and that is when the problem remains. That is why I am absolutely certain that we need to take a break. After all, the situation next year is exactly that the same groups will come and take out the same papers that were written a year ago and will argue again. At the same time, we all have [limited] human resources, as well as all other topics, important topics, waiting in the drawer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U70	Let's keep going. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U71	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Please help me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U72	Good questioner, it's really got really loud in the hall. One moment, please! There's really too much noise in the hall. We respect the questioner and all those who want to listen. Please, Mr. Halfway! I'm asking for one minute to return to Mr. Polish Forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U73	Thank you! I have concerns about how to understand where this ideology is infiltrating our education system and the Ministry of Education. It's always said that grades are devilish, you can't give grades, they violate equality principles, somebody gets offended, somebody gets better grades, somebody gets worse grades. Isn't that the infamous influence of Social Democratic Sweden, where everyone was supposed to be equal? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, we can see that Sweden is falling down in PISA tests and we are pushing up, we are the best in the world. Isn't there some kind of big mistake in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U74	On the previous point, it seemed that you somehow found a common language with the socialists. Turns out he didn't find the real one. I think this problem is very complicated because there are a lot of different things inside. For example, this approach to whether we control the student's knowledge when he or she graduates from primary school or when he or she enters secondary school. For me, this is a very basic question, because we have a compulsory education system in comprehensive school, so we must check the level of knowledge that a student completes primary school. I assume, and from this paper, it seems that the Ministry has, more or less, such an understanding that it might rather be possible to harmonise this system, after all, to control knowledge at the time of entry. Whether it's good or bad, it's actually a question of discussion. If you ask these same questions every time, just differently, and every year, I have a feeling that we won't get far with this discussion and that we need a stable system that we had four years ago to stay. Then maybe we could go to some sort of question that we'd like to discuss in five or seven years' time, when all these emotions have receded.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U75	Let me just remind you that there are two questions for all the waitresses. So just for information. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I understand the situation now that ministerial officials are avoiding dialogue with both the public and the legislative authorities, as if knowing best what kind of education system to develop in Estonia. But what is it really like, do they also have some broader vision of the future of Estonian education? Do they have any kind of vision of it, or rather is it just that they're jumping pretty random? Which one is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U77	Well, it depends on who answers your question. If you were answered by an official or minister of the Ministry of Education and Research, he would certainly say that he has a vision and, for example, by rejecting this bill, he wants to achieve the implementation of his vision. Maybe like this. I can't tell you how they see it. I'm just listing the documents from 2019. In 2019 the Government of the Republic initiated the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act Amendment Act [proposal] 57, according to which passing comprehensive school final exams would not be a condition for graduating from primary school. The draft has passed first reading and is still in the Commission's proceedings, but it has not been actively dealt with. So a similar subject was on the table. In 2020, an amendment was introduced to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which was part of the major draft COVID. At that time, the conditions of termination were decided, including the examinations. The Government of the Republic made changes to the national curriculum and graduating from school was not related to the result of the exam. The following year, in 2021, an amendment was made to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, according to which the condition of graduating from upper secondary school was not to pass a state examination, an internationally recognised exam replacing it, a school examination at upper secondary school and a student study or practical work. However, an amendment was made to the national curriculum of comprehensive school without changing the law, according to which a comprehensive school student who has passed the final exams required for completion of comprehensive school under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, regardless of the outcome of the exam. As can be seen from the list, the details may be different, but the content is generally one thing: whether and how to check students' knowledge when completing comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U78	There's nothing else to add to this right now? Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U79	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, The Polish forest was, of course, right that the social democrats and education were very closely linked. Indeed, even the principle that children have the right to education, education is free, it must be accessible to everyone, it creates equal opportunities, doesn't it, too, be put into the Constitution by the social democrats? But since the Constitution already has children's right to education and education obligations until the end of comprehensive school, I agree that this must be checked somehow. This has nothing to do with evaluation during the first nine years of study. But if we want the Estonian language and culture to be preserved, we cannot allow the child to graduate from comprehensive school without a satisfactory level of knowledge of the Estonian written language, in a situation where we have a simplified curriculum, a coping curriculum and exceptions for children with special needs to take the test. Do you agree with me that in this situation there is no reason to allow one point to be completed or without any threshold?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U80	I agree with you, and more so. This debate has also been very topical in our committee over the years, whether it is the national curriculum that is, like, preventing some kind of examination, and if this national curriculum is basically there, why we play with the threshold rather than asking whether the national curriculum has been properly formulated or whether we may be demanding too much. Actually, it's always a question of where to look. There are many different nuances in this subject. But the main thing is that really, no matter how we look at it, every spring is the same question, how are the graduate graduates of this year going to manage their school and under what conditions they're going to graduate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U81	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I will return to the reply of this Government of the Republic. I hope you've read it. There is one thing that is very clear about this draft: we have a regulation of the Government of the Republic, adopted in 2011, and it has been said that a student graduating from comprehensive school, whose exam results are at least satisfactory. This is one very specific answer, duplicated in the wording of this draft. What I want to say is that these reasons have actually been sufficient. It's just that your angle of approach may not have been so clearly and specifically thought out. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U83	Dear Heidy Purga! Once again, I answered this question from the very beginning. There was also the answer at the meeting of the Commission that a regulation could be a way to regulate these matters, but since such an emotional situation has arisen and perhaps even a distrust between the ministry and the Commission, which both sides acknowledge, it is perhaps better if we take it to Parliament. It's just that at this point we don't have another option left on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U84	Good waitress, thank you very much for your thorough presentation and your answers. Now there's no more questions. Thank you very much, thank you. I ask for a presentation by Marko Šorini, member of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U85	Good chairman of the sitting! Good guys in the hall! To begin with, since Mr Halfamets said that the scores were Satan, I wish everyone a good start on the big Thursday. However, there was a debate in the Committee on Culture on 5 April, as has already been said here. Let it be said that the draft itself is a pair of lines, but the discussion that was here covered almost all the issues dealt with by the Commission. So thank you to the previous speaker. I actually have to repeat him very much, or you'll allow me to drop out, because the protocol itself is five pages. Three alternates were present at this meeting, two guests from the Ministry were present. To begin with, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits explained that the purpose of the draft is to cancel the annual disputes that have taken place in the last four years. A number of members of the Commission then asked him questions, to which he gave answers, which he pointed out earlier, that there are many major problems in the field of education that need to be solved at both the Ministry and the Parliament level, whether they are secondary to teachers, the system of funding higher education, inclusive education, vocational education, and education in Estonian. He brought out all these at a later stage in the Commission's meeting. Subsequently, the representatives of the Ministry gave their answers. They immediately started by saying that the government would not support this draft and again pointed out the reasons mentioned here in the meantime that it wanted to regulate the 2011 regulation, but because it is valid, it would simply be duplication and would not be good lawmaking. At the same time, the representative of the Ministry added that the draft essentially goes against the powers laid down in subsection 30 (1) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, according to which the conditions for graduating from primary school are laid down in the national curriculum of primary school. He also stopped at the discussion that had already been mentioned between the Ministry, the Associations and the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, which took place in winter, did not create a common understanding of how to move forward, as a result of which it has now stopped a bit, the Ministry is working on it [to understand] and will come with it in the future as a more comprehensive plan. The second representative of the Ministry also pointed out what I would like to stress that the aim is to find a solution to how to reconcile upper secondary school entrance tests or exams with basic school final exams so that there is no duplication.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U86	I'll interrupt for a minute, a little intel for you. There's 17 minutes left to the end of the main report. If you want extra time, you can get it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U87	Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. After that, the members of the Commission began to present their views. It probably doesn't need any more reading, the minutes are available. But in the end, the chairman of the committee took such a summary that the Committee on Culture, of course, must discuss matters even if it does not seem that a brilliant result is currently being achieved. I think it's a very good conclusion. There is a clear division of labour that must be done by the executive and by the Riigikogu. Blackly said, Aadu Black then, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, that he strongly advocates that the Ministry must come with a broader and more comprehensive solution. In addition, the Committee on Culture has been asked to receive the grounds for integrity even before the draft is coming to the Riigikogu, so that the Committee on Culture can speak with us. The Chairman of the Committee on Culture then proposed a representative of the lead committee, a consensus solution was found, and the date of submission of the draft was scheduled for 13 April, but you know that in the meantime the date had changed, the date had been a consensual decision. However, no consensus was reached on the proposal that the Commission would propose to reject the draft. Six members supported it and 5 opposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U88	Got it. Thank you, good waitress, for a thorough presentation. You have questions too. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U89	I'm gonna use the line first, because the waitress mentioned me. It could have been ironic...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U90	There's no possibility of a reply in the round of questions, but you can skilfully lengthen that question in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U91	Yeah, that's great. In any case, I would like to make it clear that I believe that the war against grades is being waged by the Social Democrats, and apparently their inspiration comes from the other side of the Baltic Sea. But I'm a strong advocate of evaluation. I've been teaching in high school for over a decade, and I've seen it's important. How do you see Estonia in the light of the PISA tests, whether it is worth experimenting with in a situation where we are almost the best in the world and taking the risks of losing the exams, losing the evaluation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U92	Thank you! I should, of course, say as a representative of the Commission that it was not discussed how I felt. But since, indeed, you yourself brought out the PISA tests in the Commission and talked about the importance of the evaluation, I too think that Estonia's result in the world is good enough, so that no experiments need to be carried out here. What is behind us has still been linked to the limitations of the possibilities of the corona restrictions, which have led us to at least discuss such exceptions. Every time the Minister of Education has gone to ask for these exceptions, everyone, both the Committee on Culture and the representatives of the Ministry, has stated that this is an exception. But just remargina: we will probably not pass Singapore, because they continue to be allowed physical punishment. That's not where I'd like to be in Estonia. So maybe that's why we can't get past Singapore.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U93	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U94	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! From your report, I picked out that the HTM considers that our draft repeats the existing regulation and seems to duplicate it. They also said that our draft was as if it was conflicting with the PGS, because the evaluation had to be resolved with the curriculum. Didn't I? From this point of view, I would make such a logical conclusion that the current regulation is contrary to the PGS, because the evaluation should be resolved by the curriculum. Is the Government of the Republic breaking the law? It's just a midnight thought exercise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U95	Thank you for your question. Maybe you have a visual memory, I don't know. If there is a memory of hearing, you should have realized that this conflict arises because the Riigikogu has given the government the power to impose it by regulation and, if it were to adopt this bill, this conflict arises here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U96	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, you also have a beautiful start on the big Thursday! I listened to the words that you read in summary and what the chairman of the committee said. He sounded like a prophet and it was as if he knew we were discussing it this beautiful Thursday. The executive must deal with executive matters, Parliament's legislative issues. And when the government prepares something, I hope it will inform Parliament and the Committee on Culture will be able to process the draft. Let's hope the moment comes. But right now, about the bill that we have in front of us. I have a question. In your opinion, did the Members of the Commission understand what this bill is trying to solve?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U98	As I said in the meantime, the protocol is five pages long, which means that the discussion was exciting enough. There was also a discussion of this, for example, myself, I can say, and were representatives of the ministry, that what exactly is being regulated, or what is being regulated, if we actually already have it. Maybe no one's gonna lose the exams this season. I understand that the point of the bill is that, if the organisation of examinations is regulated here in the regulation, the draft under discussion would like to be written into the law. But sometimes that kind of thing can be called a replacement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U99	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I'm gonna get in here with the line Anti to the Polish Forest. The current scientific knowledge does not confirm that the evaluation is linked to getting the student smarter. How our brain learns and what the learning process is, we now know much better than 20 years ago when I went to school. The current draft is not related to the evaluation over nine academic years. The fact that, at the end of the compulsory study level, a satisfactory level of acquisition of Estonian language and mathematics is something other than an assessment within nine years or the results of the PISA tests. In PISA tests, we will be able to maintain the world's excellence if we ensure that teachers succeed and go to learner-centred learning. This is not related either to the assessment or specifically to this threshold. But I ask you this about the threshold: if, in the case of high school graduating, upper secondary school education is not compulsory, we have a threshold in the law, why should it not be put there in the case of graduating from primary school? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U101	Thank you. Of course, with the Polish forest, you can still discuss it later. But perhaps our colleague meant that evaluation is still a means of feedback. I hope, at least, that is what Mrs Halfamets had in mind. Feedback is certainly very important for students, it is then specifically numerical assessment, descriptive [return] or whatever. But it also went through the discussion, I think, when my colleague, Helle-Moonika Helme, also pointed out that primary education is compulsory in Estonia and upper secondary school education or secondary education is voluntary. Of course, we already have all these things regulated, so we do not have a direct need to regulate things over or over, so that there is no duplication. [[Riina Sikkut will explain.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U102	Yeah, thanks-thank you! Let's keep going. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U103	Thank you, Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu. I wanted to say that it is late, and I am not surprised that a good friend of the Half Office is a little tired and has forgotten that the Ministry of Education is currently run by a reform party, not a socialist. I wanted to ask the honourable waitress: can you confirm that the proposal to lose basic school exams, to lose the threshold, has been made by the current Minister of Education, not the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U104	Yes, I can assure you that the current Minister of Education and Science is not in the Socialist ranks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U105	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U106	Thank you. I have this question, how do you feel? It is clear that there is no common vision for a common understanding of the conditions under which comprehensive school may end, as if we do not have such an agreement politically. We're still having an argument here. How do you feel if we do not stop this discussion for just a moment, whether we are in exactly the same position next year, in the spring or before spring, and in the same way we are discussing finishing comprehensive school again? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U107	Yes, we both, as members of the committee, probably remember the discussion that was in the Riigikogu conference hall. We had to admit that there is no consensus between the associations of subjects, or teachers who actually provide education to our students, our children, do not have a common understanding. As a result, it is understood that the issue is one that needs a debate. I believe that not one of our colleagues, not one of the 101 people we are in this Chamber, is afraid of work, even if these discussions continue next spring. Of course, it seems like a pointless job when the same story is spoken every year, but even worse is when one option is voted in, so to speak, when the other side is overcome by the so-called 'voices'. If the Ministry of Education has promised to come to the Committee on Culture at some point in time, I would like to say again that the Committee on Culture is the committee which deals primarily with education issues, then there should nevertheless be some compromise in this comprehensive solution, namely, according to feedback from the teachers' community. I sincerely hope that this solution will be found. This situation in which we vote, let's say theoretically, and with the votes of 7: 6 we get 7 people and 6 we lose, is never a good solution. I hope the Ministry's comprehensive solution satisfies the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U108	And unnoticed, we have reached Helir-Valdor Seeder's second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U109	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that there is no consensus between the associations of subjects and the various parties. Well, let's not be naive, nor will this consensus be formed in a year or two; these differences are likely to remain. Since you have said that it is not good to have disagreements and can not agree, and it is not good to have a vote, how should a decision be reached at all, my first question is. The second question is that it was still not clear to me from your long review why Parliament could not decide on this issue. What are the arguments why Parliament cannot decide? As far as I am concerned, I will give you the answer in advance, so as not to say that duplication is a contradiction. There are the same discussions, the same debates, and the same decision can be taken by Parliament, not by ministerial or government legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U110	Got it. Thank you. However, as a preliminary point, I do not know that I would have said that I would not like to have a difference of opinion. After all, we in this Chamber represent a great many opinions and, in the case of differences of opinion, we very often find compromises. We get very emotional in this hall when the voices turn green on one side of the hall and red on the other side, and then the hall is cleared. The multiplicity of opinions is certainly not a problem in my eyes. The second question concerning the fact that duplication is not... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, we have seen that, in this Chamber, we can often find a compromise, not a consensus, in the case of differences of opinion. Compromise. Consensus also occurs in this Chamber from time to time, but the compromise is what should satisfy all parties, not so that one party wins and the other loses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U111	Well, now there's a procedural problem. I'm sorry! Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U112	Yeah, it's a procedural problem, because I don't have a question anymore. But here...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U113	Then you can't ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U114	No, no. I don't have a third question, so now I have a procedural question. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U115	What if it's not a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U116	If we have the red side of the hall, half the green side of the hall here, what kind of tension it creates, what kind of a situation. Does the management of the Riigikogu have information that this is the case for teachers' associations and associations? I attended the meeting of the Committee on Culture. In fact, the situation is that a large part of teachers' associations support the maintenance of the threshold, and those who do not support do so because they do not have the resources to teach all students with a satisfactory result, do not have the resources to provide support services. And we're taking away the threshold because there's no resource. Is this a situation similar to the one we have in this Chamber, where there is a line between opposition and coalition, or do teachers still have a different situation and it is possible to resolve this in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U117	Well, here's the thing. I can't let Mr. Šorin answer that. It was a procedural question, it was for me. I've seen that there are yellow ones in this hall when the [button] is pressed. We have a choice, red, green or yellow. Yeah. Secondly, I would like to say that this was not a procedural question. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to what is extremely important, that we still have negotiations to open. I can see that the Social Democrats have put Jaak Juske as their representative, but if you turn your head towards the Jag now, you will be able to negotiate with Jagua whether or not you can come here yourself. Then you will be able to dwell on this green, yellow and red topic in eight minutes during the negotiations. But now I'd be happy to finish the round of questions on this spot. If there's no [more wishes], I'll just check it out. No one has. You think Rock Mountain wanted to take a break? Okay. The questions are closed and we will open negotiations. First on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, I may have some longer breaks in my speech, but I'll give you a signal when I'm done. Before there was a waitress for this bill, the President of the sitting thought he had already finished and interrupted the reasoning. I'll give you my signal when I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U119	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U120	I'm trying because it's a little late, and I'm gonna do it fast, and I'm gonna do it in less than eight minutes. In the sense that the bill was presented for a very long time and in depth, and there may be a question of whether there really is anything more to be said about this bill in the Fatherland. This bill is not very long, and I hope that ladies and gentlemen have come to know the line that has been received here. But I would like to talk about what preceded this debate, how this idea turned into a draft in Fatherland. It's a much more complicated story, although it's part of the story. It seems to us from time to time that it is possible to talk about a sentence for [so long]. But as I understand it, the Committee on Culture discussed it for a very long time, and as this discussion shows us, in fact, there is more to discuss here than enough. Firstly, we have also done so in Parliament for many years already. Several times, the government has laid down all this in its regulation, and now we are going to duplicate, deliver. On the contrary, once we regulate this draft, the government does not need to discuss it every year. If it seems to us here in Parliament that something needs to be changed, then we will change, and the government will be able to do its work peacefully without having to discuss every year whether or not it should discuss whether or not the exams should be compulsory, according to the mood, mind or mind of the Minister of Education or the situation that has developed in society, or whether or not we could replace the exams with national testing at the end of each school, because this idea went through at the beginning as well. I must say that in the Isamaa Group, it had support, not majority support, but it had support that could be replaced by such a national testing system. But it didn't make it to the bill. Then there's a discussion that...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U121	Mr. Onion, I need to apologize for a moment. The Social Democrats are arguing about who's talking about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U122	They're both talking, I think. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U123	I mean... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U124	In addition to whether or not the examinations must be compulsory, the question of thresholds is whether there must be criteria. In the case of basic school exams, which are national, one idea that came up, it was whether they should be there at all, because they are partially overlooked or some stupid village stuff is being done. If you don't pass the national exam, the next day, so you can graduate from middle school, they'll take the school exam, and there will be no failure, as I understand it. That means that the threshold is suspicious there. However, I am not convinced at all of the current system in which, on the one hand, the law contains an examination obligation and a threshold, but, on the other hand, by overlooking the outcome of this state examination, we accept a situation in which students do not, as a result, have the knowledge required by the syllabus if they fail to pass the test. There's a more systematic mistake here somewhere that doesn't make sense to such a... Well, I guess it takes a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U125	Three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U126	Yeah, but I hope I'm done early.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U127	Let's do three.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U128	The subject of the threshold is still a question. This year, it has been proposed to remove the one-time examination threshold, and it is also said that this threshold could disappear at all. But I think this is the parliamentary debate place. At the moment, as I said, there is a government regulation, the minister proposes according to his mind and understanding. But I think it's important. As we said, for some reason where education is not compulsory, in the case of upper secondary school education, we have considered it necessary to regulate everything in law, but as regards compulsory education, let the government think according to which side the wind blows outside at this point in time, how many sick people there are, whether we can or cannot do so, that it is decided by the government. But in the upper secondary school, we have everything exactly in the law. This certainly does not make sense. That is why, although, as I said, myself and, for example, my good colleague, Mikhail Lotman, are not very enthusiastic supporters of the compulsory exam, it is absolutely right in my view that this debate must be held in Parliament and precisely in Parliament. In the course of further processing of this draft, we can hold this debate here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U129	Here you go. Well, Mr. Ceder, you were in a hurry by mistake and your fingers were in the wrong place. Got it. Then on behalf of the Socialists, Jaak Juske. Yeah, I'm sure it'll be a pleasure. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It's 11 minutes past 2. In fact, it is scandalous that we are discussing today's agenda, perhaps the most important draft at 2:00 a.m., after the Riigikogu has worked 12 hours in a row. There is nothing wrong with the fact that the Riigikogu is working for 12 hours, but we have put the draft on basic education, basic education, on the agenda at night, when, in fact, our ability to work is already slightly reduced. Basic education is the education that we have so agreed in Estonian society, our young people must acquire in order to cope with life and successfully pursue their studies at the next stages of education. It is actually the foundation for life, it is compulsory education, it is the education that we, as a society, pay from the state budget, it is free education. For these reasons, this is a crucial issue. All the more so as we have agreed that in our Estonian education system, there really must be a principle of convergence school in primary school, so that all primary schools across Estonia provide the same level of education as possible and at the same level as good as possible. In order for this principle of convergence to be maintained and our schools, our primary schools, to be on an equal level, to be as equal as possible, these schools also need to be tested somehow, [to be known], how schools and teachers have done their job, so that we do not let this educated people down the bar. One way to do this is to have comprehensive school finals and to set a threshold as part of it. As has been said here many times today, the majority of the Riigikogu has clearly said that the final exams of basic school must be maintained in good times with the threshold; we must not lower it. However, whoever has been in the Ministry of Education there has not been social democrats for a long time, there have been middle party and reform partymen, they always try to cross the will of the majority of the Riigikogu and find a way to lose the basic school exams, how to lose the threshold, how to actually lower the principle of harmonisation school. I myself have been in the teaching profession for ten years, and I am still in that position. Examinations are a natural part of a young person's education. It's also natural that while you're going to take the exam, you've had to acquire some kind of knowledge to pass the exam successfully. The threshold, the satisfactory result is, I think, for every student to be able to. To tell you the truth, it would be very funny if you went to the exam and got a positive grade on the exam just for being there. Indeed, we are proud of our good education, our principle of convergence school. Let us preserve this value, the foundation of the educated people in the future. I think the Riigikogu must assert itself here. If the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education are always trying to break and violate this social agreement, find a way in which the basic school exams could eventually disappear, and what is worst, lying and slipping, manipulating the opinion of teachers, because clearly the majority of teachers are of the opinion that the exams at the end of the primary school and the threshold must be maintained, then we must not give in here and the Riigikogu must not give in to the government. One way is that we write [in law] the principle that final exams in primary school with a threshold must continue to be maintained, with a satisfactory result. It is for this reason that the Social Democrats support the continuation of this draft procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U131	It's settled. I don't see any more calls. Now we can review the proposals that have reached our table. There is exactly one of them: the proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 530 at first reading. That is what we need to vote through. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the last vote on the last item on today's agenda. This vote is the vote on draft 530 and the proposal of the commission is to reject it at first reading. Therefore, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading 530. Please take a stand and vote. Where are you going now? Someone here could have protested. Wait, where are you going? Someone might protest.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U132	The Governing Commission's proposal is supported by 40, against 14. The proposal was supported and the draft has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, the story is that our agenda has really come to an end. Surprisingly, we'll meet again here at 10:00 in 7 hours and 41 minutes. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U133	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister, members of the government! Honourable journalists! Happy watchers of this gathering! Mr President Zelenskiy! Good fellows! We are deeply grateful that we have the opportunity to welcome you, Mr President, here in front of the Riigikogu today. I remember our meeting in Kiev on 24 March, where we discussed the situation on the front and how Estonia and the international community can help Ukraine better in the fight against the Russian aggressor. Since our meeting, the world has seen the terrible atrocities that have been committed against the peaceful population, women and children. I sympathise and sympathise with the Ukrainian people and with all the victims of the Russian army's bloodshed. Your fight is our fight, too. We know you can't get tired. After the war has ended, we will be at your side to help rebuild Ukraine. In the meantime, while we admire Ukraine's courage and fighting spirit, we will continue to support you at various levels: political, military and humanitarian issues and your journey to the European Union. Mr. President! We have learned from the Ukrainian people the lesson of priceless dignity and loyalty to values. Thank you for that! I give the floor to you now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U134	Mr. Speaker! Madam Prime Minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu and Estonian people! I am grateful for the opportunity to address you today in a situation that leads us all to the darkest times in the 21st century. For thirty years, the peoples of Europe have enjoyed peace, freedom and common opportunities for development. Now, however, Russian revanchism has destroyed all the good that has worked for decades in a peaceful and stable Europe. Only ruins remain of global security and security, such as the ruins of Ukrainian cities that have been bombed by Russian missiles, the Russian Air Force. All international institutions must support [our] support the UN, the OSCE and others. They are unable to stop Russia's aggression now, although it is precisely for this purpose that a regional alliance, in particular NATO, was established. The current situation is not easy; no one has 100 per cent certainty as to whether its members will actually be protected from the massive invasion of Russia, as is currently the case in Ukraine. Later, it may become an invasion, which also uses weapons of mass destruction, because for the first time in many years there is a high risk that Russia will use nuclear weapons or chemical weapons. In Russia, it is said that Russia [should] conquer all European countries. They are not simply talking about it in emotions, but they are systematically talking about it and teaching the Russian audience that war against neighbours is the norm. Russia's attempts to occupy Ukraine in eight years have done the same thing to the reality of European security as has been done to you: mass deportations, the desire to destroy anyone who supports national ideas. Currently, more than 500000 Ukrainians have been forced to relocate. Imagine if the occupiers were to aim to take out the entire city of Tallinn [citizens]. There was a town, and he's gone. That's a third of your entire population. Deported Ukrainians will be deprived of documents, all taken away, including phones. They will be moved to remote regions of Russia and will in all ways be prevented from returning to Ukraine. Children are separated from their parents and are intended to be given to Russian families for illegal adoption. There are already dozens and dozens of examples in Ukraine's cities, which have been the victims of Russian attacks, where the Russian army uses all types of weapons, blows, including phosphorous bombs and other weapons prohibited by international standards. This is a clear terror against the civilian population. It is an attempt to break the resistance of the people and destroy it for generations. Why is Russia's national leadership doing all this? How has Moscow been given such a sense of impunity? I'm sure you know the answer to that question. That's clear. On the one hand, Russia, using its privileges in international structures where it is a permanent member, has achieved a situation where it can block decisions in other regions where it is fighting. On the other hand, the Russian leadership does not believe that Europe can hold Russia accountable, that Europe can commit Russia to peace. They take into account Europe's fragmentation and that [peace] is a higher priority for Europe than security or even the survival of Russia's neighbouring countries. Good people of Estonia and honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today, Russia can either stop or lose for a very long time the hope that free and civilised life will prevail throughout Europe, regulated by international standards, not by force. I am grateful to you for understanding this. There is already a good page in our joint story: the meeting of 26 February, where tens of thousands of Estonians participated in the Vabaduse Square in the heart of Tallinn and where you supported Ukraine and European freedom. Estonia was one of the first to provide the necessary assistance to Ukraine. It's true. In particular, armed assistance is [important]. I am sincerely grateful to you for your support. You are and will remain our principal supporters in European organisations and in the policy of sanctions. I am grateful to you for refusing Russian energy carriers, including European gas, which makes Russia confident. It is important to seek the same attitude from other nations. We must do much more to stop Europe from going back to the 1940s, where we saw the occupation that your country also survived. Countries do not need to repeat the black pages of history when Ukrainians and Estonians were deported to Siberia for many years, to far Russia, where there are enough graves of the Ukrainian and Estonian people, where the victims of the deportation of communism are victims. I call on you to find instruments at European Union level that would really affect Russia and that would bring all deported people back home. The European Union has the power to ensure this, and the European Union must use this power. Until Russia brings back thousands of stolen children from Ukraine, it must not receive any cents from European countries or companies. The European Union must not be a sponsor of deportation; the European Union must not be a sponsor of war. We need to take sanctions against Russia even more seriously. Sanctions are inevitable, because they are now the only instrument to force Russia into peace. I call on you to endorse at European Union level a new very important package of sanctions against Russia to completely block Russian banks, all Russian banks, not just parts. I call for you to also put oil into the sanction package. An embargo is needed at EU level. I ask your country, your specialists, to join the task force set up to investigate war crimes on Ukrainian territory. Technical assistance is also indispensable and very necessary. Tens of thousands of people have already been tortured and killed, birthplaces, food stores, and people in shelters have been bombed. I would stress that they knew that children were hiding in these shelters. There is no [one war crime] committed by Russian soldiers during these 49 days of invasion. All war crimes must surely be investigated, the culprits identified and found, no matter how much time it takes. But if we do this with you, with other European countries, we will be able to do it much faster. Most war criminals have still not been held responsible for the acts committed. It is a matter of principle that the new generation of Russian murderers be held responsible for [their actions]. They need to be held accountable now so that they do not have to be looked for afterwards. [They also need to be held responsible for crimes against the Baltics and Poland or other countries]. All who have chosen freedom for themselves in the 20th century must keep it in the 21st century. Ukraine will always be grateful to Estonia for supporting our country and for European integration. I am grateful that you understand that Ukraine's accession to the European Union is not just an economic issue or an abstract policy issue. This is a security issue and guaranteeing freedom and democracy in Central and Eastern Europe. Ukraine must have the status of candidate country for membership of the European Union in the near future and, once Russia has lost the war and that happens, it is important to complete the [merger] and to bring Russia to all the rematchers to the knowledge that the war will not lead to its intended realisation. We are already working in the IT field and demonstrating to other countries the advantages of modern digital solutions in government administration, and after the war we will be showing it even more, and it will become even more topical so that public authorities can work and businesses come back here to ensure cyber security. Honourable people of Estonia! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few hours, the Presidents of the three Baltic States and the President of Poland will come to Kiev. I look forward to meeting with your President, Mr. Alar Karis. Such visits to the capital of our country are very important to us and not just to us. European support is also important to us in our fight for freedom, and it is proof that the defenders of European freedom will continue to unite their forces without making any political or economic changes to Russia. Europeans must make every effort to renew and restore European justice and justice. This is a task that we can only carry out at European level, together with the European Union and other members of our anti-war coalition. If Europe is wasting time, Russia will use it to extend its military activities to other territories, but together we will never allow this to happen. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Estonia. Slava Ukrainiani! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U135	Mr President Zelenskiy! In this difficult and very difficult time, I wish you, Mr President, and the entire Ukrainian people, according to the old Estonian custom, strength and endurance. Estonia will certainly be alongside you, Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in the reconstruction of Ukraine after the victory of Ukraine. Thank you. Good colleagues, this gathering is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U136	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good members of the Government of the Republic! Happy Question Time viewers in this hall and via the Internet or TV! We're gonna start Question Time on April 13, 2022. Checking for presence first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U137	21 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 80 are missing. The following members of the Government of the Republic will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna and Minister of the Environment Erki Savisaar. Good colleagues, if it's all right with you, I'll make the following suggestion. There are five registered topics today. Since the topics are a little less [than usual], while the Question Time is also a little shorter, there could still be one additional question and two additional questions for each question. If that's okay, we could work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U138	The first member of the Riigikogu asks Helle-Moonika Helme, he is answered by the member of the government Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is the state of the country. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U139	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! We met yesterday in the Group with the Governor and Vice-President of Eesti Pank, who gave us an overview of the future economic forecast. Unfortunately, the influence of Russian military activities in Ukraine [in connection with the war] was relatively modest. They also admitted that all of this was still a relatively dark country for them. At the same time, they said that they have taken into account the economic recovery in Estonia's spending of social benefits paid by the Estonian state to refugees and the wage paid by [war refugees] in Estonia, where it increases our economy through local consumption. This amount was 150 million euros per person by this year and estimated at 30000 people, which is paid by the Estonian state. However, the Governor of Eesti Pank could not yet tell us where the money came from and thought that it would probably take a loan. I ask whether you can tell us specifically here what resources your government intends to finance your commitment to the Estonian state. At the same time, the Ukrainians themselves have said that they would rather send much of this money to their loved ones. Therefore, most of this money will not go into the growth of our economy through consumption, but will flow out of Estonia. If the government now plans to borrow money for the expenses of war refugees, and this money will eventually go largely to Ukraine, not to Estonia, then what is its long-term impact on the Estonian economy? Is it just the obligation to pay out loans for our children and grandchildren? I would remind you of the opposition to borrowing if the loan had gone into the construction and maintenance of our own infrastructure, yet it would have been used by all of us for decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U140	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U141	Thank you. It's admirable how you find a way to hate refugees in every subject. To say that there will even be an economy in the recession... [[Someone's talking in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U142	The mike's out? [[Someone says there's no hearing in the hall.]] Got it. We're about to check the microphone. I can hear you, but... We're about to check the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U143	Who's controlling it? Is someone coming here to check? [[Knocks against the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U144	Thank you. The Prime Minister's test shows that the microphone is working. So let's hope it works now. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, to start over, and I would ask you that time is up again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U145	Thank you. I said that I always wonder how you find a connection with refugees in every subject and an opportunity to hate them and say that all the problems in Estonia are due to the Ukrainian war refugees, whom we are really helping. And we are helping because there is a full-scale war going on in Ukraine. These people are running from war. These are mainly women and children who come to Estonia to seek temporary asylum. We are really trying to help them, just as we are trying to help Ukraine in all other ways, because we want that help to be provided by others if we need help, because we have helped others. If you are asking about the economy, then [I can say that] the economy has been doing very well so far. Indeed, last year's economic growth was 8.9%, far beyond what was in Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden, where there was 4.8%, or in Finland, where the economy grew by 3.3%. It is clear that military action will lead to a recession and will lead to difficulties. It has implications by having sanctions that, unfortunately, also affect us. This will have an impact on the fact that otherwise raw materials from Ukraine and Russia will not come from there at the moment. I'm sure it's affecting all of us. The question of where the revenue of the State comes from. The revenue of the state comes from taxes that come from the payment of taxes in Estonia, and comes from all kinds of loans, from various capital market instruments. The loan can be used for investments; it cannot be used to cover fixed costs. So no expenditure relating to war refugees can be covered by the loan, but must be covered by the revenues that the State has, as fixed costs [others] cannot be covered. We have prepared an additional draft budget, which actually consists of three parts. One major part is related to strengthening Estonia's own defence capabilities, including population protection, the topic of possible shadowing. The second part concerns the effects of war more specifically, including the costs of war refugees. And the third part is how our own people cope with the fact that there is really very high global inflation, which also hits our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U146	Helle-Moonika Helme, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U147	A procedure for a good chairman. I ask whether I said anything inappropriate in my question or incited hatred or hated someone. I assume that, if the good Presidency did not make a comment to me, [I did not do so]. Perhaps [the chairman] would make a comment to the honourable Prime Minister to stop making such unnecessary emotions, assessments, and accusations. He's not here to blame or make assessments, he's here to answer questions. I asked for information that I did not receive from the Governor of Eesti Pank or the Vice-President; they did not know either. These are topics that are very closely monitored by the public. The public, the people of Estonia have asked me these questions, and this is where I can pass these questions on to the Prime Minister. We don't hate war refugees, nor do these people hate war refugees. But when a person, Mother, writes to me that his child's dental care was stopped because the Health Insurance Fund said that this year was out of money from the Health Insurance Fund, and he's asking if it's because of war refugees, if that money goes there, then I asked him about financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U148	I understand your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U149	Let's put an end to all these futile emotions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U150	Thank you. Good fellows! First of all, no, I will not make a comment to you, and I did not make a comment to you, and I am not making a comment to the respondent at the moment either. But what I'm trying to say, good fellows, is that I remember how a few times ago there was a rule in this Chamber that during Question Time, we don't have any procedural questions. This has now come in recent years. Of course, I will not stop this [the possibility of asking procedural questions] because at the very beginning, when you raised your hand, you had a clear procedural question. The microphones didn't work. Let's move on. I am certainly not interfering with the content of how someone answers or how someone asks. I do not think there is any need for the manager to intervene here at the moment. Let's keep going. Please, an additional question, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U151	Thank you. Indeed, I did not want to waste my very important time in the unnecessary counter-motivation that the Prime Minister started. But let's continue on energy sanctions. At the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Elering's leader, Taavi Veskimägi, spoke of Russian gas, said that the gas molecule does not have a homeland. Estonia currently does not buy Russian gas, it buys it in Finland. At the same time, everyone who knows anything about it also knows that the gas obtained from Finland is largely Russian, so the pure face we are communicating outside is in fact not at all clean. At the same meeting, the representative of Eesti Gaas said that gas from Russia in April-May does not really come directly to Estonia. However, in order to cover the needs, it uses, among other things, stocks that have previously been stored, which are already purchased from Russia. Speaking of future prospects, it was his concern that by June at the latest, new stocks should be provided for the coming winter, because otherwise we will be in a situation where the tanks are empty and there is nothing to heat at the latest in January-February. There is no other option at the moment than to start buying gas from Russia again in June, otherwise what I said just before will happen. Those are his words. Your LNG ship's project is largely air-written. It may be, but it may not be here by the start of the heating period. Kadri Simson, European Commissioner for Energy, is also panicking for LNG suppliers around the world to see that even if this ship is standing at a quay in Paldiski, which does not yet exist, its tanks contain gas. All of this is a project on the edge of the spikes and the edge of the knife. Do you have a plan? What about Estonian industry, Estonian people's houses and apartments? Do they have to stay cold and unheated in January-February? What's your plan for the worst-case scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U152	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U153	Yeah. Thank you. Indeed, we have made a fundamental decision in the government that we do not want to finance the Russian war machine. In view of the fact that the largest part of Russia's budget comes from various energy sources, be it oil, gas or coal, we believe that they should be subject to sanctions across Europe, precisely so that we do not finance this war machine. And indeed, at Estonian level, we have made this decision. In the case of gas molecules currently contained in the gas tank, it is not possible to distinguish what has come from where, but the guideline has been given that they will not be purchased from Russia. Also, the tube that goes from Russia to the Inčukalns gas storage facility does not work and there are no molecules coming from there. As far as preparation for autumn is concerned, first of all, we have already provided [gas] with this [in Latvia] storage facility now being filled. Secondly, at government level, we decided to reserve an additional 1 terawatt-hours of gas and not buy it from Russia. It has to be said that Estonia's total consumption is 5 terawatt-hours, so this 1 terawatt-hour margin would be additional. The third thing we've done is we decided to build a LNG picket dock and pipe. We have allocated EUR 30 million to have this reception capacity in Paldiski. [Also] we have a substantive agreement with Finland and Latvia, but it is still unfettered to use the floating LNG terminal with the possibility of regasification. Finnish consumption is 30 terawatt-hours, Estonian consumption is 5 terawatt-hours and Latvian consumption 14 terawatt-hours, so it is reasonable to share these things. The point of the initial agreement is also that this floating terminal or ship comes first to Estonia. But what's the point? Just store LNG, LNG from other suppliers, if it is Russia, to fill the gas storage facility and then get over the winter, difficult times with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U154	And now two additional questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U155	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Well, your relationship with the truth is getting longer and shorter from a distance, and your closeness to a lie is getting shorter and shorter. If you're talking about how we hate refugees, of course you're just cruelly lying. In fact, it may be true in saying that we are hating the current government, because there is now one of the worst and most anti-popular governments of all time in Estonia. But refugees are still enmityd by today's government and the Reform Party, who treats them as their financiers, the slave laborer of major employers, and treats war as a material spent on women and children fleeing terror to increase their profits. What you're doing is cynical, immoral and vile. But I'd still come back to the money issues, I've had contact with it before. Here again, not being true at all, you explained how a loan cannot be spent on permanent expenses, but only on investments. Well, there aren't any laws or rules that say that. If that's what you've agreed to in the government, that's what you have to say. But there is no prohibition anywhere, and we have done so before, to spend a loan on running things as well. This same Eesti Pank forecast, before the additional budget, said that Estonia's budget for next year is less than 2.7%, if I remember correctly. You can help us here with [data] because your budget negotiations have been going on for a very long time and very little information is coming out of it. I hear we're talking about an extra $800-900 million. This would increase our budget by 3%, a total of 5.7%. And if it was 1.2 billion, the deficit would increase by 4%, totalling over 6%. We'd have the biggest budget deficit of all time. Tell me, in the opposition, you were a huge jar of budgetary balance, was this metamorphosis of the opposition's budget balance purist in Estonia the biggest overexploitor in Estonia also painful?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U156	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U157	To be honest, it's just really scary to listen to you guys, you admit that you're specifically hating us. I don't hate EKRE, for example. I understand you have your own voters and you represent a particular company. But the way you say you hate is pretty powerful. I'm glad you're so open about this. Now for the loan. Try to cover your daily expenses with a loan that you will simply buy food, everything else with a loan. How long does living on a loan like this last? Old people have already said that the fire and the loan income will not last long. The budget minus we inherited from you was 1.27 billion. A big hole in the budget yawned. Let's look at earlier crises. [The reason] why we came well out of the financial crisis, why we came well out of previous crises, was that compared to Latvia and Lithuania... [[A voice from the hall.]] You can talk and listen at the same time. Wow! That's quite a skill. But why Estonia came out of this strongly was that we went in with a large buffer, we had reserves collected at the time when the Reform Party was in government. That is the important aspect. People also say that it is necessary to gather for dark days, because when difficult times come, there is something to cover these problems. [[Break.]] It's just really weird for me to talk when you turn your back on me and talk to Mrs. Helme over there...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U158	Prime Minister! You have one more minute to answer. Please respond if you wish, and if you don't, stop. Whether a member of the Riigikogu is in the Chamber or not, you must respond. He turns his head or not, you don't pay attention to it. Please, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U159	I just find it very strange that when a person asks and I answer, he listens to the instructions of the Moonika Helme at the same time. Then maybe there's no point in asking, ask Mrs. Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U160	Okay, here's what we're gonna do. Let's keep going. Next question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kaja Kallas! It's just that we're impressed by the fact that you're a free walker and you don't know anything about finance. You do not know that this 1.2 billion was a forecast from the Ministry of Finance that did not work out. This did not take into account the pension reform and a number of other factors which subsequently materialised and essentially removed most of this so-called minus. If you have not understood or taken account of this as Prime Minister in dealing with later payments, then frankly, take your pick and get out of this office. However, my question relates to gas. The representatives of Eesti Gaas have told us very clearly in the group that this LNG project, in the form it has been discussing in the government, does not guarantee the supply of gas to Estonia. No, I don't. Alexela... [[Coughs.]] I'm sorry! Alexela's representatives have said that they expect guarantees from the state. They will not build any quays or other investments unless the state guarantees that LNG will continue to be used after the end of the Ukrainian war or after the end of the other gas crisis. Basically, we also know that there is already a quay of gas processing capacity and gas reception capacity in the Northern Port of Paldiski, which belongs to some Ukrainian oligarchs. Either you don't know these circumstances, or you're gonna shut them up and tell us some beautiful pink fairy tale, like you used to. Like you put everything in place in the government and there's nothing to worry about. We have enough to worry about here and also the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U162	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U163	Thank you. If I remember correctly, I am not currently carrying an explanatory statement on the state budget you have submitted, on pages 27 or 57 of which I do not exactly remember, it has been explicitly said that you have written empty cuts in the budget. Empty cuts, you admit it. Your son Martin Helme has admitted on several shows that yes, it was a bluff. There was a bluff, and there was an empty budget cut, and we went to lie clearly. Such a cut had not actually been made, nor was it intended to be done, but expenditure was made on it. That's what you've all admitted, so I don't know what you're accusing me of, if you say so. Now, as far as gas is concerned, the earlier governments have indeed decided to establish a Balticconnector in order to establish a connection with Finland in order to allow gas to flow from Finland to Estonia. [To date] LNG has not been dealt with because LNG has simply been so much more expensive and has not been economically viable. Now we are in a situation where we want to give up Russian gas, and for this reason we also need other energy sources, and that is why LNG has become economically viable. Alexela's being negotiated. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has certainly considered a variety of projects, including this Northern Port project, which is the fastest to be completed, and the analyses that have been submitted by the government have shown that all projects would be the fastest to be completed by Paldiski, which would allow for the adoption of LNG. The important thing for us is that this opportunity should be created in the autumn of this year, precisely because we would be equipped with enough gas to meet the winter. Yes, the share of gas in Estonia's energy consumption in general is not very high, it is 7 to 9%, but, however, because it is linked to many industries, it is also linked to the heat, district heating of households, then in any case we must create these opportunities for gas or alternative sources to exist. That is why we have made such decisions to take these steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U164	A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U165	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to congratulate you, if I may. In particular, it concerns Article 146 of the [Home and Rules of Procedure Act], the procedure for answering questions according to which it is for the Question Time Manager to assess whether the question concerns the problem mentioned in the request and whether the question has received a sufficient answer to stop dealing with it. Both of you have discretion. I very much congratulate you for pointing out to our ruler that it is not appropriate to answer the question by referring here to the questioners of our Question Time, whether he turns his head to the left or to the right. I congratulate you for this and ask you to continue these same moments, and I would add that if you notice that the answer is being sidetracked, you will also draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U166	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U167	We move on to the second question, it is submitted by Riigikogu member Üllar Saaremäe, which is answered by the Minister of Education and Science Liina Kersna. The subject is the education of war refugees. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U168	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, First of all, I would ask you to make, if possible, a brief overview of the situation in your field, especially at this time, when tens and tens of thousands of war refugees have come to the Republic of Estonia, including schoolchildren, kindergarten children. What are these major problems and obstacles? And more specifically, is there something being done and what is being done to prevent local governments from directing students to Russian-speaking schools? Does the government use certain mechanisms, or does it allow it to be born according to the will of the local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U169	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U170	Thank you, good questioner! I'll check to see if the microphone works. It's working. You can hear me. Indeed, as of yesterday, 2888 children [of war refugees] have been registered in the Estonian education system, 70% in general education, 22% in early childhood education, 5% in upper secondary schools and 3% in vocational education. If you look at the language of instruction, 67.6% of all these children have gone to the Estonian education system, 11.5% to kindergartens and schools based on the language immersion method, and 20.3% have gone to the Russian education system, or Russian kindergartens and schools, as of yesterday. 17 children, or 0.6%, have gone to education in English[in the system]. The country has said from the very beginning, from the beginning of the war, when we knew that war refugees would come here, that it is very important that children of war refugees are primarily directed to the Estonian education system. We also supported [the] Ukrainian community's own recommendation that these children go first and foremost to education in the Estonian language [in]. We see today that more than 67% are in the Estonian-language education system, but 20% are in the Russian-language education system. I don't think more than 20% should be allowed to grow that percentage. And why? Why is it important that children are in the Estonian educational system? In particular, because in the Estonian language environment, children learn the national language considerably faster in Estonia. We look at the results as the second language of the Estonian language of Russian-speaking schools; they are dramatic. They're really very, very bad. We have not been able, and here, of course, it is worth looking in the mirror at all of us who have been in government, why we have not been able to ensure enough Estonian-language education in Russian-speaking schools. [The consequence] is that, for example, only 40% of children in the fourth grade did at the most basic level, the A1 level exam of Estonian as a second language, and only 19% did the part of speaking; they managed to pass the part of speaking. It is therefore very important for children to be in the Estonian-language education system so that they can learn the Estonian language as quickly as possible. In fact, when communicating with schools today, these Estonian-language schools, where children have reached, as well as kindergartens, say that children will blend in very quickly, already learn the Estonian language nicely and can handle it. So I hope that... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U171	Additional question, Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I hope you can continue [this answer]. But the question that you could also focus on in your answer is as follows. In particular, the lack of teachers and the wage level that is underlying, especially now that the burdens are increasing. The question is specific: what is the government's plan for investing in Estonian-language education? What is the government's plan to invest in education in Estonian and also in teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U173	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U174	Thank you. I'll pick up where I left off. What we can do to ensure that children go first and foremost to education in Estonian is actually [ensure] clear communication, and that is what we have done. We monitor very closely the areas in which children are directed to Russian-speaking schools. In Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa, where there are more children in Russian education, we communicate and ask whether this [decision] is at the request of [a] parent. There is such a law in Estonia that the parent's wish is decisive where the child is directed. If a parent says that he wants his child to go to a Russian educational establishment, then the local government, if he has places in such a school or kindergarten, must also offer this place. We have learned of isolated cases where parents have said that we wanted to be in Estonian, but we were still directed to the Russian language. The Ministry of Education has responded to these cases and we have managed to solve them so that children have received education in Estonian[institution]. We are in constant contact with these local authorities and monitor them. Investment in Estonian-language education. In the budget already agreed, we received additional resources for the activities of the Estonian-language education action plan, and I hope that the additional budget will also plan additional resources for learning the Estonian language, but it has not yet been decided. For example, [we invest] in support of the "Plus One Teacher" programme, because we know that there are already many other native-language children in Estonian-language schools today. A language immersion methodology is a research-based methodology to quickly integrate a child into the Estonian-language education system. The number of these schools is likely to increase, and we certainly need to support these schools so that they can do well. I am pleased that today Estonian schools have already recruited 80 military workers from Ukraine. 30% of them work as teachers, including Ukrainian language and literature teachers, as well as mathematics and class teachers, and 39% of them have been recruited as teachers' assistants. So I am sure that Ukrainian military refugee educators are also an important resource who can help in schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U175	And now two questions registered on the spot. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U176	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. About 12,000 children should be here right now, and you're saying that less than a quarter of them have gone into the education system. The question is that I did not read how many have gone to study in Ukrainian. I know that part of trying to graduate from [school] e-learning. And is this the plan, [as you said] that more than 20% should not go to Russian? What are you gonna do? Are you forbidding me? At present, there are three quarters [of those who are not yet registered in the education system]. Will the same desire be granted for these three-quarters of children that they want to go to Estonian school?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U177	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U178	Thank you for your question. I have met three times with the Ukrainian Minister for Education and he has made very clear requests. Firstly, he has said that please allow our children to participate in Ukrainian-speaking studies on the distance learning platform set up by the Ukrainian state. It has been asked that we involve Ukrainian military educators in our education system, provide psychological support to children, and allow us to learn Ukrainian language and culture. Indeed, the Ukrainian state has put into operation a very large-scale platform of distance learning. 10500 Ukrainian schools have joined this distance learning platform. Today there are [in Estonia] children whose parents expect to be here in the short term, and they participate in their school study programme through distance learning. All senior classes also receive graduation certificates through this distance training. We do not have a detailed overview of how many children actually participate in distance learning. As of 11 April, there are 10772 [war refugees] minors in Estonia and less than 3000 of them are registered in our education information system. Yes, it may seem a small percentage, but compared to very many other European countries, we have actually been able to formally integrate thousands of children into our education system very quickly. This result is actually pretty good. But what matters is what happens in the autumn, because in Estonia, basic education is compulsory. These children must complete education at least at the level of basic education. From autumn onwards, children can no longer be accepted to be in hotels or temporary dwellings somewhere and learn only on the distance learning platform. They need to get out of the room to communicate with others. Today, those schools that have received children from war refugees in Ukraine have been very nicely integrated with the normal training of distance learning. They have a special time schedule when they are in distance training, and the rest of the time they are involved in joint activities with other children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U179	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U180	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Lord, Minister! I very much hope that this situation with regard to the war in Ukraine will be temporary. And that is why I think that, just as people who left Estonia at the time, founded Estonian schools there, which were far more important than only for the education of these children, we can also help and support Ukrainian schools and Ukrainians in Estonia. But my question is from the [second] area. When your group was in opposition, you were very negative and said that the coalition was not doing enough [many] in the transition to education in Estonian, and also today the problem that was raised that it was still possible to go. I assumed that once the Reform Party came to power, we would no longer have to talk about Russian-speaking schools one year after the Reform Party was in power. At least I remember the drafts that were handed over to Parliament. But we still have a Russian education system. I wanted to ask you what these winnings are now a year after you have been in office as Minister of Education. Decisions were still needed by 1 April to reorganise the educational network or to complete some of the schools, to reform the Russian-language education. For example, on March 30, Valgas decided to reorganize the Russian-language kindergarten, you probably know and regroup the kindergarten groups in Estonian [between kindergartens]. And then a member of the opposition's Central Party, a former parish elder, asked: what problem do we solve with this decision? Has the house been depreciated, whether there are few children, and if you are looking for austerity points, or are we going to avenge the Russian community for the Putin war in Ukraine? I wanted to ask you, do your colleagues in the government, ministers of the Central Party, understand why we are switching to education in Estonian? Why is this transition so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U181	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U182	Thank you. It really makes you laugh for so long, for a year. But what have we done this year? Firstly, for the first time, there is a detailed and comprehensive programme of education in Estonian. Never before has such an action plan been made, and that is why we are in a situation where only 19% of fourth grade students in Russian-speaking schools can speak in Estonian at the most basic level. The country has not had a concrete plan to break the glass ceiling in front of young people who are unable to speak a proper official language. First of all, we have done a comprehensive Estonian-language education action plan involving experts. Secondly, since that academic year, in September last year, for the first time, we supported Estonian-speaking schools, which already have more children in other languages today. After all, we want children with another mother tongue to enter the Estonian education system. We see that this is the trend; parents trust the Estonian kindergarten and the Estonian-language school; they increasingly place their children in the Estonian-language education system. But as a country, we have not supported the education system in Estonian so that [schools] can do well with their children in other languages. Certainly [these students] need more work, more betting, learning in smaller groups, more Estonian language learning. We made this kind of support in September of this [teaching] year. We increased teaching places at the University of Tartu and Tallinn University for teachers who are able to teach children in other languages in the Estonian education system, both at the level of pre-primary education and at the level of basic education. For example, a few weeks ago the government decided and proposed to Kohtla-Järve City Government to nationalize Kohtla-Järve Järve School. We certainly want to fix this school well, help both in substance and in form. It is a school where 70% of students are native-language and 30% are Estonian-language, but it is an Estonian-language school. In addition, we received agreements with the second primary school of Kohtla-Järve as well as with the large primary school of Narva, both currently operating as Russian-speaking schools, that they would switch to the early language immersion school methodology. So I think a lot has been done in this short time. But there's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U183	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U184	Let's move on to question three. It is presented by Ruuben Kaalep, a member of the Riigikogu, responds to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is support for Ukraine. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U185	Thank you, good Chairman! Prime Minister! An hour ago, we heard a very meaningful response and speech from President Zelenskiy right here. Zelenskiy said very important words that if Europe is wasting time, it will be good for Russia. Now, in recent days, Zelenskiy has also turned to the Western countries, saying that if Ukraine had sufficient arms assistance, the city of Mariupoli could be freed from the siege. What is important is that we are no longer talking about even a no-fly zone, but it is purely arms aid that Ukraine's Western countries are expecting. The same city of Mariupoli has reported the possible use of chemical weapons by Russia in recent days. There has been a strong response to this in the Western world. For example, the United Kingdom has said that there are all options on the table if [the use of chemical weapons] is confirmed. This is basically what the United States has said. The question is simply that, if, for example, the use of chemical weapons is now confirmed, and this becomes an incentive for the western, much more effective arms intervention on the Ukrainian side, is it really necessary to have all these casualties in Mariupoli, the massacres near Kiev in Butcha, Irpin and elsewhere, civilians who have been killed in Russian missile attacks, air attacks, as well as Ukrainian soldiers who have fallen? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Have all these victims really been needed to really move the Western world?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U186	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U187	Thank you. All these victims have been too much, all the victims who have fallen in the Ukrainian war. We must never forget that Russia has attacked Ukraine on a totally peaceful, independent, independent state, and as a result, very many people have died, both in Ukraine and on the Russian side. I absolutely agree with you that as long as this war continues, the Western countries have not done enough. That's what we've been saying all along. As Estonia, we gave assistance to Ukraine already in December. We already gave weapons assistance in December, and we have continued to do so all the time. We have also given humanitarian aid, we have politically supported it. Now, as far as arms assistance is concerned, I have been talking to the leaders of the various NATO countries, they have been larger countries, so look, a small Estonia with its 1.3 million inhabitants can give everything we give. [The reason] why, for example, at the NATO Summit, I read out specifically the absolute numbers of the armaments that we have given to Ukraine, [is] so that the big countries understand that a country 65 times our size can do more [than has been done so far]. If Estonia has given six times as much aid as Germany, it was some time ago, being 65 times smaller than Germany, then the big countries will certainly be able to do more. I have asked the leaders of NATO countries to look after what they have and to answer Ukraine's prayers, because we [Estonia] do not have the things Ukraine needs further. And like I said, we've given a lot. For me, all kinds of red lines have long been crossed by the horrors we see, and we haven't actually seen pictures of Mariupoli yet, which are probably even worse than in Butcha. We also see that Russia, of course, understands that the images have an impact and is trying to hide the damage that has been done in Mariupoli. However, in any case, we should act more quickly, not only to make decisions faster, but also to arrive more quickly, because Ukraine needs help now. Putin must not win this war because it has clear implications not only for Ukraine but, in fact, for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U188	And now for the additional question. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U189	Thank you. Indeed, Estonia is probably the country that has supported Ukraine the most. However, in the case of the Western countries, the question still arises as to who or what it is behind, so that they actually take steps that would well end this war for Ukraine. There have been very bad, very stupid steps by the Western countries in previous years. For example, in 2018, when the US Congress decided that Azov's battalion, now the regiment, should not be equipped with weapons produced in the West. The consequence is that at the beginning of the war or full-scale invasion in Azov Mariupoli there were no modern anti-aircraft weapons, and this is one of the reasons why the city of Mariupoli has suffered so much. These reasons why this ban was adopted in the United States were exactly the same as the Russian narrative, i.e. the extreme right and the neo-Nazis. It is not just Ukraine [for that matter]. Ukraine is not the only country where such words or narratives are used for nationalists. This is actually the case for the whole of Eastern Europe, including Estonia. And that such Russian narratives are spreading, we have perhaps also given in on our part at European Union level, talking about how bad nationalism is and so on. In fact, this is what supports Russia's narrative and which harms Ukraine both morally and militarily. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We should explain this narrative and the concept of what's going on in the West better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U190	Good questioner, your time! Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U191	Thank you. First of all, all Western countries are democratic states and there are democratic processes. Their decisions depend on how this democratic process goes and also depend on what public opinion is. However, I would point out that Germany, for example, has made an unprecedented decision, that the 30-year policy has been completely reversed, that they have even granted aid to Ukraine. This has in fact required a great deal of them to change the policy that public opinion has supported. Sweden, which has actually been neutral all along, has also provided assistance to Ukraine. These are unprecedented steps. We need to understand that governments in all countries will decide, given the support [for these steps] in the democratic process. Now I'm coming to those narratives. It's very good that you brought it out, because I also see the risk of these narratives spreading. For example, what Putin has built for 20 years, saying that the West has gone down morally, and the West is under enormous migration pressure. By creating a situation where war refugees come from Ukraine on a massive scale, these two things come together that there is, in fact, great migratory pressure. What I might want to put to the heart of your party, too, is that war refugees are not really our enemies, they are victims of the same war. We have to help them now, we have to help them to go back and make this war stop. We are not going to stir up hatred for those war refugees who come from Ukraine and who are victims of the same war, as well as the victims of Putin, not our enemies. That is what I think is important. All these things have to be noticed. It is very right, as you say, that one of Putin's interests is also to create a discontent in society, to destabilise society, to cause us to take on each other as if, even though our threat is actually out, and we should stick together just to be ready to react strongly to help Ukraine together so that Ukraine can win this war and this war does not extend further. We can also make our allies do more to help Ukraine end the war. As long as this war continues, we haven't done enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U192	And now two additional questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U193	Good manager! Sire! There's been a food supply problem. The Minister of Foreign Affairs believed that 15 tonnes of Ukrainian daily aid was, in fact, 15,000 tonnes. The Ukrainians have been concerned that European countries could supply them with this simple thing, like fuel, but unfortunately it is not [help] moving. This 15 000 tonnes per day, which the Ukrainians currently need, means about 300 grams per face, taking into account the population of the European Union as a whole, and can make estimates of how much Estonia has [possible to provide food aid]. Has the government tried to take into account how much Estonia, at least for its part, can help with food aid every day, and to make it clear to colleagues, other prime ministers, that this would work? It's a small thing, but it's also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U194	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U195	Thank you. I very much agree with you that this is really one thing that needs to help Ukraine. I may review once that Estonia has provided nearly 14 million euros of aid to Ukraine by the beginning of this week. I'm talking purely about humanitarian aid. Of this, the state's contribution has been EUR 1.4 million, the private sector has contributed EUR 12.5 million, so this is really the contribution of society as a whole. The aid granted by the Estonian state to Ukraine has been EUR 5151735 in food aid, a figure of 11 April. In addition, we have provided medical and accommodation assistance. We have provided this assistance through international organisations, which means that we have given it through international organisations, because it is important that it arrives and really helps people. The United Nations and the Red Cross are the way we do it. With the additional budget, this humanitarian aid is to be increased by EUR 3 million. One thing is to collect and assemble food aid, but the other is to ensure that the channels through which this aid can be delivered are still there in Ukraine. This is, as we know, a major problem and our hands are short there, which is why we have worked together with these large international organisations. But we have also talked to other leaders about food aid, so how to do more, how to make these humanitarian corridors, so that it can reach those in need. But really, an exceptionally big problem is still in those regions that are completely surrounded. Russia will not allow the civilian population to be helped. It's a war crime if you're deliberately trying to attack civilians, it's a war crime under international law. But yes, we're working on food aid and trying to get it to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U196	Now, please, another supplementary question, Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U197	Thank you very much, Chairman. Prime Minister! Sanctions are, in fact, one type of support and should actually say that we have, I mean Europe as a whole, been relatively poor in implementing them. A large number of Russian banks are out of sanction. Not all Russian banks are excluded from the SWIFT system and we really need to talk about oil and gas. We have not actually done much better ourselves, although we can say with concessions that we have been lucky for Europe. But let me give you an example of how we wanted to prevent Russian goods from reaching Estonia and prohibited the movement of Russian cars with registration marks. However, cars with plates from Germany, Sweden, Serbia and other countries can bring these goods in the same way and nothing has really changed. In essence, it is not even half an egg, but maybe a quarter or a tenth of an egg. So obviously it was an inadequate solution and such a seeming solution. The same is true of our gas consumption. We have said that we do not consume Russian gas, but we know that the private companies that bring gas in can refuse to bring Russian gas first and foremost when the government has clearly imposed sanctions, that is, prohibited imports of Russian gas. Otherwise, they'll have to keep these long-term contracts, and that gas will still run here at some point. My question is: when does the government intend to ban imports of Russian gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U198	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U199	Thank you. I agree very much with you. If sanctions are very harsh, there is a greater likelihood that they will end this war because, in fact, the money is being cut off. If we know that 40% of Russia's budget is precisely the source of oil, gas and coal, this is the place through which the war machine can be squeezed the most. Of this income, in turn, 60% is oil, so even more than gas. The reason why we have pushed these sanctions at European level is precisely because if one does and the other does not, we will not be able to ensure that they are implemented. Gas is a good example. Previously, the question was that if someone else has bought Russian gas in this Inčukalns storage facility, even if we impose a sanction on our entrepreneurs, these molecules will still be confused there. It doesn't help that we do it alone. And it's clear that we've decided to give up Russian gas. I also know this problem that businesses want this sanction to be clearly imposed, but we are now pressing for it to be Europe-wide. The European idea is that our gas consumption is very low, 5 terawatt-hours, and it has no [sufficiently strong] effect. For this reason, we have decided that we are not doing this now, that Russian gas is not coming to Estonia at the moment. We've made that decision. If we have to, we'll make a separate sanction on it. In the meantime, however, we are still trying to press for a Europe-wide sanction to be imposed precisely because there would be a greater impact. As far as land transport is concerned, the land transport sanction applied on Saturday, and indeed, Russian cars are being returned with goods and can no longer be transported from Russia [here]. There are, of course, a great many goods that are out of the question of sanctions. For example, if an Estonian entrepreneur brings [goods] from Russia, this will not be sanctioned because [land transport carried out with Russian license plates only] is sanctioned. I agree with you in the sense that the more areas we hit and the more we squeeze [Russia], the sooner this thing ends in the end. I also wanted to say about these sanctions that on Tuesday we just went over how this implementation is still happening, where we still have some gaps and who controls implementation. It's complicated. The more sanctions there are, the more authorities have to deal with them. And the last thing, if I may stop, tomorrow we are going to discuss the activities of state companies in the government office, so that, even if they do, how is it supposed to be correct [to work] so that state companies are not involved in such activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U200	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U201	Let's move on to question four. Raivo Tamm, a member of the Riigikogu, answers this, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the topic is the external communication of the Reform Party. Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I might extend this issue to external communication at all. It pushes you to say that until Ukraine has won the war, no sanction has been sufficient. I think that an end to external relations with Russia could also be called a sanction. A letter signed by 11 delegates was sent to the Foreign Minister to send Putin's representative, the Russian Ambassador, out of Estonia. We have not received any feedback on whether this letter has arrived at all. As far as I know, there has been no answer or response. I would like to hear from you, as leader of the Reform Party, and from the Prime Minister, that, at this point in time, such an external communication is necessary. Does this not fall under the sanctions that we could do for our part and put an end to external communication at this level?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U203	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U204	Thank you. Now, if I get this straight, you're thinking of shutting down the diplomatic representation at all, or...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U205	Can't [over question], I'm sorry, I don't have a chance [to allow it]. This is the question and answer [score]. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U206	Okay, I'll answer more generally then. You can specify in the follow-up question. Firstly, I am very much of the view that Russia must be politically isolated, a very clear message that Russia is a pariah and there is no point in communicating with it. Now, the question you had about the expulsion of diplomats. We have sent out three diplomatic and 14 consular staff and closed down the consulates of Narva and Tartu. This is part of the big picture where all European countries are taking these steps. This is usually followed by a reaction from Russia. By now, we have the deputy head of the embassy. The ambassador is still here. Similarly, we still have our own ambassador in Russia, but it is important to get adequate information from there. I do not consider it right to communicate with Russia on a high level these days, as it would send the wrong signal. We still need to isolate Russia as much as possible from all international organisations. It is a pleasure to note that we have been fortunate enough to see Russia thrown out of the UN Human Rights Council, and that has been done. We have also been lucky that Russia was expelled from the Council of Europe. I'm sure there's more of them. What is important is that the signal that Russia receives is very coherent.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U207	And now let's move on to an additional question. It's presented by Kalle Grünthal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Sire! There's a defense minister in your government like Kalle Laane. I've met him twice about Mali. The first time was on 11 January when he was in ELIAK and came to talk about the fact that there is no Russian army in Mali and there is no Wagner. I turned it over with France News' video application and photographs of it. The second time I addressed the issue of Mali here in the Riigikogu when I asked Kalle Laanet if anything had been done with the two Spanish soldiers who broke the national flag of Estonia on the Malian military base. And on Monday there was a case where I walked in the hallway of the Riigikogu and came after Kalle Laane and said this: "If you do not finish this issue on Mali, your son, who serves as a professional military officer in the Estonian Defence Forces, will go badly. " Have we reached such a level, Sire, that civil servants, members of the Riigikogu, will be affected by family ties? What level is that? Are we back in Stalin's time? Is it gonna last like this? What are you going to do with your secretary of defense so that things like this don't happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U209	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U210	Thank you. Kalle Laane is an exceptionally warm and handsome person. I find it very hard to believe that he has said something like that to you. That sounds more like your handwriting. Maybe I'm wrong, but as far as I know, you've shared the address of my home, for example, to invite people there to teach me a so-called lesson. Maybe you can disprove it here that it hasn't been like this. But it seems, yes, rather your handwriting. I don't think he's ever come here to threaten you, the way you put it here. Kalle Laane acts as Minister of Defence and is ready to answer any questions. We have nothing to be ashamed of about Mali, we've been there with our allies. Mali, by the way, is a good example of how the [objective] of Russia's activities is, more broadly than only in Ukraine or in Syria, through Wagner soldiers, to recreate unrest, discontent and also the migration of peoples. So Putin actually operates on all fronts. Fighting with our allies in Mali has also given our Defence Forces a good experience and has been right in the period we have been there. By now, we have decided to leave there with our allies. So, yes, I find it very difficult to believe your accusations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U211	And now, please, another supplementary question, Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U212	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Now, please, straight ahead. I'll get to the foreign issue, too, but we need to focus first. As far as Kalle Laanet or Kalle Grünthal is concerned, given how systematically and irreconcilably the Reform Party always lies, you must always believe Kalle first. But we were talking here earlier, and I asked you if this metamorphosis of this state, when you were in opposition, was a very expensive budget balance, to the present state, where the budget is likely to be in the greatest minus of all time, was also painful. Well, obviously it was because you didn't even want to address it. You came to me saying I had an empty budget cut. You see, this budget cut was supposed to be empty because this forecast, this deficit forecast, was awkwardly wrong. It should be awkward for you, of course, to keep repeating this lie all the time and trying to keep it alive, and, of course, it must be embarrassing for forecasters. This forecast did not materialise and we already know today that our time forecast proved to be twice as high as the actual minus came. Our biggest minus was about 5.5% in 2020, or the worst year of the corona. And in 2021, for which I made the last budget, it was 3.8%. Today I received a forecast from the Ministry of Finance, which shows a minus 3% in 2022, without an additional budget, which doubles this deficit. So during your reign, Estonia has the biggest budget deficit of all time, and you are still explaining something here about how I left the money in the mix. I have a question, too. How do you think it will affect Estonia's external communication if we have a prime minister who, both domestically and abroad, is spreading the wrong about the Estonian state's finances in order to blackmail the Minister for Finance of the previous government?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U213	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U214	Thank you. First of all, I must disappoint you, but internationally you have absolutely no interest. None of you will talk about it and ask about it, so I have no reason to think about it either. But when we came to Estonia, the fact is that when you were the Minister of Finance and these were good times, there was no crisis, there was a budget deficit of 1.34 billion, or 5% of gross domestic product. Last year, when our government came, we were able to reduce this budget deficit to EUR 0.74 billion. Perhaps it has actually been very difficult to reduce it. You admit that you made the state budget so that you put a bluff in it. And I wouldn't blame those people for making predictions. There is no reason to doubt the forecasts. Even if they're a percentage of that or a percentage of that difference, it's important that you went very systematically [make] more expenses than actually there were revenues. In the case of the state budget, no one is opposed to the deficit when times are difficult. The framework law of our state budget also states that if the economy is acting under its own powers, it must be boosted, also through loans and all kinds of deficits. But the problem is that you did it in good times when there was no need for encouragement, but actually needed countercyclical action. That is why we went into two very difficult crises in deficit with a budget, i.e. no buffers had been collected. And there's no way to get out stronger. Just like in the financial crisis. Why did Latvia and Lithuania do worse than we did? Why didn't they recover as quickly as Estonia recovered? But for the reason that the Reform Party government had collected buffers, it had collected reserves. We faced crises with surpluses, which led us to emerge more easily from these crises. For you, Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance have probably also shown these forecasts how this time it will be much harder because the deficit with which we faced the crisis was so great.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U215	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. A procedural question, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U216	Thank you. I have such a procedural remark that there was a crisis in 2020, a corona crisis. The budget made in 2021, which he just praised, that the minus went down nicely, was mine and that the sitting government had no thing to do with it, [they] had nothing to do with it. And spending buffers, by the way, goes into structural minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U217	Let us move on to question five. It is presented by Riigikogu member Anti Poolamets, corresponding to the Minister of Education and Research Liina Kersna, the subject is Ukrainian-language education. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm gonna start a historic field trip. We know the difficult history of Ukraine, we know the genocides, not in singularity, but in plurals, which have been committed against them, still for the same purpose, to destroy the Ukrainian national feeling, to destroy the possibility of statehood, to destroy culture. It started long before that brutal assault. The Ukrainian language has suffered in the same way. During the Soviet period the Ukrainian language could be studied on a limited scale, in schools the development of Ukrainian was prevented, the process of Russification was much stronger than in Estonia. In my opinion, when we see that a large proportion of Ukrainian students have gone to Estonian school and part of Russian school, our priority should be to help them learn the most, if not one hundred percent, Ukrainian language, because the President of Ukraine is waiting for his people to return home. He doesn't want them scattered around the world. The sooner they get home, the better. They all want to get home. It is elementary that we give them the opportunity to learn Ukrainian right now, whether it is distance learning or some other format, for once Russians. First of all, how many teachers are there who can teach Ukrainian? And is it also one of your priorities to provide children with Ukrainian-language education right now and now, not to direct them to Russian school and similarly not to make them learn the hard Estonian language immediately, but to [make them feel at home and be able to return to their home schools soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U219	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U220	Thank you for your question. Firstly, according to the Ukrainian official records, more than 950 educational establishments have been severely affected by military activities, while 88 educational establishments have been completely bombarded. And as I said, more than 10,000 [Ukraine] educational institutions offer their children distance learning worldwide. There are also children in Estonia who study on the Ukrainian distance learning platform. There are also several schools where Ukrainian-speaking teachers or assistant teachers have been hired to help children participate in teaching both through the distance learning platform and mostly in Estonian-speaking schools. I have not heard of a Member State of the European Union making separate Ukrainian-speaking schools for children of Ukrainian refugees. For example, if, for example, we have already met several times with the Ministers of Education in Europe and we have discussed the education and practice of the children of the Ukrainian refugee war, everyone has said that they are integrating the children of the refugee war into the existing education system. We have countries [where a Ukrainian school already exists]. For example, in Latvia, for 20 years, the Ukrainian upper secondary school has been operating, but Latvians also say and have adopted a separate law that, since autumn, children can only study in Latvian-language schools, so that they can integrate and learn [local] language more quickly. But I agree with you in the sense that the mother tongue must be honored. It is also important to enable them to learn the distance learning platform and to make good use of the [war generation] educational staff who have arrived here to teach the children Ukrainian language and literature. This is certainly important because we know from research that if the child's native language is supported, he or she will learn other languages better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U221	And now for the additional question. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U222	Thank you. I heard a very interesting hint that no one has set up a Ukrainian school, hence Poland. I don't really know [is that so], you may not know all the details either. Nevertheless, I would like the idea that we are the first to show the greatest respect. We will provide them with excellent arms support, but we could also provide excellent language support to the Ukrainian people under your control and be proud to report to the Ukrainian Minister for Education that we provide them with the best education in Ukrainian. I recall how Estonian refugees did in German refugee camps. They set up their upper secondary schools, even their own university, and it kept their spirits up after leaving their hard country and also kept Estonians up. The same goes for the Ukrainians. We'll be the first ones, give them the maximum. After all, Ukrainian classes can also be performed if they are in sufficient numbers at the Estonian school, i.e. to find a teacher and give them a classroom at the same school, where full-scale Ukrainian-language education and even double-scale if you want culture, history and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U223	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U224	Thank you. Indeed, the Polish minister, the last time we met, said that they had reached 700000 children and about 60,000 of them were already integrated into the education system. Poland is a neighbouring country of Ukraine and therefore there were Ukrainian-speaking schools in Poland before the war. They have not created Ukrainian-speaking schools specifically for war refugees, but because they are a neighbouring country of Ukraine, they have already had a large Ukrainian-speaking community there before and have also directed children to Ukrainian-speaking schools. But not only have they also directed children into the Polish education system. We certainly consider it important for children to learn Ukrainian language and literature, and the state will certainly ensure that children can also participate in distance learning platforms in Ukrainian. Schools have provided computers for children, and children can also participate in distance learning in libraries. Just recently I went to Ristik Elementary School, for example, and there were two computers in the library behind which Ukrainian children sometimes go to the distance learning platform for education. And, of course, as far as Estonia has reached the Ukrainian language and literature teachers, they will all be able to apply. If they want to work, they will certainly be able to apply because it is very important to keep a native language. But I am absolutely different from the view that we should let these children study only in Ukrainian. By doing so, we take away the opportunity to participate in Estonian education and participate in society. Language is extremely important in order to succeed in Estonia, and we do not really know how long the Ukrainians will stay here. Over 900 educational establishments have suffered from warfare. We really don't know what to say. We need to be prepared to keep these children here longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U225	Mr. Pier, I understand there was a microphone problem. May I ask the Minister of Education and Science to knock on it for a moment? Sounds like the voice's back. (Liina Kersna: "Unstable. ") Let us now go to two additional questions. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U226	Thank you. I hope the microphone stays on now. Ukraine was and is in a deep demographic crisis. Even without war, the population has fallen by around 16% over 20 years and if a smaller proportion of refugees return home after the war, their number will decrease by 30% and the number of children by 56% by 2040. These are the results of a survey of the demographers at St Andrews University. If we want Ukraine to do good, we must make every effort to ensure that refugees return to their homeland after the war. We have to help them in this, not integrate them here. Children must be given Ukrainian-language education, not Estonian-language education, and indeed Russian-language education. The Estonian language should be one subject, of course one important subject, but not the fact that all education is in Estonian. Putting children in an Estonian-language school carries the goal of embracing them here and using their parents as a cheap labour force, and it is precisely the aim that they do not go back. Why have you chosen this path to the detriment of Ukraine? I would add to your previous answer that we do not have to do what other countries do. You claimed that Ukrainian education would not be given. Let us show that we are true friends of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U227	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U228	Thank you. We want those children and families who have reached Estonia to feel good about themselves in Estonia and to be able to cope in Estonian society as long as they can return to their homes, back to Ukraine. All war refugees hope that this will happen as soon as possible so that they can return to Ukraine as soon as possible. But we don't know when they can really go back. In order for them to feel well during their time in Estonia and to become part of our society, it is important that both adults and children, who learn the language much faster, learn the language as soon as possible and go back to Ukraine even smarter when they came here. Even richer, richer with one foreign language. No tongue runs down the sides. We in Estonia, however, have very many good friends from Ukraine, who have very good memories of Estonia, as well as good memories of schools. They are definitely going back to Ukraine. I have also assured the Ukrainian Minister of Education every time that Ukraine will, of course, get its children back. But they will get these children back even richer when they got here because these children have acquired basic knowledge of Estonian and they have become part of Estonia's very good education system. Today, speaking to children who are in our Estonian education system, they are very pleased. They like the Estonian education system. I believe that our schools are ready to receive and support these children very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U229	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U230	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Wednesday session of the 11th working week of the 7th plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U231	Honourable representative of the people! On behalf of 84 members of the Riigikogu, I will hand over the draft statement of the Riigikogu on "the war crimes and genocide of the Russian Federation in Ukraine." The petitioners propose that the Estonian Riigikogu recognise the systematic and mass war crimes that took place in the Russian Federation's war of aggression as a genocide act and invite all other parliaments in the world to do so. Lithuania adopted a decision on this last night, and Verhhovna Rada will discuss a referral to the world parliaments tomorrow. The official list of these crimes by the Ukrainian authorities is available on 40 pages. I sent it to our Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it is possible to read it as sensitive information. I would like to thank those legal scientists who voluntarily contributed to the legal reasoning of the text of this decision: Dr Jevgeni Tsülenko, former Attorney General Norman Aas and legal scientist Maria Hrabarchuk. I am sorry that this text came before Members and political forces at the last minute. But the work really went through the night, the text was finalised and formalized. There is a war going on, and we need to act quickly and operationally. The recognition of genocide means that we recognise these war crimes as Russia's inspiration to destroy the Ukrainian people. International law follows the principle of Rwandan genocide and the obligation of states and the international community to intervene more. There is NATO Article 5, but if we stand against genocide, the nations of the world have a moral obligation to make humanity an article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U232	I don't see any more wishes. The Bureau will, of course, decide on the further processing of this draft in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U233	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U234	We will begin the review of today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education initiated by the Conservative People's Party Group. Members of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge are welcome to the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U236	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U237	I'll keep going. Yesterday, a law was very regrettable, which was defective in form and very harmful in content. And...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U238	Ladies and gentlemen, The buzz is really big right now, so Mr. White can't even hear his own voice in this chair. (Voice of the floor: "Talk louder. ") So, I put my microphone in now, so he can hear me better. But I'm really asking for silence in the hall because Mr. White can't even hear his own voice right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U239	The only acceptable part of the law that was adopted yesterday was that of the Ukrainian refugees, which could, moreover, have been regulated differently. However, this draft has been launched in January and does not concern Ukrainian refugees, but we will indirectly improve the situation of Ukrainian refugees on our labour market with the same draft. So it would now be possible for those ambassadors who voted in favour of this defective draft yesterday, of course, to at least partially rehabilitate themselves by supporting this draft, I hope that the President will not announce it. The aim of this draft is to direct employers to recruit foreign workers, in particular, for those jobs that require qualified workers. On the basis of valid fixed-term residence permits and registration of short-term employment, working foreigners in Estonia currently make up 3 to 4% of the employed, which is, I will hurry up a bit, the circuma one and a half times less if we have registered unemployed, who were over 46000 as of March. In addition, we also have Ukrainian refugees, of whom the circa 2000 is of working age, I cannot say exactly. They have received temporary protection and can also be employed against a minimum wage. Of these, 3215 had been registered as unemployed yesterday. Okay. The number of job vacancies per person registered as unemployed is 0.2, about one per person registered as unemployed. The aim of this draft is to limit the flow of immigration only to qualified workers, those of whom there is a shortage in the Estonian labour market. The second objective is to rule out the possibility of working with domestic workers and now the Ukrainian refugees being replaced by lower-paid workers employed abroad. As you know, there are a number of exceptions in the Aliens Act which are not subject to this wage criterion, which is proposed in the draft. This bill does not change that. For example, a teacher, a research worker, a posted worker, a domestic worker, a start-up employee, an employee who has obtained a qualification or a higher education in Estonia, is not subject to the wage criterion proposed in this draft. In short, there are many exceptions to which this wage criterion does not apply, and these exceptions are precisely laid down on the basis of the needs of the Estonian labour market. Of course, this draft does not in any way restrict the labour migration of citizens of the European Union or persons residing in the European Union on the basis of their permanent right of residence. This means that immigration of workers with the average wage required for Estonia is essentially not limited and does not restrict the immigration of specialists, because we need good specialists and it would be illogical to think that the average salary of a good specialist is less than 1.5 Estonian average wages. Once again, this bill does not restrict the recruitment of refugees in Estonia, but because it restricts the recruitment of other foreigners, it indirectly creates even a better situation for refugees in our labour market. Thus, the first objective of the draft was to raise the average wage requirement to 1.5 of the Estonian average as well as to increase the wage requirement for short-term workers to 1.5 of the Estonian average as a general rule of labour migration. All right, let's go. The draft reduces the period of short-term employment allowed in Estonia to six months instead of 270 days for seasonal workers who may be paid the minimum wage. According to the definition of a government regulation, the season must be linked to a fixed period of time per year when demand for labour is significantly higher due to the season than at other times. It doesn't make sense that the season itself is longer than the rest of the season. The Annex to this regulation, where the activities considered to be seasonal work are counted, is in itself contrary to the definition of the season, as there is also the production of non-alcoholic drink in addition to agricultural work. Well, is the production of non-alcoholic beverages really a seasonal job? Obviously not. I consulted agricultural scientists who said that there was no seasonal work in agriculture that would last more than six months. Maybe somewhere in the south there's a longer period of vegetation, but we don't. The second half of the draft is the amendment of the Higher Education Act. The draft complements the Higher Education Act by requiring all foreign students who have a legal basis for temporary stay for study in Estonia or who have obtained a temporary residence permit for study, with the exception of nationals of a Member State of the European Union, of a Member State of the European Economic Area, of the Swiss Confederation or of a Member State of the OECD Organisation who study at first or second level. Unless these, say, third-country nationals study very much in Estonian, they do not need to be charged tuition fees. I would like to point out that, of course, neither the citizens of the European Union nor the doctoral candidates should be required to pay the costs of studies. It would be logical that we do not apply the obligation to reimburse the costs of studies immediately, but only the next or perhaps the following academic year. So there's time. After the first reading, we could propose another amendment to this draft, so that it does not concern Ukrainian students, as is currently the case. Okay. In addition, the bill regulates the time when a foreign student may invite a spouse to live with him or her and when the residence permit of a person who has taken up the student will be revoked if that person simply no longer studies here. This time was not regulated before, according to this bill it is 30 days. Okay. These provisions of the Law on Higher Education are amended for the reason that our universities do not become migration pumps. Okay. As you can see, this is a very fundamental draft, although the draft itself might need to be updated in the light of new processes and adopted legislation. One of the things that really is here is that Ukrainian students should not be affected by it. On the other hand, immigration is always fresh. Now I'm gonna explain to you why. I'm sure we've repeatedly put forward these arguments, but I'm offering them to you once again systematically, grouping these four groups. First, the first group, the economic arguments. Economics is known to distinguish three groups of factors of production or economic resources: natural, economic and human resources, including entrepreneurship. According to the principles of the market economy, the optimal combination of these factors of production is the basis for the organisation of rational production, for progress. This is the way in which choices are made that ensure that economic activity meets the opportunities and needs of society, as well as innovations in the economy. Okay. Changing one production factor from above, precisely to allow this cheap influx of labour, I am not talking about a highly skilled workforce, but precisely about the introduction of cheap and medium-paid labour, which deviates from the principle of a market economy. If an analogy were used, for example, the introduction of cheap labour would be the same if our country were required to produce cheap raw materials, raw materials that are cheaper than the established price level. What would we call it? The claims that we are somewhere like this, and so many workers are missing, are completely incomprehensible in this sense that if you bring me a hundred employees, let's say who works for a very small salary, I'll put them to work, and I'll arrange this company. Such a deviation from the market economy principle favours the activities of companies using cheaper labour at the expense of other companies and does not in any way favour renewal. I am not blaming entrepreneurs here because they are going this way, which is easier for them. This is the basic concept of business. However, it is our duty here to create a framework for entrepreneurship that will guide entrepreneurship towards innovation. I would like to point out here that our average labour productivity is only four fifths of the euro area average, which means that if we raise average labour productivity to an average level in the euro area, which should happen when we modernise the economy, we will get more than 150,000 more workers. Forward, social policy arguments. I recall that the proportion of our population of foreign origin, which comes from the period of occupation, is still one of Europe's largest. We have taught them, with great effort and time, some of those people who have a second mother tongue to speak the Estonian language, and their social and political behaviour is somewhat closer to that of the indigenous population, however, let us say that only somewhat. The integration of the population of foreign origin into Estonian society as an objective is still relatively far away. We now also have Ukrainian refugees to deal with. But if the mass immigration continues, as has been the case so far, it will all become negligible. At least to some extent, security, people-to-people trust and cooperation also suffer in our society. All right, let's go. Wage growth in Estonia has been relatively rapid, but if we look at real wages, we must say not so fast. The rise in prices will absorb wage growth, and the import of labour will certainly slow wage growth. As I said before, we have 46000 registered unemployed. As unemployment decreases, the burden on the state budget will actually decrease. Onward, more about the social policy arguments. After all, every immigrant who has come to live permanently here as a working age uses social services, and let us not forget that his or her non-working family members also come with him. The employment rate of immigrants is usually well below the average. Estonia's pension costs, let's not forget, are now so high because of past immigration, because the birth rate in the eastern Slavic countries is lower, and if Estonia has a higher birth rate than in the eastern Slavic countries, and the pattern of birth rate behaviour there is brought to Estonia, just as it has happened and is happening now, that means that we are creating a higher tax burden on our children. Thus, the promotion of immigration is at the expense of the future of our children. Thirdly, security policy arguments. I don't think I need to talk about this for a long time. It is reasonable to believe that in the case of such mass immigration as it has been, not all those who arrive can be controlled. I think that would certainly be necessary now, because there is a flood of refugees, they need to be controlled. But as extensive a mass immigration as we have had should be narrowed down so that refugees can be received properly. Fourthly, if you like, national policy or constitutional arguments. These relate in particular to the extent of immigration. In recent years, we have moved 4 000 to 5 000 people from the countries of Eastern Slavic culture and from Asia and Africa, mostly more than they have left. These are the data of the Estonian Statistical Office, which may be adjusted. I don't have any better data to take, nobody has any better data to take right now. We are waiting for the results of the census, we are waiting for the data for 2021, but according to preliminary reports from Statistics Estonia, it can be assumed that the order of magnitude was similar to the previous one in 2021. I'm pointing out there's no count of refugees here. A positive migration balance of this magnitude means mass immigration, that is what it means. This same lower level of wages caused by immigration hinders the return of our people from abroad, to which they have been led by an earlier incorrect economic policy. Already in 2020, according to Statistics Estonia, a positive trend turned to the other side, which means that 6900 Estonian citizens left Estonia and 5900 returned. This trend has turned. If we continue with such low-cost labour and immigration, it will certainly deepen. We do not know more about the latest data, but we do know that the share of Estonian-speaking people in the population fell in 2021, before the arrival of Ukrainian refugees. Yes, check the Estonian Statistical Office's [page], where the "Estonian 2035" action plan measures are available: the share of Estonians has fallen. So each of these four groups of reasons alone would be enough to be in favour of this bill. If anything needs to be changed, it is possible to propose improvements. To conclude, the majority of society clearly does not want mass immigration. At the same time, I expect this to be one of the key issues in the next parliamentary elections. In subsequent elections to the Riigikogu, political parties who have promoted mass immigration will not be voted for. It is logical to believe that the seats of the Riigikogu will be reduced in these government departments because they have promoted mass immigration. There are fewer seats for them, a large part of them cannot and it is difficult to find work elsewhere, because there are few vacancies due to mass immigration. So coalition ambassadors should have a totally personal motive to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U240	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Mart Helme starts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U241	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Jack! We do not have data from the last census, but we do have current statistics. Have you done any arithmetic on the basis of this current statistics, how much we have, let's say, added to the population of foreign origin in the last two years, and how are they distributed? I have another question, too. I'm taking this opportunity. How are these demographic processes reflected in our education, especially in the higher education landscape?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U242	Yes, thank you! I have immigration records. It is possible to extract the balance of migration from the tables of the Statistical Office. As I pointed out, in the last few years, it has been a plus 4,000 to 5,000 every year. This means, in turn, we are now excluding 2021, which we do not yet know, but it is likely that the migration balance will be even higher in 2021, that in the three years preceding 2021, some 12000 people of foreign origin were added to us. I have, of course, excluded the returning Estonians, as well as the citizens of the European Union, whose migration balance is broadly balanced, as far as citizens come to live here from the European Union, as much as they leave, it is balanced. The balance of migration is positive for persons from eastern Slavic countries and persons from Asia and Africa, with an average annual migration rate of 4000 to 5000 [people]. As far as higher education is concerned, it is basically the recruitment of foreign students to Estonian higher education institutions, provided that they are accepted by a real competition and accepted by the best, and also provided that they are taught the Estonian language in some way during the studio, certainly positive. But unfortunately, these two assumptions are not fulfilled. This, in turn, means that foreign students cannot understand Estonian during the course of the studio and it is difficult for them to find a good job later on in the Estonian labour market, or to find a job at all. On the basis of the latest data, it seems again that about half of them leave Estonia after graduation. As far as we have data so far, they show that, for example, for graduates of master's level, the pay of graduates from abroad is 10 to 20%, but I do not remember exactly, but lower in this order than for graduates of master's level from Estonia. This means that it is not practical to recruit foreign students in this form, it is in no way practical for them or for the Estonian state to be [from the point of view].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U243	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The root of this draft is, in the sense of law, the crown, the Stone Age, until 2020, when it was first dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I remember clearly that the Defence Police then made a very unambiguous assessment that migration, as such, must be restricted in the case of labour and learning mobility, because in addition to these "workers" and "trainers," there are sometimes family members of those who form their communities, resulting in social groups that may be a threat to public order. A prominent example is perhaps Sweden here. But my question is how you assess this bill, let's say, in terms of keeping this migration pump open or closing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U245	Thank you. It's an extremely constructive question, extraordinarily. This is a bill that I very much appreciate in terms of security policy. Let's just say that this bill doesn't bring about such upheavals in security policy. It cannot be said that we are adopting this bill and that our internal security is improving sharply, but it is a step in the right direction. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U246	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the second objective set out in the draft explanatory memorandum, which is to stop the English-speaking process of Estonian universities. I firmly believe that the international learning environment is precisely what guarantees and enhances the quality of the learning offered by universities. You're a university faculty yourself. I do not understand why you constantly oppose the aspirations of Estonian higher education institutions to provide a modern learning environment. I was wondering if, in the wind of this bill, Estonian students' desire to study elsewhere, to go to foreign schools, should perhaps be limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U248	Thank you very much for these two questions too. They are very relevant. I will try to answer the other side of the question first. Look, when Estonian students go to foreign universities, they do not require that they are taught there in Estonian. It's their personal choice, and it all depends on foreign university. There are many different examples. For example, a bachelor's degree in Danish universities or a Bachelor's degree in Danish top universities are taught only in Danish. Secondly, we love to compare ourselves with Finland. The Estonian University of Excellence is undoubtedly the University of Tartu, and I hope that you will agree with it, and the Finnish University of Excellence is the University of Helsinki. If you take out the university ranking CWUR, which is the most prestigious ranking, and you look at the place of the University of Helsinki, the answer is that the University of Helsinki is in the first 100, indeed, at the end of the first 100. If you look at where the University of Tartu is, then [the answer is that] the University of Tartu is at the end of the first 200, somewhere between 250 and 300. If you look from the same table at how many foreign students there are at the University of Helsinki, you will receive a response of 6%, and if you look at how many foreign students there are at the University of Tartu, you may be surprised, but the answer is 12%. In short, the University of Helsinki is a much better university than the University of Tartu, but at the same time there are fewer foreign students. Now I will try to answer the second question. Look, there are obviously specializations where learning in English is practical. In part, this is also the case now because it has already been done in the past because it is difficult to find Estonian-language lecturers in English, for example, in many IT specialties. That means it's hard to reverse. But I believe that we were both at this meeting of the Committee on Culture, where the Council of Rectors offered such data that training one doctoral student costs the Estonian Treasury EUR 100000. But teaching one doctoral student Estonian costs 5,000 euros, right? If we assume that these doctoral students will benefit the Estonian state and society once they have learned the Estonian language, this investment would be very necessary. In short, what I'm saying is that internationalization doesn't equal English-speaking. Those are two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U249	Mr. Semimets, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U250	Yeah, I have a procedure. I like it when people are genuinely interested in the subject, but somehow it happens that there are still two questions, but others have one question nicely. We could stop by asking the right number of questions, not by throwing ten questions like a cluster bomb and taking away the others' questions. I would point out that this could be followed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U251	Mr. Semimets, there's a minute to ask a question. What a member of the Riigikogu will do in this one minute, whether he will make a long introduction, and in the last five seconds he will ask the question or try to put more questions in one minute, is his right. Similarly, the respondent has the right to choose only one question from there or to try to answer all questions. I will not say before the President whether there is one question, two or three questions. Of course, the Rules of Procedure say there is one question, but there may be more facets on the subject. We have not had any problems with this before and I believe that we will not have any problems in the future. The Chamber of Riigikogu has probably seen different approaches from all the questioners. This is not the first time you try to answer a few questions or two thoughts in one question or one minute. Mr. Woodland, you also have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U252	Yes, Mr President, a very good explanation. It is understandable and understandable. However, there could also be a principal addition to this: should we consider that it is entirely legal, ethical and correct, that if there are several questions, the answer will make his own choice and some questions will not be answered, only one question will be answered? Is it ethical, correct and correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U253	You know, my eyes here have seen all kinds of questions and all kinds of answers. I have heard and seen questions that have nothing to do with the subject, and I have heard and seen answers that do not come into contact with the question at all. So there's no way the manager's gonna change the order. I will continue to stick to the fact that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask and answer within one minute, and if the respondent does not reply at all, it is the right of the respondent not to reply. I just hope that everyone's ethical beliefs are based both on asking the question and on answering the question of how questions are asked and how answers are given. But I think we can move on with the questions. Urmas Reitelmann can prove it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U254	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! You said that the prospects of a person with no knowledge of the Estonian language, but who obtained higher education at the Estonian University, are rather poor on the Estonian labour market. Now, within a month, we have gained 3,200 people who would like to work in Estonia, but who are completely unintelligible. Then we have nearly 50,000 so-called unemployed people applying for some 7,000 jobs. Even if we say that half of them are not going to work and register only for the Health Insurance Fund, [it should be taken into account that] Maxima does not need endlessly warehouse workers who do not need Estonian, and about half of the jobs still assume that a person speaks Estonian. What is the hope for these unfortunate Ukrainians, who, in the light of today's law, would like to go to work, to find work outside the agricultural seasonal work? Or does the future seem pretty hopeless in their perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U255	Thank you. Yes, the question is very relevant. I'm gonna make some adjustments. According to the latest unemployment fund, we had a total of 46000 registered unemployed, including... I'm sorry, I'm sorry! Anyway, there are already Ukrainian refugees among the registered unemployed; they are there. There are currently 9500 job vacancies. But the point of your question is quite clear, and it doesn't mean a little bit here or there's not much to it. The answer is, we don't know the future. But it is clear that we are currently experiencing economic overheating, we are moving fast, we are experiencing exceptionally high inflation, which is forcing businesses to invest quickly, and that means that the need for work is much greater than usual. It is clear that the overheating of the economy will be followed by a cooling period. Whether it comes in the form of a crisis or simply because interest rates are being suppressed, we do not know at the moment. We hope that there will be no major crisis, but obviously this overheated situation cannot last forever. Okay. As has been said, the future cannot be predicted, but social scientists can clearly say that when a crisis arrives, the most recently employed will be fired at the earliest, and the refugees in Ukraine will then be hit. The current crises in Estonia have shown that people of foreign origin will be hit next. If we have a new labour situation, if we have a lot of cheap labour available, then of course this situation could change a little. Perhaps then our people's jobs will be lost because our people will not be willing to work on such cheap wages. But the final answer is yes, so this overheated situation can't last for long. When the normal situation comes, unemployment will begin and very likely it will start with Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U256	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I ask why the Conservative People's Party of Estonia wants this draft to create an insidious scheme to encourage an immigration pump. I refer here to point 5 of the draft, which says that if an alien has come here to study, his close relative may likewise receive a temporary residence permit, and if he fails to complete his curriculum, he will lose his temporary residence permit and his spouse will also lose his temporary residence permit. It means that all the other close relatives he's brought here might as well live here. It doesn't make any sense to me. I doubt they're all married. It means that their siblings, family members, can live here. Obviously, it's a dubious scheme. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U258	First of all, I very much welcome the constructive approach that you have now shown. Noting, of course, that there is some kind of insidious scheme here, indeed, I would not even feel any jealousy if you made such a correction to this bill that not only spouses are involved, but also other close relatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U259	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U260	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Jack! The Reform Party here talks all the time about smart and smart Estonia, which we should strive for. Can you explain why they hate this bill? After all, this would actually serve this purpose, which they themselves are always telling the people about before the elections. Why do their words and actions also differ on the issue that we are discussing here today? Is it some kind of political spite, a tantrum and revenge that is actually being sacrificed by our Estonian nation state, or is it suddenly foolishness and they really do not understand how much harm they are doing to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U261	Thank you very much, too, for this question. Let's just say there's a lot of options here, a lot of them. Some were already proposed by you, but maybe some combinations will come up, for example, that it is a mixture of maliciousness and stupidity. There's a lot of options. I think, and I am probably counting with you on the positive attitude and constructiveness of our Parliament. Now that it is understood that this draft should not be opposed, as it will enable our economy to be modernised or will lead our economy towards economic renewal through the legislative framework, I hope that the members of the government coalition will be on the road to improvement and will vote in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U262	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U263	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Jack! It's a little hope, isn't it? If Mart Võrguship has already agreed to read this bill, then perhaps there is hope that sensible proposals will be made and we will proceed. But I want to ask you how this bill could help us stop reading headlines like this. I quote here from the ERR portal of April 4th that the Senate of Tallinn decided that the university will not open six Estonian-language curricula in the coming autumn and will offer paid part-time learning on five curricula in the future. This is due to underfunding higher education. As we can see, the marginalisation of the Estonian language goes on with full-time in schools. What can we do about it, and will this law help us to reduce this problem even slightly?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U264	Yes, once again, thank you for such a very appropriate reference. This draft itself is not directed against the English-languageisation of higher education. I would point out that the English language of higher education does not mean internationalisation; it is two different things. But this bill contributes indirectly here. Contributes to the fact that, at present, our universities have largely become a springboard for many students from third countries to enter the European Union, when this draft reduces these jumpboard motivations, it also means that the university no longer has any reason to discriminate against Estonian-language curricula by favouring English-speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U265	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U266	Thank you very much, manager. Good waitress! Here's the question. Does this bill change anything about the electoral arrangements? I refer to the fact that we have, at the will of the liberal politician, a regime in which foreigners and third-country nationals are elected. The trick is: in order for us to choose in Estonia, we must have a permanent residence in Estonia, and it can also be held in the case of a temporary residence permit. So a fixed-term residence permit and associated permanent residence. Is there any way that this bill will touch or change the order?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U267	I thank you for this question and for this reference. Indeed, this is a whole set, a complex problem with the integration of the population of foreign origin and the fact that only those who are actually integrated can participate in the elections. This bill does not change anything here, but you are absolutely right, in the case of the mass immigration that we have had in recent years, especially during this government, and now also in the case of the wave of refugees, the issue of the local electoral electra obviously needs to be changed. The different question is whether the right to vote would then only be for citizens and also for citizens of the European Union at local elections, as is the case in most European Union countries, or whether it would be sufficient to establish some form of locality censorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U268	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! This week, we witnessed the opening of the doors to cheap labor. We're on our way to prevent these things with the corresponding bill. But one moment I still kept scratching my soul. I know that the pressure on seasonal workers has been going on all the time, but still this downsizing of the pay of top specialists seems so unfair and gives me the impression that this is some kind of lobbying and law-buying activity. Do we not see behind it the ears of large technology companies and the desire to pressure coalition parties, or even by means of donations, or in any other way to achieve the goal of [that] cheap labour force from India or elsewhere? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U270	I find it difficult to answer this question meaningfully, but I think the hypotheses you have proposed are completely relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U271	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U272	Thank you. We have been trying to make it clear all the time that with migrant workers we will have top specialists and highly needed workers, that our economy will grow, that our country's tax receipts will rise and so on and so forth. However, only recently a study was published on Norway, which actually showed that, on the contrary, in all areas where migrant workers have been brought on a massive scale, wage levels have fallen and technological developments have stagnated, the country's tax revenues have decreased, social costs have increased and so on and so on. Can you explain how Estonia's situation regarding the use of mass migrant labour, as it is today, differs from that of Norway?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U273	Thank you very much. The answer is that the principles of the market economy, and also the labour market principles, apply in the same way everywhere. The Norwegian example you have given is actually one final example, one very graphic, colourful example, a recent fresh example. But economists have formulated this rule a long time ago. It was just one example that once again proved the known rule. Estonia and Norway are no different.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U274	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U275	Thank you. I have to say, of course, that there is no question in my eyes: people who are in favour of mass immigration to Estonia are Estonian haters, enemies of the Estonian people, renegades. I'm not giving them any discount here. In this light, I also see Monday's vote on the Aliens Act. It has been said here that education in English does not mean international education. There are several facets, but I am now asking about this aspect of education: has the fact that we have many English-language students, doctoral students and master's students, and we call it internationalisation, increased the quality of our universities as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U276	Thank you for your question. Indeed, at the level of the slogan it is somehow associated with the fact that the more foreign students, the better the quality of the university. This could theoretically be the case if these students were accepted on the basis of a rigorous competition if the best were accepted. Then it could be that way. But if basically everyone who goes through a very simple round of conversation and whose documents are in order is accepted, it certainly will not lead to an increase in the quality of universities. Not to mention that Estonian students must study in English. It is clear to everyone that learning in their mother tongue is always more productive and effective than learning in their non-native language. So let's say that, on the basis of the current model, as is currently happening in Estonia, the increase in the share of foreign students when they study in English does not lead to any increase in the quality of education. On the contrary, it reduces the quality of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U277	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Why don't you explain it a little bit again? Thanks to the Isamaa Party, Estonia has free higher education in Estonian. Am I right to understand that free-of-charge education in Estonian is what you support? But if a secondary university gives a master's or bachelor's degree in English and asks for money, is it okay or isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U279	Thank you for this clarification. The higher education model is a slightly different subject and a little more complicated. I cannot say that I fully support this model today. But now the other half of the question. If universities want to make money with their teaching, and it's purely business, it's purely business, and if they keep up with it, there can be nothing against it. However, if universities provide free English-language education for foreign students who leave Estonia after leaving school or even before, this is not useful either for the Estonian taxpayer or for the quality of their studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U280	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U281	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We have already talked about national security and, in particular, internal security in the context of this bill. The explanatory memorandum states very clearly that the changes here reduce the risks to national security. If the Reform Party and the Centre Party do not support this draft, it actually gives a very clear indication that they support the increase in security risks and are working to destabilise Estonian society, Estonian security and eventually destroy the Estonian nation state. Do you agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U282	It's hard for me not to accept that logic. I don't know if I'd use these adjectives, that's another thing now, but politics has to be embossed and it's hard for me not to accept that logic. However, I have so much idealism left in me that I hope that the coalition ambassadors will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U283	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U284	Good manager! Dear waitress, The law on foreigners has been amended constantly, so to speak, and it was adopted over ten years ago. Should it be rewritten as a complete text so that account is taken of today's situation, demographic situation and the moments set in the preamble to the Constitution, and if so, what should be done? How much should this law be amended and in what places?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U285	Thank you. When I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I also reminded the chairman of the committee that once, when we demanded freedom under the blue black and white flags during the singing revolution, freedom also meant that migration stops, that we can regulate it ourselves and that there is no mass immigration. In fact, in the nineties our immigration limit was set at such a level that there could not be mass immigration. There are now more and more exceptions that violate the idea of an immigration limit or its concept. There were 18 exceptions in the past, but two more exceptions were created by the law passed the day before yesterday, which, I hope, I would emphasise, I will continue to emphasise that the President is not announcing. What would I do? I would remove these exceptions and go on with the same idea of our nation state that we see out of our constitution as it was intended to restore our independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U286	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U287	Thank you. This last story is very, very remarkable. We live in a myth as if Estonia still had a strict immigration policy for many years. It's just not true. For many years we have had a very loose immigration policy, and now this last amendment of the Aliens Act has made Estonia one of the most open countries with immigration throughout Europe and the world. But I'm asking. The public is opposed, and many parties declare that they are opposed to mass immigration, have some euphemistic talk about specialists and students, but at least they say they are opposed. Then why do we have such a loose immigration policy? Old Rome said, "Cui bono?"Who's gonna win?'. Somebody's gotta be behind this when we've been systematically pushing it for years and years. Who wins because we have an open immigration policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U288	I'm trying to generalize the answer to winning two extremes. These are extremists on the left who hope that new immigrants will expand their Electra and, on the other hand, these political forces will win on the other side of the spectrum, who are not opposed to the fact that the Estonian economy is being built up to use cheap labour. They win. Unfortunately, they've had a lot of grub. I understand that some media have simply not understood this issue, have not understood what is happening, and have been persuaded by pseudo-arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U289	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U290	I take the privilege of answering for the author of the bill to whom it is useful. This will, of course, be of particular benefit to those forces in the East and the West who want to destroy nation states and national identities. Their henchmen are the coalition parties here, on one side and on the other. But the question that's slipped under the radar right now is this. We actually still have a health crisis under the variety. They're already talking about some new omicron strains, and they don't know what they're talking about yet. How will our health care, our social security, be affected by such massive immigration, and will it also result in the explosive introduction into the country of diseases that we have lost in the meantime or are not well known?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U291	Thank you. I will say briefly that it is disastrous and that we are just beginning to see these fruits.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U292	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U293	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Cheap labour does not promote the economy in any way. This has been studied sufficiently in Sweden, for example, that immigrants, if they even want to go to work, which is a rare occurrence, work as a taxi driver, a barber or a kebab cooker. They give nothing to the country's economy. As far as Estonia is concerned, we can see who these darker-skinned academics are working as they are: they deliver pizza at night. But my question is about people from Slavic countries. Does the Estonian state have any idea of what they will live on after receiving their residence permit, how much they will pay their taxes, whether they are staying in Estonia at all, or whether they have moved on from here? After all, this is also a very high security threat. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Does the Estonian Government have an overview of what people they are and where they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U294	As far as I know, in case there's such an overview, it's very superficial. We examined with the Minister of the Interior how much of the refugees are in Ukrainian language and how much is in Russian native language. The minister replied that he had the information, but he didn't have it in his head, and promised to send it later. When we asked him later, the answer was that these data were not collected. So I have a feeling that the Estonian state has a very superficial idea of who our late immigrants really are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U295	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U296	Good manager! Good Jack! Recently, President Kaljulaid wrote an interesting article in which he said that eight times more than in the time of Merkel in Germany, but we could think about building a new Sweden here in Estonia. What do you think of the new Sweden on this side of the Baltic Sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U297	Thank you. First of all, as far as integration is concerned, the experience of integration in Estonia is actually much longer than in Sweden. We shouldn't start learning about integration from somewhere else, somewhere in the forefront of the West. We know for ourselves, the others could learn from us. This experience is not encouraging, as you know very well. However, when it comes to Sweden, the Swedish model, as it is said, the fool is the one who learns from his own mistakes, the wise one learns from the mistakes of others, but the stupid one is the one who does not learn from the mistakes of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U298	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U299	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In preparing this draft, you have done a very grateful and strong job. There has already been a very important vector here for society, how our society has been deceived by it, as if we had a small quota and we had no fear. Indeed, when we look at the Aliens Act, apart from this classic thousand quota, we have 18 exceptions, now perhaps 20 exceptions, all depends, of course, on the President, [two] will come. In drafting this draft [in context], I would ask this question: if we were to do such a trick, how would you appreciate it if we could withdraw this operation from the Aliens Act, which is linked to these dozens of exceptions? Can we say, then, that the Aliens Act is acceptable and reasonable and that our society is better served by all exceptions than by taking out exceptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U300	I understand the point of the question, and it is absolutely appropriate. But if you try to essentially approach it, it's likely that other things in the law would also need to be changed. However, the withdrawal of these derogations is also a step towards regulating immigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U301	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U302	Thank you. We remember 2009 when Estonia was in crisis and the country was led by the Reform Party. Instead of supporting the economy, like other countries, it was not done, it was cut. As a result, 100,000 people left [Estonia]. Today we are in a crisis again, we are in a deep energy crisis, we are in a loss of competitiveness for businesses, we are in inflation and we have doors open to immigration. We already have over 20,000 migrant workers, now there are Ukrainian refugees. We have no idea how much illegal migrant labour we have inside, and now [doors] were opened to the whole world. Everyone can come here basically to make a cheap worker. How do you predict the consequences of this crisis in terms of emigration and the preservation of our nation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U303	Thank you. You don't have to be a social scientist for that. After all, it is a fine saying that someone who repeats the same action and hopes for a different outcome cannot be described as a very wise person.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U304	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U305	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Regarding the purpose of the draft, it has been described that the draft aims to avoid situations where closed communities or even parallel societies would be created in Estonia. Do you have any examples from Europe where such processes have already been? Why don't you describe these negative effects a little bit more? It's been mentioned, but I don't think it's gonna hurt too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U306	Yes, we have them both in the European countries and in Estonia. We know we're having enclave or closure. After all, the share of Estonians in Ida-Virumaa is not rising in any way. If, for example, we look at Tallinn's districts, they are also divided on a national basis, or we say, on the basis of whether or not it is a population of foreign origin. Obviously, integration is possible if we include, for example, the Russians of Peipsi or the descendants of the White Guard. But integration is a long, extremely long process. If we have more thousands and thousands of people every year as a result of mass immigration, then we can declare this integration money, well, empty. It's a sieve carrying water in that case. Clearly, integration of persons from another cultural space is much longer-term. To give examples from Sweden or Norway, in the Rinkeby district you have to speak Russian to feel safe, because local criminals fear the Russians. There are many such examples, where people from another cultural space are far from being integrated into this society. I recall one of our enquiries which, unfortunately, received relatively little attention. It was an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior where we asked about what had become of these quota refugees, there were 213 who came to us in the years 2016 to 2019. The answer was that, in fact, we no longer know the location of half of them, even though they were very carefully chosen for Estonia and they wanted to come to Estonia. However, half of them have left Estonia. This means that their potential for integration was very low. We also learned that only 11 of the 504 persons who received refugee status in Estonia in the years 2016 to 2021 should have studied Estonian according to the law, only 11 have passed the B-category Estonian language exam. This shows that integration processes are not rapid, they are arduous and the greater immigration, the more meaningless these integration events become.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U307	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I see I'm the last questioner here right now. So I'm going to ask you a summary of this, so to speak, amendment of the law. If we fail to adopt this amendment to the law, there will certainly be some changes to our population here on the territory of the Estonian state. My question is a little bit inclined to an impossible mission, but I'm still asking, hoping to get an answer from you. If we do not adopt this law now, this amendment, what will be the number of people arriving here in the context of labour and mobility in one year's time, in three years' time and in five years' time? If you can, you can answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U309	Thank you. This question is again entirely relevant. But I hope you understand that I can't answer that with an exact number. Once again, let us leave the refugees out of this, I would stress that the adoption of this draft will rather improve the situation of refugees in our labour market. If we leave the refugees out of the game and know that otherwise there have been 4 000 to 5 000 people per year on the migration side, and according to the preliminary data of Statistics Estonia, we can assume that in 2021 the migration balance was even higher, now that the law was adopted the day before yesterday entered into force, I would stress: I hope that the President will not announce it, but, hypothetically, in the event of its entry into force, you would think that this extra-refugees or ordinary immigration could increase maybe one and a half times, perhaps more. This bill would be a step towards preventing this from happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U310	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you! Now by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 April, the Constitutional Commission discussed the draft initiated by the Estonian Conservative People's Party. We had been invited by the representative of the initiator and by Ms Jana Laane, Deputy Secretary-General of Internal Security, Law Enforcement and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as advisor to the Border Guard and Migration Policy Department. Just as the initiator of the bill introduced the draft here before me, he also made a long and comprehensive review of it in the Commission. I will not dwell on this, but I will bring you some more important points from what the Members of the Commission had to say or think about this draft. There was a longer debate on precisely the amendment of the Law on Higher Education. There was a debate here on whether and how it is regulated for today. We actually know that Parliament has also taken a much more conservative stance on this issue, as part of a draft adopted in February. It must be borne in mind that this draft was introduced before Parliament took its decisions in February, so there has already been some development. The question then was about the impact on the economy of analysis and demography, regional policy, how the drafters have taken this into account. However, there is certainly a need to admit here, and this is what the debate in the Commission included, that in each draft this impact analysis has been carried out as much as the political group and the political party have capacity. Within the framework of this draft, we have come to quite such issues, let us say, as regards the work of Parliament, whether the opposition or the coalition, which have the capacity to make better-quality drafts. However, I think that this draft is good enough, as well as with the party to the substantive explanatory memorandum, to deal with it here. The final assessment can be made by everyone, but it was indeed one of the tents of the debate we have in the Commission. It was then about whether the initiator of the draft is aware that, as we remember, there was a draft 241 which was amended between the second and third readings, and there was some linguistic corrections made by Riigikogu members as an evaluation between the second and third readings. We noticed that the linguistic corrections we made at the time in this draft by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which were approved by the large hall, were the same errors that had entered the draft. Our question was whether it was an accident. Really, there was also talk of the fact that the same fingertips have come into this bill. However, just as with the previous draft, if Parliament wants and wishes, these finger errors will change in the future. We heard the position of a representative of the Government of the Republic. Mr Veiko Kommuskaar said that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft on 17 February and, as a result of the debate, reached the point of not supporting this draft. One reason certainly was that the Government of the Republic had at that time given the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications the task of coming up with their amendments, which were later tabled in draft 241. There was also a longer debate on security issues in the Estonian context, whether the ministry officials had assessed it sufficiently and what their competence to evaluate it was. Here the Members of the Commission had opinions that perhaps this competence is not sufficient. At the same time, ministerial officials stressed several times that they had discussed these issues with both the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police, which concerns the risks that migration policy may pose. Perhaps also because the consensus on mobility has come into this draft. It was also welcomed by the Commission that there are similarities between this draft and the 241 adopted today. This is what was recognised in the Commission as having found greater consensus and common ground among parliamentary parties. We also discussed how and how such drafts were prepared and should be included. It was pointed out by the Commission that, in the case of draft 241, which inevitably entered the debate on this draft very much, a very large number of business organisations were involved, then in the future it should be considered that, if there are such drafts concerning entrepreneurship, jobs, trade unions should always be at the table in order to ensure such a triangle principle. Then it was a question of whether the officials in the Commission represented their views on the world or the policy of the current government. After a long discussion, however, we came to the conclusion that, regardless of the government, officials have been professionals and are still dealing with all these issues not in the worldview, but precisely in the political positions of the government. After a long and thorough debate, we also reached procedural decisions. First of all, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 12 April. We know that the Bureau decided to move these things to one side, the big hall back to the other, today it is 13, but we also know why this happened: yesterday it was simply not possible to go through this whole process. Then there was another decision: to propose that the draft be rejected, 5 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. It was decided to appoint Mr Tõnis Mölder, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to represent the lead committee. We did not make any more decisions at this committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U312	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I hope you will support this understanding, which has been in Estonia for more than ten years, that higher education in Estonian could be free for our people, students. However, if universities wish to provide education in English for a fee, this should not be prohibited. Did you also discuss such a topic that certain specializations cannot be studied in Estonia, and it is also necessary to improve yourself and to go to a foreign university for that purpose? The Netherlands is a good example where students from all over the world are expected and very good education is provided. If there is no field education in Estonia, it is not possible to obtain it, should the state not support those students who go abroad to study and return to Estonia with a Master's degree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U314	In short, one could say that there was no debate in the Commission. But in replying at length, I think, first of all, that when it comes to education in Estonian and, more specifically, to free higher education in Estonian, my own home party, the Centre Party, together with your party, has stood up for this. I think these are the right principles that have been advocated. As regards, for example, higher education in foreign language, or English, I do not rule out the issue you raised. If someone wants to study abroad and obtain higher education in English, precisely in a field where education in Estonia is not offered, we know that there are specializations where opportunities are significantly better in the world and there are simply no opportunities in our small Estonia, we do not have such faculty members and we do not have such opportunities to deal with topics, it is certainly a point of thought. Why can't the state support the education of these people? But once again, in this case, I personally see that the condition could be that these people definitely return to Estonia and also contribute to the Estonian labour market and Estonian economy. If they do not do so, I can see that those people who have received free higher education could compensate the state for this part for a period of time if they have left Estonia and do not start working in Estonia. I don't want to hurt any sector or authority, but I think one example is doctors who really get a very good education at the expense of the Estonian state, but we know that some doctors never start working in Estonia, but they start working abroad. Once again: people must complement themselves abroad, it is reasonable, but perhaps in economic terms and in the state budget sense, this has not been the most appropriate course of action on the part of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U315	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please! I would point out that only the representatives of the political groups will be heard at first reading. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U316	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, It's very eloquent that the coalition lines are practically empty. I understand that sitting in offices, the ear is as long as a donkey, but to participate directly, the coalition ambassadors do not feel the need, internal coercion, or passion. This is extremely regrettable because it shows that they do not fully have a sense of the situation. They imagine that the world is still running on the proposed tracks, which have been laid down nicely and nicely in Estonia decades ago and which are being followed by political processes. It's not like that! The fact that we are discussing such a draft here is a confirmation that there is one party here and one group that understands that the world is not the same. Since the world is not the same, coalition ambassadors will understand this when they talk about the war in Ukraine and how we need to shed tears about the victims of this war. I totally agree with that, we all agree that it is depressing what is happening. But the effects of this war on us, our little country and our people have not come to their minds. The result of this is that we here a few days ago, with the majority of the votes, with the coalition's votes, passed a bill that opened all the doors and windows wide open to foreign workers, without asking, without analysing, without realising what its long-term consequences are. I listened to what the Director General of the Defence Police said in the First Studio, and I thought that when I was a minister, he spoke a slightly different story, a much more reasonable story, a much more realistic story reflecting threat assessments than he is now. We hear we don't have a fifth column, we have a right-wing extreme. Well, where are those right-wing extremists? A couple of teenage boys who have posted stupid posts are those right-wing extremists who threaten to destroy the Estonian state and the entire Western civilization or something? This isn't an adequate story. We have thousands and thousands of non-Estonian citizens, but also Estonian citizens, whose native language is not Estonian, who work hard at shooting exercises, hunting and the like, are gun owners, are owners of ammunition, are well organized. But this is not a problem in Estonia. I read in the paper that Mr Oudekki Loone is going to be expelled from the Riigikogu so that he cannot go to the bronze man on 9 May to deliver flowers. Then I hear the headmaster of the Defense Police say no-no-no, if anyone wants to take flowers to the Defence Forces cemetery on 9 May, they won't stop it. Well, if those florists are protected by the defense police, what crime can Oudekki Loone handle? That's the kind of dissonance that's filled with our national politics. Why am I talking about this? I am speaking for a very simple reason: because it is the result of our ethnic, linguistic and cultural heterogeneity. We have two societies. For 30 years now, the Republic of Estonia and we have two societies. It hasn't been possible to integrate, integrate, integrate whatever word we use in this other part of society. We're afraid of the other side of society. In front of MEM Cafe, Toompea can attack the dogs at the foot... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U317	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U318	...but at the Inner Town Cemetery, we'll talk to them, we'll tell them it's not nice to put Georgi's tape on. It's all very, very depressing. Now that we bring a bill that says that we look to the future and we realise that in a month alone, 30,000 new people have arrived in Estonia, with a very serious question mark, whether it is worth teaching them the Estonian language or not, whether we need to start creating our education system for them or not, because we do not know whether they will go to the West or whether they will go back to their country of origin or if we want to clean it up with a bill, then the coalition will say that pick it up, it won't be okay, it won't be necessary. Do the coalition ambassadors realize that we have already lost, Estonian people, Estonian voters have already lost the city of Tallinn? Do they realize that we have already lost the great cities of Ida-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa as a whole? We Estonians do not decide there. The decision is made by those who are often also Russian citizens. Now, let's open the doors and windows wide open, let's let tens of thousands of people in here, new people we don't know what their loyalty is. Don't tell me they're all Ukrainians. No, it's not. They are Russians with a Ukrainian passport, in good case with a Ukrainian passport. We already have a lot of mischief when they say Putin's right, he's right. Doors and windows wide open, without thinking about what is in a year's time, which is in ten years' time, which country we're going to live in! Without thinking about it. I have a son, a doctor. I'm in contact with the doctors. Doctors say the health picture is terrible. The HIV's coming back. From Ukraine, we are being carried in infectious diseases, which we have thought could never exist in Estonia again. No, they're coming back for us because tens of thousands of people are coming and bringing them here for us. But these [people] communicate with us. These women, young women, we don't know what they're gonna do here. Maybe hundreds, thousands of women of them will be involved in prostitution. Who's gonna take the poison and say it's not gonna work? I often have this feeling that there are two options. Whether our political elite, this political elite of the white parties, is a total kindergarten who does not understand and is not able to think about what happens when you put two pounds into the electric plug and put them in that electric plug because he is a child, or indeed we are dealing with pests, people who are manipulative and blackmailable, but who, perhaps because of their liberal views, simply hate the Estonian people, hate Estonian language, hate Estonian culture, want our education to be English, want our street language to be Russian... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U319	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U320	... and that the Estonians should have their pastel and zither.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U321	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U322	Time? It is time to realise that this kind of verminism must also be brought to an end by coalition politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U323	Tõnis Mölder on behalf of the central fraction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U324	I'll be honest with you, I didn't mean to come to this remote control at first, but if, for the starter's part, there are still very big false claims, then there are some things that need to be overturned here. I think the first and most important thing is that today, at 12 o'clock, the President of Ukraine appeared here before us. He gave a very heartfelt, thought - provoking, and very meaningful speech. In my opinion, the large hall in Parliament stood up and applauded. I think that we have shown a great deal of unity on this issue, and I think it is extremely important that we also do so tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and as long as it is necessary, perhaps, to the end. What has now been said on this board, as if we should not be helping the refugees in Ukraine, I do not agree. Yes, I can admit that I am somehow trying to understand what the previous speaker was trying to say, but that speech and those words were certainly not what I could agree with. We must help all the refugees who have come here who cannot be safe in their own country. We must help these women, these children, integrate them into Estonian society, provide them with as much support as possible, but also create opportunities to be full members of society, from education to employment. We must also certainly help those men who come here and who are not defending their home country. I think that understanding and helping these people is the smallest thing that the Estonian state can do here. Now another thing that's scared of here. It's been said that it's like... I don't know, two words have been used. It has been said that it is a migratory pump, this one bill that was adopted here on Monday, and then it is said that it is a sieve. Well, the sieve and the pump are two completely different things, I think. But I admit, there are parties that want to get to the pump. What am I saying? I don't think this bill is a sieve or a pump. These drafts are intended primarily for the fact that we are making the [future] migration policy significantly more conservative here from third countries, but we are also helping the Estonian economy, entrepreneurs, to create new jobs here, to create high-paid, full-value jobs. I think it's very, very important. When the Defence Police summarised the year in their annual report yesterday and [their representative] said in an interview that there are no migration problems in Estonia, we can handle all of this, it is not worth coming from this remote area to scare the big hall, as if we had dozens and tens of thousands of people hiding somewhere, whom we should be afraid of and who at some point come out of the corner and somehow wave our rule of law. No, that's not gonna happen. If the Estonian Defence Police says that it does not exist, then I trust them. Two more things I wanted to sort out about this bill. One thing is that this bill allows men and women who come here to work to take their family with them. As far as this family is concerned, they can take it with them. That's what this bill is about, it's a pump. The 241 bill, which was adopted on Monday, says very clearly: every adult person who wants to come to Estonia and work in Estonia must apply for a very clear basis for staying here. A man or a woman has a presence in Estonia with one foundation, a woman with other bases. If a woman is not given this basis, for example, she cannot be in Estonia. Maybe we don't create opportunities to come here by family. The natural thing is that mothers and fathers and their children move together. But that doesn't mean we're somehow encouraging the creation of families like this. Now the other side, which I think is very important. We resolved very clearly with Bill 241 the question that if we have come here to learn... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U325	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U326	...then they come here to learn, not to work. If those people who have come here to study are expelled from the university, they will have to leave Estonia in the coming months. We see a situation where these people do not leave Estonia. I think that is not the line that the Estonian state should keep. We want to see, once again, such a transparent migration policy that if a person wants to come here to work, he or she will apply for the basis of work, and if he or she wants to come here to study, there is a period of study and he or she will study. There's no mash and cabbages. So once again: I think that this bill has not been made out of this spirit in order to contribute to the Estonian economy, to the improvement of the Estonian business environment. However, I do see a lot of positive starting points in this bill that relate to certain conservative features. But once again, Bill 241 covered them. So my proposal to the middle group is certainly not to support the completion of the first reading of this draft. I understand that the Commission has proposed a rejection. Our group supports this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U327	Mart Helmel has developed a request for an answer. I understand you recognized yourself. A previous speaker was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U328	Thank you. Firstly, I would, of course, like to say that I am never and never, nor have the other members of our group questioned, as far as I know, the need to assist war refugees. It is a question of mass immigration in general. But this mass immigration must also be controlled, controlled and mitigated by the state in the case of war refugees. That's what I drew attention to. As far as access to the pump is concerned, there must also be an operator at the pump who can handle the pump. The current coalition can't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U329	Indrek Saar wishes to speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U330	Ladies and gentlemen, I made the mistake of leaving my voice when Mart Helme came to the remote. And I did not get any other way when I had to come to this remote control to ask my colleagues from the EKRE Group: please draw attention to the use of my colleague's words. I understand that emotions are overwhelming. By taking advantage of this crisis too, the coalition sometimes passes over rules that are basic in Parliament. But please think about the debate we had here yesterday, and then put on the words that Mart Helme ended his speech with. Think of Vladimir Putin trying to label the Ukrainian people, calling them drug addicts and so on. Then wonder if it is still appropriate to come to the Riigikogu's remote control and scare the entire Estonian people with Ukrainian prostitution, in that wording, as it sounded. Please don't put pressure on me! Time is nervous anyway. Society doesn't have the best emotions, people clearly have fear, feelings of powerlessness to some extent. We actually need maximum peace of mind in society. Please, let's not stress ourselves in this way, and let's not insult those who are the hardest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U331	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 516 at first reading. We need to vote this through. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that we are discussing the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Higher Education Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 516 and the proposal of the commission to reject the draft proposal at first reading 516. I therefore put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 516 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U332	The result, by 58 and against 19, was endorsed by the commission's proposal. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U333	We will proceed with the second item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group. Call chair, Aivar Koka, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U334	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing today the draft law initiated by the Fatherland, which, if adopted, will lower the rate of excise duty on unleaded petrol to the minimum level in the European Union. The Committee on Finance has proposed that the first reading of the draft be closed. Inflation has grown exponentially and in these circumstances steps must be taken to support Estonian people and businesses. Inflation in recent months has exceeded 10%. Consumer prices in Estonia increased by 12% in February this year compared to February last year. A temporary reduction in the excise duty rate to the minimum permitted in the European Union would provide an opportunity to reduce fuel prices, which would reduce the pressure on people's and businesses' wallets. If the draft is adopted, the excise duty on unleaded petrol will be reduced from EUR 563 to EUR 359 per 1000 litres of unleaded petrol until 1 May next year. In the winter of 2023, the situation can be re-examined and it can be decided whether or not this excise duty reduction needs to be extended. I hope that other parties will also understand the importance of excise duty cuts. Russia's war against Ukraine has brought great instability. In these difficult times, it is important that the Estonian state takes various measures to support our own people and businesses. We know that in March, the average price for motor gasoline was EUR 1.84 per litre and sales fell, I stress, by 12.5% compared to last year. Thus, although the Ministry of Finance had the opinion that 4.2% was a fall in sales, this decrease is in practice much higher and this figure is very likely to be at least 10%. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Everyone in the Commission, apart from the members of the Reform Party, supported this draft. When we asked ministry officials for specific numbers, their analysis and opinions, the answers were such that they did not think that residents on the Latvian border could come to Estonia to buy petrol because of a better price, even though some years ago border trade went the other way. It was thought that winning more than 10 euros from the tank was not the money that would bring Valka's people to Valga County to buy gas. I believe ten euros from the tank is quite a lot of money. When we asked that in Poland the rate of excise duty has been reduced to the lowest [level] in the European Union, whether Poland's [example] was also analysed, it was said that no. After all, it is clear that if the excise duty is reduced and the price is reduced, consumption will certainly increase by that amount. On the one hand, we may think that the consumption of fossil fuels should be reduced, but on the other hand, we know that it is important in rural areas that you can take a passenger car to work, to school, to the store and so on. We have to keep our people safe. I think that this bill is exactly the same as it was when we argued here two years ago whether lowering the waterway charges would be detrimental or beneficial to the state budget. Finally, the result was that when the officials calculated that it would bring 17 million minuses, and we suggested that it could be 30 million pluses, the final result was 30 million pluses. The same is true of this bill. As prices decrease, sales volumes increase. Ultimately, we have 30 million minuses in the bill, but I believe that at that point we did not predict that sales volumes would fall so drastically as a result of price increases. This draft is likely to have no impact on the state budget if it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U335	Thank you. I don't see any questions. So let's move on to the Commission's report right now. I invite a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Tõnis... Sorry, it was the wrong line. Andrei Korobeinik, Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U336	Good chairman of the sitting! I hope Tõnis isn't too scared. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance dealt with this draft at its meeting on Monday, 4 April. The main debate was on what the budgetary impact is. The Ministry's analysis showed that this effect is negative. Some questions had not been answered, but these answers, along with the numbers, arrived later. The Commission's debate was very thorough. Opinions were expressed as to what Estonian tax decisions could be in today's situation. The opinions were different. At the end of the consultation, the Commission took the following decisions: It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 12 April, and today it is 13 April. It was a consensual decision. It was decided to propose the completion of the first reading. As the initiator mentioned, this decision was not consensual, in favour of 5, against 2. The consensus decision was that I was the waitress. The deadline for amendments is 10 days; I understand that [the deadline] will be on 28 April at 5.15 p.m. That's all for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U337	Thank you. There are no questions for the co-rapporteur either, negotiations can be opened. There is no wish for negotiations either, I will close the negotiations. It is now the case that, as we have just heard, the lead committee proposed that the draft 548 should stop reading first. No proposal to the contrary has been received by me, so the first reading has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U338	We will proceed with today's third item on the agenda. Now we get to what our Monday plan was to be the beginning of the Wednesday sitting, the points that were passed from yesterday, now we are going to get to third readings. Draft 493 third reading of the Commercial Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, which requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. First, we're gonna do a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I got you in this hall with a clever trick, shot a call sign, but I haven't voted yet, because we're processing the third reading of the draft Commercial Register Act 493 and it's possible to negotiate first. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. We are going to the final vote, because there was a séance. The commission has proposed a final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U339	There are 83 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no one is opposed, no one is impartial. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U340	Today's fourth item is the third reading of the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers initiated by the Government of the Republic. The adoption of this draft also requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. The lead committee has proposed a final vote, but first we will open negotiations. Please, Light Everaus!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U341	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Shouldn't be wasting time, but I think it's actually worth the bill. Above all, to make us all feel safer in the future. I'll start with one case. It was a little over 30 years old, a young man who had an inborn clotting disorder, i.e. he did not have a protein in the clotting chain. This means that any injury can result in bleeding and death. He knew it, he had had to go that way for a long time in his life. He had a family and a little kid. He had everything he needed in the fridge so that if there was a problem, he could solve it quickly. For decades, teachings had been repeated, and he knew what to do. He felt bad in his head. It is known that one possibility is that the brain may develop bleeding due to its disease. The right hand became powerless. He called an ambulance. They had all the instructions, showed how the ambulance should behave, so that the protein that was missing should have been administered as soon as possible. Unfortunately, no advice was given, the man was taken to an ER in a hospital where the same instructions were repeated. And no, nothing. The condition deteriorated because the bleeding in the head got worse. They didn't listen to what they should have done. The person was taken to the computer, where he passed out and died within a 24-hour period. I'm saying this because we're not talking about these things and we think we don't have these problems. Unfortunately, we do not really know this, because we have not had anyone specifically researched it at all, but the world's data are where it is studied and controlled, that one in ten sick can get a undesirable result, that is, what could be avoided, and 12% of avoidable errors cause long-term disability or death. Recent studies show that the annual side effects are not those that could not be avoided by 43 million worldwide. Death results in 4.4% of these adverse reactions in Spain, 6.1% in Denmark, 8% in England, 3% in Sweden, 7.8% in the Netherlands. We don't know that[how many we have]. In other words, on a global scale, the number of people dying from these avoidable side effects, or medical errors, is over 3 million each year. This is a serious [problem] and for no reason has the World Health Organisation paid very serious attention to it. Until now, there have been different systems of handling medical errors in different countries. We have a 'criminal' system under criminal law and civil law, which has not really provided any solutions. It is not about punishment, it is about having as little of these mistakes as possible, so that doctors are not afraid to talk about what is happening and try not to hide them in the future. Sweden was the first to introduce a non-formal system in 1975. This means that the sufferer will receive his or her compensation, but it does not have to be guaranteed to find a specific culprit, but it will be dealt with separately. This system has been in Finland since 1987, Norway since 1988, Denmark since 1992, Finland already has a new law. I'll have more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U342	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U343	Canada, Australia, New Zealand have the same system. Our neighbours are also ahead of us: Latvia has a so-called medical risk fund from 2015 and Lithuania from 2020. What we want is essentially a cultural change. What we want is for us to be satisfied with our heart and to know that it is safe to be sick and that we cannot get anything more than our illness. That is why this law is extremely important, the law that I hope we all support. But it's just the beginning, it's only two years from now, and there's a lot of work to be done. Changing the entire internal culture of medicine is a long process and will never end. So it's an important bill. For ten years we have been waiting for this and not just waiting, but actually working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U344	Thank you. Riigikogu discussions are never a waste of time. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U345	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Everaus, who also spoke on several occasions in the Commission about how this draft has been awaited and prepared by medical staff for ten years and how important it is. It is quite clear that smart people and systems learn from mistakes. Our system has so far been structured as if our medicine were without faults or with the smallest amount of errors in the world. We all understand that this does not correspond to reality. Our system so far has favoured the fact that medical errors are not simply registered in Estonia is not taken into account. As the previous speaker said, it is therefore not possible to take them into account. This [amendment] is a positive side and a good part of this draft. As usual, they love to graft on all sorts of different nuances and things. In November, the Isamaa Group submitted a draft, quite a lot was said about the urgent need to implement the COVID Vaccine Damage Fund. Then the Prime Minister announced that it certainly makes no sense to do this in any form, because it gives an awfully wrong signal to society. We all know how we did with the vaccination. Now, once again, the situation has improved, terrible news from Ukraine has stifled the issue of COVID, and we have forgotten about it. I think it is the worst part of this bill that the coalition decided to quickly add what had been prepared for ten years. In the context of the medical system and insurance, it was decided to quickly merge the vaccine damage fund, firstly, with regard to all vaccines and then with regard to COVID. These vaccines are still unexplored, there are very many exceptions, and we know that doctors cannot detect very quickly and easily that they are the cause of health damage. I think it's really bad that they're in this bill together. That is why we cannot support this draft in this form. It would have been quite logical and reasonable if, as a matter of urgency in this Parliament, the COVID Vaccine Damage Fund had been resolved separately, because there are very many questionable issues. We are constantly following events in this area, and now these [things] are put together here. It is certainly unwise to do so together because wise people are not able to learn in this way. So, unfortunately, we must not vote on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U346	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U347	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I ask you to support the draft law on mandatory liability insurance for health care providers. This law has long been awaited by the Association of Patients, the Association of Hospitals, the Association of Doctors and the Association of Nurses. The need for compensation for vaccine damage came on the agenda acutely after some people suffered health damage following the administration of the COVID-19 vaccine. The purpose of this bill is to create a state fund for the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, from which people can apply for compensation up to 100000 euros. The benefit can be claimed both in case of damage to the COVID vaccine and in case of any medical defects resulting from the use of other vaccines. For the purpose of knowing that there are cases to be reimbursed where there is at least a likelihood of a link between the damage to health and the vaccination. This means that the people of Estonia do not have to prove in any way that one hundred percent of the damage to health is related to vaccination, but is a question of probability. Such a system of vaccination damages already exists in 27 countries, such as Finland, Sweden, Denmark and elsewhere. I am very pleased that we now also have the opportunity to join the ranks of countries that defend their people with dignity. This draft also defines patients' liability insurance, which will help patients to apply for compensation more easily in a situation where a health care professional has found a medical error. In this case, the patient can apply for benefits from the insurance and does not have to go to court. This is certainly very necessary from the perspective of our patients. I would like to warmly and sincerely thank Minister for Health and Labour, Tanel Kiike, who has really worked out a draft law on the Vaccine Damage Fund in a few months, and this is before us today. Please support this bill. This will help our people and give them the opportunity to receive compensation due to medication errors or the adverse side effects of vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U348	Kalle Grünthal, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U349	Ladies and gentlemen, Good people who are watching! This law is undoubtedly extremely necessary and I am very pleased that it has reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu, although there are still very important shortcomings in the draft. But if Tanel Kiike, who has been able to process this law very quickly, was previously approved here, then I say that the vital facts regarding vaccination have brought this draft into this hall. Of course, also pressure from abroad, where there have been a great deal of vaccine damage. Let me read some examples. Tatjana Fitania's son from Tallinn practically came into a coma and needed resuscitation after vaccination. Olga Ivanova from Narva developed left-hand paralysis as a consequence of vaccination. The father of the plant from Rakvere: after the first injection, mild memory disorder, hyperactivity, pointless chatter, after the second injection, aggressiveness intensified, lack of orientation, speech confused, after five days the ambulance was taken to Rakvere EMO, and from there in the evening was transported to Tallinn Psychoneurology Hospital. Viktor, 69-year-old male from Tabasalu: on Wednesday the vaccine was injected, on Thursday the accident occurred. According to the police, it may have been a situation where his heart stopped. The accident was written down because of an unexpected health problem that we've been reading about lately in the newspapers all along. Elmar went to Järvamaa for vaccination, 15 minutes later he collapsed next to the car and died. Anneli's mother from Tallinn: 12 days later the family members were found on the floor, the resuscitation tests were not helpful, the doctors asked if she had been vaccinated, when they heard a yes answer, only looked at each other, and it could be said from their body language that she was not the first to have seen this happen. Kristi from Pärnu: Two weeks after the injection collapsed, with a blood clot or a stroke estimated by ambulances. I could continue this list, but I don't think it needs to be done. And all of this, their damage to health and their deaths, the bill only provides for a maximum compensation of EUR 100000 in the event of extreme damage to or death. Is our life in the Republic of Estonia worth only 100,000 euros? The Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed an amendment that in the event of extremely serious damage to health or death, the compensation would amount to a maximum of EUR 300000. We took as a basis not some case law that we absolutely do not have in this plan, but one case when, in the event of the death of a rescue worker, the employer paid EUR 300000 in compensation to his loved ones. It was not an accident at work, just as it is being served. It had nothing to do with the job. We are faced with the question of why it is necessary for the state to take responsibility. We remember these campaigns, how they put everything in line to the vaccination tent, and they took the shot. These people are also suffering now. Another important change that the Estonian Conservative Party wanted to make was that the causal relationship between vaccination and the patient's health damage or death is considered to have been established on the basis of the patient's epic crisis, which shows the date of vaccination and the subsequent deterioration or death of the condition. Unfortunately, this proposal was again rejected, because it has to be done by experts. I think that the person who has suffered health damage, and in his epic crisis, is absolutely clear as to whether there could have been a causal relationship to the vaccine, or whether there are some underlying diseases that the vaccine has contributed to [worsening]. Unfortunately, this amendment, which was made by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, was not taken into account again. What is to be done is the current government of the Reform Party and the Centre Party that does not care about their people who have suffered from the use of incomplete and uncontrolled vaccines. Yes, I am against this bill in this form, myself personally, but I am voting for it and I am also calling on others to vote, because the suffering of these people, their pains, their broken lives deserve financial compensation, even to some extent. I promise from this remote unit right now that if ever the EKRE is back in power, we will definitely make these sums one that is dignified. But what has been done by the present rulers is a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U350	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. We can go to [vote]. The commission of directors has proposed a final vote, but before that, we will do a hall call. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote draft law 522 on compulsory liability insurance for health care providers initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U351	There are 76 ambassadors in favour of the draft, with 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U352	Today's fifth item is the third reading of Draft 491 of the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. This bill, too, requires a majority of the membership. We will negotiate before the final vote. George Jaanson, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U353	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this hall once more at the third reading of the draft amendment to the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement Act was adopted in the full text of 2017 and some of these issues emerged as a result of its further operation, which is why changes were currently being prepared. This draft amends [the law] a little better. I would also like to emphasise that the draft was preceded by an in-depth discussion between all the parties involved and with the Ministry of Finance. All the parties were finally satisfied, and this is how he got here. We did not have any problems in the Commission's work; this law went through the Commission relatively without problems. The Commission's work produced some further amendments, which were adopted in a consensual manner and made the draft even better. But at second reading in this Chamber it turned out that the hall wasn't quite satisfied yet, there were some questions that arose. I therefore take this opportunity, with the permission of my group, to raise these issues a little bit and to clarify once again what was here as a problem. One thing that was raised here as a problem was the binding question for a preliminary ruling that the Council of Rectors wanted. Supposedly, Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, had promised that it would become a law. As a matter of fact, Jake Aab has not promised it. Indeed, the Council of Rectors submitted a binding draft preliminary ruling, but just before that Act of 2017. The idea was that a preliminary ruling could be used in an analogous way, as can be done in the tax administration's case under the Tax Administration Act, whereas the Public Procurement Act does not allow such a binding preliminary ruling to be made. This is the conclusion of the analysis by the Ministry of Finance. In this regard, we did not have this topic in this debate, could not have been, but since it was introduced in the Chamber, I have further examined how this should be. Alternatively, the Public Procurement Act provides for the possibility of coordinating procurement procedures at the request of the contracting authority by the Ministry of Finance so that, if the procurement is agreed in advance, there will be no change. After all, the Ministry of Finance has been reviewing these procurement procedures a great deal over the years and can give its coordination on this basis. The second point was the issue of the procurement of the COVID tests. Indeed, as I said at second reading, it is not possible to complete the details due to ongoing monitoring, but it is possible to use the negotiated procedure without prior publication. Now, let's get on with the fast-track change of contracts. It was pointed out that we have difficult times and that the procurements we have already concluded are very problematic. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance already published on 22 March a guide on the possibility of changing contracts based on the price index or, for example, on the consumer price index, and also recommended that the value indexing of the contract be linked in new public procurements. In a difficult situation, in fact, the contracting authority itself is also able to come to the other party, tenderers or contracting partner, to accept that it makes payments on the basis of its contract earlier, helping to deal with such crisis situations. The very big issue that was raised here was the entry into force of the law. Yes, it can be discussed whether it should be June 1st or may be later, three months later. But I would say that, first, amendments to the draft were started early. The Ministry of Finance started introducing them in February last year. The changes have been regularly introduced in training and seminars, most recently at a public procurement seminar organised by the training market.ee on 24 March, where these changes were resolved all day. There will also be another training on 21 April in the Teams environment, where the number of participants will certainly be quite high. So basically, the preparation has been very long-term and thorough. I would like to remind you once again that, among the current amendments, there is also a point which determines that public procurement concluded until 1 June or the adoption of the draft will be completed according to the old rules. So it's like there shouldn't be a problem here. The problem was, of course, the internal audit of the Ministry of the Interior. There, too, was the subject of the wording in the area of security. It was simply their internal auditor who dealt with the situation much more strictly than the law required. So, to sum up the subject, I would simply say that this amendment is aimed precisely at solving the practical problems with which contracting authorities and tenderers have run into public procurement, and this problem has been resolved with great consensus. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] So I hope it's...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U354	Time, George!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U355	... the Public Procurement Act became considerably better. Thank you. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U356	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. Now it's been about ten minutes, and I have to do the hall call again. We're gonna have two more third readings, so don't leave in the meantime. Can we go to the vote? Here's what we're gonna do. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the amendment of the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with this draft 491. It requires a majority of its component members. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U357	There are 68 ambassadors in favour of the draft, 15 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U358	Today's sixth item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the building code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 430. The commission has proposed a final vote. First, however, I will open negotiations. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U359	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The wind is becoming Estonia's most important natural resource, but the introduction of wind energy has unfortunately been entangled in Estonia for ten years. In order to become the law of this draft, we have unraveled legislative obstacles to about three fifths. The fourth fifth will be resolved when the government establishes the maritime planning and implementing acts of this draft, and when the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority processes applications for building permits which have been in the mailbox for several years. The final fifth is once again our solution. The draft which provides for the compensation of local communities for environmental disturbances caused by wind farms must arrive here. Hopefully, the government will hand it over to the Riigikogu in the next month and we will get it processed before the summer vacation. We are taking a long step forward, but there is much more to go before the construction of the wind farms can begin. The European Commission has assessed Estonia's marine wind potential as 8 gigawatts. Around this much of the procedures for building permits for developers have already been initiated. In offshore parks with an eight-gauge capacity, 32 terawatt-hours of electricity per year could be produced, which would be almost four times the consumption in Estonia in recent years. Both households, companies and exports will continue to benefit from favourable energy at the Estonian sea. Energy is also available for hydrogen production, which can be turned back into electricity in poor wind and solar times. True, 60% will be lost, so the price of such electricity may be five times higher. But Nord Pool's stock market price can already fluctuate more than five times in one day. It's the future. If the market price for electricity is EUR 50 per megawatt, which is very favourable today, the net annual turnover of 8-gigawatt sea wind parks would be EUR 16 billion per year. These amounts are higher than the annual budget of Estonia. Now, if you add a time dimension that building permits are issued for 50 years with the possibility to extend for another 50 years, it is clear why the tensions around this bill are so great and why the importance of this draft cannot be underestimated. One aspect of the draft is still very important. In particular, we changed the methodology for calculating the building charge between the two readings. In determining taxes and national charges, simplicity, clarity and market-relatedness are values in themselves. When the law enters into force, the building charge is calculated at 1,5% of the net turnover of sea wind parks, which means that if the wind energy potential is developed and the energy price is EUR 50 per megawatt-hour, then the state budget will receive a building charge of 240 million per year for the use of the sea area alone. It's almost 1% of GDP, and it's a state budget expenditure cover for R &amp; D all year long. I have just brought here an example of R &amp; D to illustrate the magnitude, because in renewable energy R &amp; D we are far behind Asia. In organising the Tokyo Olympic Games, hydrogen was used as an energy carrier from transport, heating, cooling and light to torch fire. Japan demonstrated that the technology was ready. I don't know what the greens sound like in Japanese or Mandarin, but they've already started it a long time ago, and they've achieved an impressive technological head start. Estonia's peak consumption is 1.7 gigawatts, actually slightly below this, and the Estonian electricity network has been developed to serve 2-gigawatt consumption. I'm asking for extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U360	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U361	Thank you very much. The lower fruits of wind energy hang in Ida-Virumaa, because for historical reasons the electricity grid has been developed in such a way that electricity moves from Ida-Virumaa to other areas of Estonia. There will probably be wind farms there too. Realising the potential of wind energy requires investment in tens of billions of transmission networks for both wind farms themselves and exports. Estonia does not have the largest companies capable of borrowing in billions of euros. It is therefore important that Estonia is attractive to foreign investors. The interest of foreign investors is already very high. This week a business forum and contact fair of Dutch and Estonian marine wind energy developers took place. Let's just say the hall was full of wood. I have been told about the investment interest of the great German producer RWE. In the near future, I will have a meeting with the investors in Singapore who want to obtain an enormous amount of hydrogen in our sense. Apparently, the first hydrogen tankers are coming up in Asia. The introduction of wind energy helps to decouple our region from the dependence of Russian gas and oil. Marine wind energy is one of the main sources of energy if we are to make our economy greener. Just today, after the speech by the President of Ukraine, Mr Zelenskiy, I deeply regretted not standing on this bill here ten years ago. We've lost precious time, we've fed the monster and we're paying a terrible price. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for handling this draft seriously and I would ask for your support in the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U362	Raimond Kaljulaid, please! Will you give up the speech? Okay, it's possible. In that case, we have no more wishes for words and I will close the negotiations. Now we go to the hall call to make a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, We are conducting a final vote on 430 of the draft law amending the building code initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection amending other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U363	There are 67 ambassadors in favour of this law, 6 against and 1 abstention. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U364	Today's seventh item is the third reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. Here too, the Commission has a proposal for a final vote. We can open negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U365	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We've been talking about designing a long-term care system for a long time. At the same time, with this draft, we are only entering the so-called modest first stage with these thoroughly planned amendments. Indeed, there is no major and fundamental progress to be made in the care of the elderly. We are talking about about 70 changes here, but they create basically legal clarity, contribute to cutting red tape, speed up access to aid and so on. One of the biggest things that is being changed is that grandchildren are no longer obliged to contribute to the care of grandparents and pay for the care home. At the same time, the municipality is relieved of the obligation to chase and recover these grandchildren around the world. At the same time, this financial obligation now extends to municipalities. Neither does the Cities and Municipalities Association know exactly how many of these cases are and what the impact of this amendment will be, in general, of this draft. Children, however, retain this responsibility. At the same time, the Centre Party has always said that the care of the needy [obligation] cannot be placed on the family and children. Of course, children care, care, and help parents and grandparents in every way. What if they're in trouble too? The question is, though, that an old man wants to be materially independent. We must once resolve this issue in a European way, so that no one has the fear of aging, it must be resolved in the way that has been done in most countries. Firstly, the pension should be of a dignified size to cover the care home [of the cost]. Secondly, we must take care of ourselves more jointly and severally on the shoulders of society, because in an ageing country it is inevitable. Care insurance should be considered by the Centre Party to be the key, and we should all contribute to this in the name of a dignified old age. Of course, in the near future, we need to move forward very quickly with the next stages of long-term care, providing that the cost of care must be shared between the state, the municipality and the person, at least three. The central role of the country has so far been seen as a key element. Minister Riisalo, still a member of the Commission, raised the issue of long-term care a great deal. You could say it was his favorite subject. Unfortunately, tangible changes have stopped now, although I understand that he would very much like to make them. But let's get on with it. By the way, let me give you another example. In Estonia, public funds contribute only 0.4% of GDP to the care of the elderly, i.e. four times less than in the countries of the European Union [average], and even countries with the same level of development contribute almost twice as much as we do, have brought out Development Monitoring [Central]. I would like to remind you once again that in the case of long-term care, we are not only talking about institutions, but also about home-residence services, support services. Of course, the elderly want to live the most at home. We're talking nursing care, support services, carer support. In any case, in today's situation where customers pay 80% of the general care service, this is a completely disproportionate burden. So long-term care is a matter for all of us, and actually for all of us. So I propose: we move on to this issue, we support this draft, which will bring clarity to progress on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U366	Thank you. Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U367	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Long-term care is life-long and does not ask for age. We care for our loved ones every day, but there are families where a loved one needs more and more permanent care, help, and support. This affects the family wallet and, too often, the opportunities of family members in work and social life. Regrettably, the care of a loved one is often trapped at home. It would be easy if only by compensating for the welfare home payment, for example, by the state, all the problems could be solved, because then all we need to do is find the money that is missing. I don't want to minimize this [money] concern because the nursing home fee is high. This is a problem that needs to be addressed, but it is only part of the burden of long-term care. People want to be in their homes as they age, and they need help there. Their needs vary greatly, as well as their opportunities. How do we help those who are trapped at home because of the care of a loved one, or do we solve the chronic underfunding for long-term care that does not leave the people who work in care unscathed? Work is hard, pay is small. As we know, in order to get there, we need to move. And that's what we do. The amendments to the Social Welfare Act that await our approval today are the first important steps towards improving the long-term care system. With these amendments, the concept of long-term care for the first time can be formulated, we will reduce the burden of care across generations, we will specify the principle that assistance must be provided to enable people to live as long as possible in their homes, we will speed up access to assistance and we will move closer to zero bureaucracy. While children and grandchildren have been obliged to support their parents so far, grandchildren will not be obliged to pay for their grandparents and, on the other hand, municipalities will be able to use the time and money that previously took to find their grandchildren to solve more pressing issues. Although helping those in need is already the responsibility of the local government, the draft also clarifies the task of the municipality to identify the need for support for persons with a care load. So we help the caretaker not to be trapped home with his duties, but to be able to return to work. This is very important in order to prevent a close caregiver from developing mental health problems and falling in need of help, as it is not uncommon for a carer to become in need. In order to help people with special needs more quickly and comprehensively, local authorities will have a comprehensive overview of the children in their administration who have been asked for disability and adults who have been identified as disabled. The aim of creating an exchange of information between the state and local government is to identify the needs of each child and family and adult as early as possible and to create solutions that allow timely assistance and prevent problems from getting worse. In order to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, people are exempted from providing data already available in national databases when applying for income support. We will also make it easier to identify the degree of disability in old-age and old-age people who are in an unchangeable or progressive state, enabling the degree of disability to be identified for a longer period than five years. So far, this option has only been available for children, and now it has also been available for old age. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is estimated that there are 180000 people in Estonia who care for their loved ones. Often they have to leave their main job and lose their income. In addition to the financial setback, the stress and concern of maintenance... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U368	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U369	...they also need help. The cost of long - term care was too much for many families even before the rise in energy prices, and the current situation is painful to show us how vulnerable this area is. We need to invest more in long-term care. The amendments to the Social Welfare Act will soon be voted on today as a first step in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U370	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the more social services of good quality we can provide people, the better. There's no doubt about that. From this point of view, you could say that this bill is a step forward. But the biggest problem with this bill is that we forget how these services can be funded. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the Union of Cities and Municipalities, through which, in principle, through whose members, through our cities and municipalities, these services should reach the people, did not coordinate this draft. They disagreed with these solutions because there was no money involved in these activities. I've heard from this hall that, oh, these sums are so small, they'll make it, it's nothing, we've set off this and the second sum and take it from there. It's extremely hypocritical. This is an extremely hypocritical approach! This is the case for all [obligations] to be fulfilled by municipalities. We can't let that happen. We must not, in principle, allow this to happen! All these things, these services, this cross-life social work is, of course, an essential part of a successful society and we want to be successful. But if we forget one of the important components of this, it's going to be zero. How should local governments cope if the money does not come with them? First of all, there is, of course, a certain defiance: there was again a task and we have to do it, we have to do it at the expense of teachers' salaries, we have to do it at the expense of the roads and so on and so forth. Secondly, there is really a practical question. Optimization will be started, people will be looking for how not to do it, because there is no money. And we here keep deepening this problem. We're looking at the public sector too country-centred, I mean central government-centred. We need to look at the public sector as a whole, where the central government is on one side, the state with its own apparatus, and the municipalities on the other side. It has to be balanced. In this sense, this bill certainly creates illusions. What else don't you want to be satisfied with? They say it's the first step that, well, maybe in the second and third steps, money comes after. But I say, why don't we give money in the first step, why hasn't it occurred to you where the government's eyes have been? The government totally and consistently ignores the municipalities and can't agree with this at all. In this sense, this law has completely failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U372	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U373	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The Social Democrats support this bill becoming a law. The moment may come when we may become either a carer or a person in need of care. The issues of long-term care have indeed been on the agenda for a long time. I would like to thank here the support group for the caretakers and carers, both in the previous and in its composition, where these issues have been discussed. It has been made very clear that when municipalities are supported and municipalities create all the services that are needed before the most expensive and most urgent [service] during a certain period of life or because of health status, i.e. institutional care or institutional care, people can cope at home. However, this draft would have been even better if the Socialist amendments had been taken into account. One of these amendments would certainly have helped the Minister for Social Protection. Once again, I would like to thank the opposition that voted in favour of these amendments and voted not because they are in opposition. I think it was not so world-viewed as a social protection and social policy issue. It would certainly have been helpful for the Minister to enter into the long-term care component so that this [amendment] will enter into force in 2023. We remember that when the Minister for Social Protection gave an overview of the sector and spoke about a long-term strategy, the thought paper said that the principles of long-term care would apply in 2024. There will be a new government, there will be new members of the Riigikogu, I do not know how many of us will be in the hall or who will be running. But if it had entered the year 2023, the Minister would have had a completely different level in the negotiations on the state budget in order to obtain and implement this next step, i.e. component-based care, where the person's own pension, the part of the state and the part of the municipality are. I can say that municipalities are doing their best, but these principles are very different across Estonia, and often the financial shortage is a brake factor. The second amendment, which, unfortunately, was not supported in the Committee on Social Affairs or actually received four votes, was to exclude child support when calculating income support. The proposal was made that even three months if the person becomes unemployed, the family becomes unemployed, child benefit is not calculated in the income support. We made this proposal after how many times our proposal to increase the level of subsistence had been rejected. At least now you can hear that the limit of living is rising. The government has also reached the understanding that the opposition parties once again proposed in the state budget procedure and talked about the need. This would have helped to pay for high energy prices as from 1 January. But it's a good thing it's coming now, we're positive in the sense that it's better late than never. Despite this, we are still supporting this bill, simply because it will certainly help people, help families, also formulate long-term care as a problem and a subject to be solved. But it really remains to be hoped that this will not happen in 2024 but earlier. Because believe me, people deserve their lifespan or lifespans of social scientists now say that it is not arc-shaped, we have a lot of examples when "the life cycle of a person" is a more accurate expression of dignified aging, dignified living and independent decision-making, but they also need it in the earlier period. There must be no fear of aging and getting sick, but there must be the knowledge that my children, my grandchildren and I, can do it because it has been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U374	Thank you. There's no more words. I will close the negotiations and start preparing the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote a draft law on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 510. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U375	There are 71 ambassadors in favour of the draft, there is no one against it, there are no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U376	Today's eighth item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to prevent anti-Estonian propaganda." The number of the bill is 529 OE, this is the first reading and the rapporteur is Üllar Saaremäe, a member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U377	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I am before you with the decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic to prevent anti-Estonian propaganda. The draft itself is extremely short and reads: "On the basis of § 154 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu decides: to propose to the Government of the Republic adequate and effective measures to prevent anti-Estonian propaganda. " The Group of the Fatherland has presented it on February 14, or two months ago. A brief excerpt from the explanatory statement. The psychological protection of the population plays an important role in the wide range of defence. The Estonian state is protected if our defence sector also takes into account the impact of the information environment and the influence of hostile information. The Defence Police have pointed out that Russia treats television channels controlled by the Kremlin as a state information weapon. As I said, it's been two months since the bill was handed over. It makes no sense to dwell on the times that have passed in the meantime, which have happened in the meantime. You might think that this is an open door break-in right now, because we all agree that these channels need to be shut down. At this point, we are no longer thinking merely of television channels, as is the case in our February 14 explanatory memorandum, but of all the possible channels that can bring hostile information to us, of course, with the Internet, where a couple of taps still have all these channels. Yes, good work has been done. TTJA has banned the transmission of hostile television channels, but it is no secret that they can still be viewed via satellite. I have found startling stories about how hospitable Estonia has accommodated refugees in hotels where these TV channels are still visible. How can it be felt in people who have come into exile, to people who support them, to stand up for them? Not to mention the Internet channels again. Of course, print media are still [available]. To prevent all of this, this bill has been brought before you. What's happened in the meantime? I don't mean the political situation, we all know that. But some media experts, who were very gentle about the time we handed over our bill, were willing to tax these channels, that if you want to, look, but for money, have now made a 180-degree turn and say the same thing that these channels need to be shut down, they need to be prevented. Last night was extremely signicant for me when the Director General of the First Studio, Arnold Sinisalu, was performing, who I am not quoting exactly, but whose point was (and that is said yesterday): do we have to let our information room be poisoned ourselves? If we had to let go, it sounded in my ears too. "To poison" is an extremely precise wording. Once again, it is a good thing that TTJA has banned the channels of propaganda. But that does not diminish the importance of this bill. And what is extremely important is that banning hostile propaganda must not be left to one authority alone. This should be our decision, thus the decision of the government. So long, then, my introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U378	Now you get questions and answers. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U379	Good manager! Good waitress! Such a nice haikulik bill, three lines, very philosophical. But do I understand [right] that if there is a proposal to propose to the Government of the Republic to take adequate measures, the authors want to say that the government is taking inadequate measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U380	One very humorous question, but as I saw from my group that everyone nodded along on the word 'inappropriate', I can only agree here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U381	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U382	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Certainly a topical draft, but, as you said yourself, this issue has already gone a little sour, the government has already implemented some of the measures. Do you agree that, in fact, this draft could also include concrete measures that the government should take? Because indeed, this current wording is very general.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U383	Thank you for your question. I tend to think that the government may be able to read between the lines and, however, to put these concrete measures on the table itself. Of course, it can be written down, as I said, that we do not have the Internet channels or the print media or the sky channels mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, anything. Of course, it's possible to tell them everything, that that's exactly how we want you to do it. But the hope remains that they will respond adequately to the situation. I hope I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U384	You're an optimist, nobleman. Optimist. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U385	Thank you! Good waitress! I'm looking and reading here, and I can't seem to find a decision. I'm just reading one thing. The Commission withdrew some vote and then it was re-made. What decision did the Commission reach, let us say, as a result of this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U386	Thank you for your question. The Commission's work will be discussed by the next rapporteur, and I believe it will be very thoroughly and with great passion. But the Commission just decided to answer the question of sending it to the big hall. This is probably the case with draft decisions: either send them or not send them. Yeah. That's the time they decided to send it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U387	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U388	Thank you. The adequacy of the measures. On 18 March, at Luzhnik Stadium, a praise concert was held in the conduct of Putin in Ukraine. Ruki Vverh!, who gave a big concert last week in Tallinn. Latvia has compiled a blacklist of Kremlin propaganda artists so that they do not come to their country, at that time we allow them to enter the country and organise concerts and events here. Üllar, I ask you, as well as a cultural person, for a personal opinion on this disgraceful situation, whether, in order to ban propaganda, the government should immediately create such a blacklist so that the Kremlin propaganda actors do not move around the free world.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U389	Thank you for your question. Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits, a member of the Isamaa Group, has raised this issue in the Committee on Culture, and on quite a number of occasions. If my memory doesn't fool me, we even talked about it at a meeting yesterday with the Ministry of Culture officials and the Minister himself. A little vague was their answer. It was also argued that it would be very difficult for them themselves to draw up this list because of who to leave in, who to throw out. Would this band, Ruki Vverh!, be placed on one side or on the other, and who should do this preliminary work for them? In short, this issue has been discussed. What do I personally think? Of course, all artists, absolutely all artists, not only musicians, but also actors who have expressed their sympathy for such a brutal military invasion of Ukraine, for the cruelty that goes on there, should delete the word "artist" for their name.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U390	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U391	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's good. That's good. In fact, it is extremely unfortunate that the ministers of our government do not dare to decide in this current situation and talk about a very round story that could be done in this way and could be done if I think about what you have just explained to us, how this matter was reflected in the Committee on Culture. What do you think should be done to give our rulers a little personal courage to make reasonable decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U392	Somehow, I don't think there's enough courage. If we go to this bill now, it was entangled behind the fact that all this is already being dealt with, that, as I said, we are breaking through the open door that it is already in operation. Perhaps, as a quintessence of this, it would be most accurate for you to quote for a moment the honourable chairman of the committee, who said that he would acknowledge the drafters for his part, but, in this case, by looking at the coalition, there is a message in the draft: get to work! Which has been done by the government. He added that he did not consider it necessary to vote in favour of the draft in this case. I think maybe that answer to the question you asked is in here somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U393	I'm just pointing out by Jaak Juske that it's possible to ask a question to either of the waitresses. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U394	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here it has now been said several times that the draft is not as perfect and ideal and that there is no list of adequate measures for the government by Parliament. But my question also follows from previous questions and from what Urmas Reinsalu asked concerning the creation of the blacklist of artists and the answer, as I understand it, from the Minister for Culture and the coalition politicians, that it is very difficult to define who to refuse and to whom to refuse. Well, if the same logic is followed when imposing sanctions, which have been applied both by country and by the European Union as a whole, and which are gradually being supplemented by changes in the situation, they could not be implemented either. What is the position of the initiator of the draft? Is it really the case that if we cannot find the perfect solution and put all the artists on the list or take all the measures, then it is better not to do anything at all and see how things work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U395	That's a very good question. I tend to be positive and think that the request made yesterday by the Minister of Culture that maybe someone can help with the drawing up of this list is actually sincere. 'Cause either way, I wouldn't be able to read from this remote, either, so these, these, and these names. I could tell you, right, Filip Kirkorov, but, as you know, he's got a Bulgarian passport. So he doesn't go directly under these sanctions. A show. Even George Ratas wonders about it, I'll take a look. [[George Ratas is saying something.]] Great. It is also possible to place a Bulgarian passport. Of course, we just have to work and find out who these artists are, because they are world famous people, at least in the part of Europe we live in. Known and known who has done this clearly and specifically. And that's how you make this list. Cruelly. I'd use that word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U396	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U397	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I now did not fully understand the debate that has been held in the Committee on Culture both on this draft and on a wider scale. On the one hand, you said that, when discussing this specific draft, it was said that this bill is like we are ramming through an open door. On the other hand, if we ask why there is no list of cultural people, groups that should not perform in Estonia, who have performed at concerts that praise Putin, it is said that no one can draw up this list in order to work as it is. What's it like? I think this government is running after me all the time. Maybe that's when we can finally cancel all those who have held the concert in Estonia and afterwards we have discovered it. You can do that, but then it doesn't make any sense. My suggestion is that you send the Minister of Culture, if no one has a better idea, the list that Latvia has made. Let him start there if there's no better idea. But it can't be that we think and ram through the open door at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U398	Thank you. That was very good advice. I think it is difficult to comment on this list of Latvia itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U399	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U400	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress Surlar! In the context of this propaganda, it is often made clear, even from the top politicians, that Russian channels must not be banned, because the Russian-language media in Estonia are weak. I do not know how they relate to each other, because in fact we are also talking in this draft specifically that propaganda is actually used in the Russian context, in the context of the aggressor, as a weapon to influence people. And it has also worked very well, we all understand that clearly. But how do you figure that out? If the Russian media are as weak as this, has the Committee on Culture discussed this in any way in this case, what should we do to make sure that we are better, with a clear message, to include this information channel for our Russian-speaking sootia itself, rather than to allow someone else to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U401	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, there have been brief conversations on this subject, some suggestions have been made, but it has not become very specific. The representative of the Ministry of Culture did not even so much defend the ban, he did not defend, he agreed. But he gave a simple example that if, for example, Narva or Ida-Virumaa's old lady is used to watching entertainment from these and these channels and we take away this opportunity, then what do we offer her instead? This kind of dialogue was indeed. On this point, I remember, Viktoria replied that an artist who is on a show could praise Putin's actions at the next moment and, at the third moment, give a speech about how important this all is and, at the next moment, play in a great movie again. Of course, as far as we know, even in the case of the Golden Mask, which is the best Russian theatre festival and which has been organised in Estonia for several years, it is practically impossible to get a ticket because it is a high art. But these very high artists can be very, very hostile to anything but Russia. Why am I talking about this? Not only is the news what the Russian people expect, but it also awaits entertainment. I tend to think that in this area we are poor enough to offer it to them here in Estonia. That's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U402	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U403	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good first speaker! It is kind of entertaining to observe your debate within the political group, and it is quite interesting how broad a subject can be. The bill itself is a few lines long and specifically talks about preventing Russian propaganda, and finally we are talking about Ruki Vverh!. My colleague onion says he doesn't understand. I am a member of the Committee on Culture and, at some point, I no longer understand exactly what this debate is about, but that is why. Since I sensed that the Isamaa Group did not trust the government, who would decide on the adequacy of the adoption of this draft? Whatever the outcome, who is the one who appreciates it, is it adequate or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U404	Thank you very much for your question. I think this will be decided by the grand hall of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U405	We have a procedure. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U406	Thank you, Mr President. Can you explain how Mr Šorin knows exactly the content and topics of the debate within the Isamaa Group? Can you tell me if it's some kind of wiretapping or where he's got that kind of information?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U407	Thank you. I don't know what to say. He hasn't shared it with anyone else. You'll still have to ask him directly. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U408	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable... [[It's a long break.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U409	Üllar Saaremäe. [[They're laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U410	I have a feeling they're looking for a reason not to do anything. Who draws up the lists of artists and others? They don't need to be compiled, they're all there. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. They're all known, they're not hiding, they're bragging about it. And they're on the list right now, taking off Wikipedia and that's it. The 2008 invasion of Georgia may be added.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U411	Thank you very much. Since there was no question, perhaps the answer to Mr Marko Šorin is that, since this is the draft of the Fatherland, we know what we are talking about. And it may not really make sense to you, but we're trying to make it clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U412	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U413	Thank you for the floor. Noble! Surely, from the time that the Fatherland was in government, the things that the Fatherland dealt with in the last few years of its reign in the fight against propaganda could be highlighted. If you haven't noticed, I'm sure the former ministers of the Fatherland, experienced politicians, maybe they've talked about this in the group's discussions. Can you give examples of how, for example, during the second reign of Jüri Ratas in the Isamaa government, Russia decisively and resolutely blocked propaganda, just as Urmas Reinsalu here always likes to do things?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U414	Thank you for your question. Good Indrek, your political memory is considerably longer. You've been in this thing considerably longer and you've seen it from the inside. I should start thinking about everything. But your question concerns Jüri Ratas' second government, perhaps the beginning of its composition. I think Urmas Reinsalu might be able to answer that question himself. Or is this not possible in the current format? It's really hard for me to speculate. What I want to say, however, is that this moment and this situation are considerably different, quite seriously, without a smile in any corner of the eye. Even people who love darkest humor do not have the opportunity or the right to joke about it. That's why there won't be any wit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U415	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Now I'm saying that this format here at Urmas Reinsalu doesn't allow a discussion with Indrek Island, but it's possible to ask for a procedure. Please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U416	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your glorious past also includes being a Minister of Finance in the previous government, and you should be informed that it was precisely when I was serving as Minister of Foreign Affairs that Sputnik's office was shut down in Estonia. Can you confirm that? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U417	Yeah, it's public information, we can confirm it, yeah. Got it! It is now possible to proceed with the next presentation. Member of the Cultural Commission Signe Kivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U418	I thought they changed the glass. Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the proceedings on this draft in the Committee on Culture, which took place on Monday 4 April this year as a second item on the agenda. Commanded by Aadu Black, chairman of the commission. Members of the committee Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaak Juske, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Tõnis Mölder, who was Marko Šorin's alternate, Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Margit Sutrop and Jaak Valge. Daniel Raudsepp, Deputy Secretary-General of the Arts of the Ministry of Culture, Karin Ligi, Legal Adviser and Audiovisual Adviser Siim Rohtla were invited. The draft introduced Üllar Saaremäe, who also did so here in depth. So I'm not going to read the minutes, but to his introduction, the representative of the Ministry of Culture, Daniel Raudsepp, added his explanation. He said the following. The Media Services Act already limits the display of several Russian television channels on Estonian soil. It's much more complicated with Internet channels. Some of the online portals in Estonia are limited, based on the Electronic Communications Act and the Penal Code. He also pointed out that the printing media is also a channel from which the same publications spread the propaganda of war to Estonia. Both Russian magazines and newspapers come to our attention. He mentioned that Omniva has actually taken certain steps on its own initiative to limit the distribution of publications, but it has not been possible to restrict it entirely. I would also like to read out a letter from the Ministry of Culture to us earlier. It was sent on 4 March by Legal Adviser Karin Ligi, and it says: "The Media Services Act has the means to prevent television programs containing hostile propaganda, and making such a proposal to the Government of the Republic does not lead to the inevitable need to change laws according to the Ministry of Culture. Existing measures can in principle always be supplemented, but, as has already been said, there are bases in the current Media Services Act to limit the freedom to receive and retransmission of television programmes. " I read it because it was available to the Commission, but it is not currently in the Commission's protocol. The following discussion, questions were asked, attended by Heidy Purga, Üllar Saaremäe, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Margit Sutrop, Jaak Valge, Aadu Black and the speaker before you. Heidy Purga asked if it was true that the law did not provide a means of proactively preventing propaganda channels from entering the market, and what would be the easiest solution to be proactive. Aadu Black added to this the question of whether it is necessary to amend the law or whether it may be delegated, for example, to the level of government regulation or other standard. Karin Ligi then pointed out a text that had already been read out and stressed that the Ministry of Culture's earlier written statement that there was no need to amend the law applied to the text of a specific draft and to the explanatory memorandum, where there was a reference specifically to the restriction of television channels. He reiterated that these possibilities really existed in the Media Services Act and also said that it was always possible to foresee additional measures requiring the amendment of the Act. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits stressed that she did not agree with the position of the Ministry of Culture, everything was not okay. He gave an example of Estonian hotels where you can still watch propaganda channels, even though they are banned in Estonia. Jaak White asked how many Russian television watchers had been in the past and how many could there be now. We didn't get an answer to that. But if you promise, I will also read out that Jaak Valge considered it necessary to add that he does not represent the views of his party when he states that he has doubts about the draft, because Estonia is a free democratic state, there is free distribution in Estonia and the opportunity to freely spread the truth from his side to his people. He asked if it was really fear that we in Estonia would be under the influence of propaganda. Daniel Raudsepp replied that yes, it is a philosophical problem and it is difficult to explain philosophically from the surface, but in fact the problem is wider and we all understand that it starts with school and language learning. But he agreed that, as Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits and Jaak Valge pointed out in their questions and opinions, this is a complex whole problem and a proposal for analysis is justified in every way, because this analysis was sought. The speaker here debated with Jaak White and found that Estonia is a free democratic state, but it is important to inform society that we have legislative measures against propaganda and the symbols, defamation and lying of the aggressors. Let's keep going. Margit Sutrop now added to the previous debate that, if only to prohibit the transmission of false facts and information, this is not enough, as there is a very wide-ranging exercise of influence. And he expressed his concern by referring to a specific proposal for a draft law that it was a long-term process and so long the propaganda already in place could go very far. This should not be underestimated, so that action should be taken decisively and quickly. We really discussed the draft and this problem in a much broader way, and Mr Must, the chairman of the committee, reminded us that there was a debate on a specific draft. He found that a substantive analysis of the media area had taken place, involving the Ministry of Culture, Estonian Public Broadcasting and also international organisations. And as the previous speaker has already mentioned, the chairman of the committee also said that he himself does not consider it necessary to vote in favour of the draft in this case. Jaak Juske reacted to this, who felt that the draft was still topical, because this debate referred to it. We must do everything to better prevent, restrict and prohibit anti-Estonian propaganda. Yes, indeed, freedom of expression is a very important freedom in a democratic country, but this freedom of expression can also be used against democracy, emphasised Jaak Juske. Aadu Black said that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu would be required to adopt the draft as a decision. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has confirmed this need and it was available as a text to the members of the committee. I know it's possible to get acquainted with it in this room today. The chairman of the committee proposed to appoint a speaker before you to represent the Commission, to propose a draft on the plenary agenda on 12 April, to propose a final vote on the draft, and to repeat once again that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to adopt the draft as a decision. On its side were Aadu Must, Signe Kivi, Jaak Juske, Üllar Saaremäe, Heidy Purga, Margit Sutrop, Tõnis Mölder, Helle-Moonika Helme and Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits. Jaak White abstained. Then the Commission's advisor Urvo Klopets intervened, who added, insofar as it was overlooked, that linguistic and technical changes had been introduced to the draft text. They're very small, but very important. Technically, the preamble to the draft has been organised and the language part of the text: "Estonia's hostile," two different words, has been replaced by the text section "Estonia's anti-Estonian." On this point, Jaak White asked for a new vote, as he announced that he was in agreement with this text. And Aadu Black cancelled the Commission's vote, put the draft back to the vote, and it was therefore decided: to propose a draft on the plenary agenda on 12 April 2022, the decision was taken by consensus; to propose a final vote on the draft; the decision was taken by consensus; to appoint Signe Kivi as the representative of the lead committee, the consensus. The committee voted that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft decision. This too reached a consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U419	Thank you. Now there are questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U420	Good manager! Dear waitress, Was it discussed in the Commission that this draft has achieved some sort of ultimate clarity, ultimate shortness and grind, such a golden stem text that is acceptable [to be added later]? At first, the [do] government is proposing adequate and effective measures, and can be moved, for example, from excessive emissions of greenhouse gases to prevent heat death or to the arrival of excessive migrants here or to promote education in Estonian and so on? Was it discussed that it could later be used in almost every situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U421	Thank you. The answer to your question is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U422	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U423	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question that, when we spoke here with the previous waitress about the discussion, it was as if there had been a statement in the committee or a reference that this bill was intended to break through an open door, that the government was already operating and that certain propaganda channels were banned in Estonia. Then a good colleague, Viktoria, pointed out that they can still be seen in certain hotels, even though they are banned in Estonia. And also on the Internet they can be seen. What is this view or understanding: what has the government forbade? Are they visible in Estonia or not? And do we have to do something else, or do we have to ban these same channels for the second time, so that they cannot be seen in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U424	Thank you. There was no such debate in the Commission. As you mentioned, though, there was a more general understanding that the problem was being addressed and that it still needs to be addressed. But as a waitress, I can tell you right now that, in preparation for this report by the Commission, I took out the channels and Internet sites that are banned today. I have these materials. I can share it with anyone interested. It's a long list. Since the Commission has not dealt with it, but I think it is necessary to mention it, I will still answer you. It seems to me that very strong action has been taken. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U425	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U426	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would like to move on from here to my colleague onion. I understand, of course, that you yourself have searched out the list that has been reached. However, the government has said that it has all the resources. And on the other hand, we all know that the problem has not been finally resolved today. These channels are coming up, or they haven't been able to find them yet, I don't know. Was it also during the debate in the Commission that what is still missing in the end? For example, some cable channels are open, they are not all responsive. Is it really a question of supervision, or where is this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U427	Thank you very much for your question. No, there was no such in-depth discussion based on the facts you referred to. And I, according to § 98 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, which says that the general principles at first reading of the draft are being discussed, really I wanted to give a fairly broad overview of our protocol. This is not a debate in the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U428	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U429	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If I listen to you, it will appear that philosophical problems such as freedom of expression or some kind of security restrictions were discussed in the Commission and so on. I am an advocate of maximum freedom of expression. But didn't you also discuss in the Commission that we are currently in a completely exceptional situation? There hasn't been a war like this since World War II. The criminal regime, as Russia is now, has not been since the destruction of Nazi Germany. Has it not been discussed that these are not speeches there and so on, but in Russia's foreign policy and military doctrine all these things are a soft force used as a force of war? That's an exclusive statement, directly. Wasn't that discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U430	Thank you. I would like to thank you for this question, for the opinion that, I hope, I can say, was shared by most of the Members of the Commission. However, the question was not discussed directly in this wording. I do consider it necessary to stress that the author of the draft, Üllar Saaremäe, started his introduction that the draft had been submitted on 14 February, 10 days before the war. He gave a certain tone to our debate. And I myself stressed in my speech that on 14 February there was an alarming situation and on 24 February it made the situation tens of times worse. This is what I read in the minutes of the Commission, according to your question. But I admit I share your point of view. This is a situation in which we never wanted anyone to be. But that was not specifically said by me or anyone else. That feeling was in the room.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U431	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U432	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I read the Commission's minutes, it says: "The Kivi said that on 14 February there was an alarming situation and on 24 February it made the situation tens of times worse. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, the draft concerns only television channels for propaganda. According to the stone, it is already known that the government is currently developing a wider package. " My question is: When did this information come to you that the government is already working on it and that there will be a wider package?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U433	Thank you for this question. I cannot tell you the date, and since it has not been fixed in the protocol, nor was there a debate on this issue, I will take this opportunity to say that we did not have a debate in this way. But I thought it was necessary to say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U434	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U435	Thank you. Good colleague! As a member of the Committee on Culture, you have certainly seen this debate on restricting and effectively banning propaganda channels for a long time. We had long needed to update the Media Services Act, although it has been updated at the last minute, based on the revised Audiovisual Media Services Directive, in order to make use of the opportunity it offers to curb foreign propaganda from the territory of another country. And we were actually obliged to take over by September 2020. During the time you have now been a member of the Commission, have you seen how the proposers of this draft have viewed the amendment of the Media Services Act, which we waited a very long time to amend and which was amended, finally adopted by the Riigikogu on 16 February this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U436	Thank you very much for this question. The question was addressed to me as to whether I had been familiar with or noticed the respective steps taken by the initiators of the draft. The honest answer is I haven't been able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U437	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U438	Thank you. A representative of the good Commission. Listening to this discussion, I am a little puzzled by the fact that we come from the COVID crisis when we declared an emergency in the country and did a great deal, actually imposing sanctions. Today we are essentially at war with Russia in this light, the whole of Europe [is at war], and we are discussing softly whether we should do what should be done and what should be done. Please make it clear that Mr Marko Šorin, the colleague of the Committee on Culture, has said that he will no longer understand anything, whether the Commission has also stated its position in addition to sending this draft to the Chamber. Did he also form an understanding, or was it not necessary to formulate such an understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U439	Thank you. As a result of the Commission's discussion, questions and answers, it was decided to send the draft to the Chamber and to send its own personal opinion, which has also been recorded in the minutes, only the chairman of the committee said. Üllar Saaremäe, introducing the bill, read it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U440	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U441	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madame waitress! You rightly pointed out that on February 14 the world was quite different. Now he's changed. And many symbols have changed, many meanings, and the Russians have changed them themselves. And actually, let's face it, some Russian war movie is hostile propaganda, a tank on the Narva River is hostile propaganda, red memorials are hostile propaganda, and basically, hostile propaganda is also playing some song in Aleksandrov's choir somewhere in Radio 4. So where is the border to combat this hostile propaganda? As a member of the government department, do you have any idea if the government is trying to expand this notion of hate speech or any kind of hostile propaganda?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U442	Thank you for your opinion. What I think of myself from February 24 and from the earlier period is how I'm going to survive, which I'm willing to talk to you about. These elements of hostile propaganda mentioned by the Members of the Commission [didn't hear], and neither did the protocol in writing, but I am convinced, and now I am exceeding my powers that we all feel the same way. And there's more and more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U443	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U444	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'd like to take a brief look at the situation. Really, this protocol puts in my mouth the words that ten days before the war. I certainly did not say that, it is obvious that we must interrogate the tape, because I am with my benchmate and many others in this Chamber convinced that the war began eight years ago. But my question is to you: what are the reasons why it is not accepted today?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U445	Thank you very much. I do not know whether it will be adopted today or whether it will not be adopted today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U446	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U447	Thank you. I have a very similar question to what had been asked before me, but still. Unfortunately, the situation in the Riigikogu is that we offer some sort of option and then, one and a half months later, we will discuss whether this option is still good or not good enough. The situation has indeed changed greatly, and the proposals that are in the draft are still valid, because all the measures that have been implemented are not strong enough. And that is why the whole discussion, which was ultimately in the Committee on Culture, was much wider than this draft offers. But basically, what's the point of this bill? The point of this draft is that the government should come up with its own limitations or frameworks, how we deal not only with television as a weapon, with the weapons of propaganda, but also with the cultural sphere, for example, if it is not only a matter of culture but also of internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U448	Thank you. There was no question, but, good colleague, I agree with you. You also presented these views at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U449	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U450	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understood from your review now that it was understood in the Committee on Culture, at least the coalition ambassadors realised that the existing legislation and legal space allow for the ban on channels of propaganda and that there is no need for further legislation to be adopted. But why, then, are we now in the situation that some channels are still available, I can assure you, for example, in Jõhvi, Ida-Viru County? Why, then, is this the case, and why has it not been acted quickly enough? I also understood that officials were invited to the Commission's meeting, not different ministers at political level. Why did the Commission not consider it necessary to involve the ministerial level in the debate? All the more so as we know that certain decisions are within the competence of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Culture, whether he is preparing lists or refusing entry for people [application]. Why was it not necessary to involve the political level?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U451	Thank you very much. I admit that the first part of the question... I can't concentrate very well. The other party, however, why no such proposal or question has yet been asked by the members of the Commission. Perhaps the President will allow this to be repeated in the first half of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U452	Yeah, can I have the microphone for the Sounder again, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U453	I understand from your review that at least the coalition ambassadors in the Commission found that today's legal space is sufficient to implement certain restrictions and ban channels, so there is no need for further legislation. And yet, the situation is that these channels are available. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U454	Thank you very much. I do not quite agree that this was the impression of the statements, discussions and questions made by the coalition ambassadors. If it's off the record, I don't count it out of here. All of us put forward our views and, in fact, our concerns. So I could say that we actually had a substantive, constructive debate and a discussion that understood this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U455	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U456	Thank you for the courage to expose in your presentation the mental confusion that prevailed during the discussion of this problem in the Committee on Culture. My question to you is whether you could give a brief overview of this debate in the Committee on Culture with representatives of the Ministry of Culture, which specifically concerned the possible introduction of a blacklist of Kremlin propaganda artists. What views were expressed there by government representatives in a situation where today a disgraceful case has become known to Parliament that Ruki Vverh, the band who participated in the Ukrainian extermination concert at Luzhnik Stadium! performed with a completely free hand in Tallinn last week?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U457	Dear colleague Urmas Reinsalu! There was no mental confusion and there is no record of the Committee on Culture. The blacklist, the possible artists of which have been mentioned in this hall, was not dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U458	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Now we can go to the negotiations. First word to Tarmo Kruusimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U459	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Good Estonian people who are watching us! There's going to be a lot of information here now. It is possible that Isamaa should not be reminded of a longer history, but there are also members of the bloody Riigikogu who may not know it. I can tell you, as chairman of the Fatherland Nationalists' Association, it was probably 2005, but maybe before we started talking about shutting down the channels of pro-Empire propaganda. But this debate has always gotten somewhere that something kind of needs to be done a little bit more and something a little less. After 2007, everyone was already in a rush to shut down these channels of influence, but then the economy grew and went [others]. In fact, there is a more modest side in every political party, or conservative, and there is a liberal side who thinks that everything is somehow developing itself. And so it has happened that the nationalists have perhaps always remained in a different position on this matter. The fact that the Fatherland finally submitted such a simple draft to implement adequate and effective measures to promote anti-Estonian propaganda on 14 February, [is symbolic]. On 14 February 2012, we recognized all the men who were in the hands of a weapon in World War II, de facto standing up for Estonia, as freedom fighters. It's a sign day, too. But we remember there were debates at that point. I started this debate myself in December. That was the simple wording, because we knew the arguments that said that Estonia was the most stupid country in the world, the stupidest country in the world. That's what a lot of experts said. I recall that Lithuania was able to adopt such a decision on 8 July 2020, Latvia on 11 June 2020. The Baltic locomotive has become a Baltic brake. We're still discussing and talking. What's after 24. [February] so it happened? On 25th, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority shut down eight channels. Is that enough? I see that 21 March 2022 Delfis wrote that Estonia is too lenient with regard to Russian propaganda, 21 sites have been closed in Estonia, but a hundred have already been closed in Latvia. We still have a long way to go. Now, if I take the last place in this bill's explanatory statement, I'll see that everything has actually gone well. On the basis of the above, we propose to the Government of the Republic to develop a package of measures to prevent hostile propaganda in Estonia. And as it turns out, the government has already begun to work. I learned that the government has sent the Commission, and on 4 March, the reply from the Ministry of Culture is that yes, the legislation is all there, but there is no indication that the government is already working on it. But that's what's customary, because the opposition ambassadors don't know exactly what their other hand is doing. What's in here now? My question is that perhaps many do not have voters who ask what you do about this hostile propaganda. However, the people who said earlier that we do not need to over-regulate have changed surprisingly today. Seriously. Let me give you a simple example. I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U460	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U461	As a passionate smoker, I couldn't figure out how to ban smoking in pubs. But six months went by when I didn't want to go there anymore. Today, these same people say: Can you imagine showing such a disgust in these television channels abroad? Our values have changed in time. Perhaps the coalition ambassadors will not be asked what you are doing in the Riigikogu. You can't say we're talking a big bubble out of our mouths, why don't you do something? For noble-surprisingly, we all know that the answer always comes: the government is already working out. The Fatherland has made its own proposal. Jess, the government is working on it. But what do others say? Is it really saying that we actually have one Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority that will solve such delicate and embarrassing situations for us, where we do not want or dare to decide for ourselves, because we absolutely want everyone to like us? That is why Isamaa finds that we forget what was before 24 February and see if we can get the consensus in the Riigikogu that we are giving this task because it sounds acoustically that the government works well, but the opposition is simply short-sighted and does not know anything, because we already know it. In a situation like this, all you have to do is take out the 22nd, the 21st, I'm talking February. But now these so-called artists. The Social Democrats here were very witty and sharp. I will now tell you about the meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee on 25 March, where Tiit Terik, Minister of Culture, was. I asked him that Muž babuški no ne deduška, or in the translation "grandmother's man, but not Grandpa," Filip Kirkorov is coming to Estonia to perform, after all, he is not welcome for us. Tiit Terik said that we have the autonomy of the local government, and the assistant mayor of the area, Kaarel Oja, does not find any argument as to why he should be banned. And that was March 25th. The Social Democrats may have put it a little bit on the side with the mayor's choice, but I think at the moment when you're still so brutally screwed, you're gonna have to ridicule the initiative of others. I hope that the coalition actually thinks we have to deal with this, and we have to deal with it effectively, because one thing is the television channels, but we still need to solve the Internet and everything else. If we have given the will of the Riigikogu and the wish to remain within the framework of the law with this matter, then everyone could support this draft decision. But we can, of course, interpret. And I believe that all members of the Riigikogu have now understood what is hostile propaganda, which we must prevent and why we must prevent. Let's encourage the government, whatever it is, to protect our ritual from poisoning. Thank you. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U462	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Indrek Saare, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Three minutes extra time, eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U463	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you today about political gambling in connection with this bill, unfortunately. Time around us gives us an obligation to think very carefully how far we as politicians, looking for attention to substitute actions and half-sisters, at times with false claims, are willing to go and the risks we take in our society. Perhaps it will help those who, blindly trusting their most experienced colleagues or party leaders, have gone slippery for a moment to think about the nature and appearance of things. I am certainly not addressing Mr Kruusimäe here, because watching him porridge about what Kaarel Oja is doing in the word of God is a place where they say Father, forgive them, they do not know what they are doing. But I come to the point. I'm sorry to burden you with some facts and a time series. The processing of the draft law amending the Media Services Act and other laws here in the Riigikogu was blocked for a very long time by the joint forces of the two parties, Isamaa and EKRE. As a result, Estonia was able to transpose the European Union Audiovisual Media Services Directive into its law very late and it only came into force after Russia had started a massive brutal war on 24 February. More specifically, the president announced it on 25 February. Then TTJA also reacted and it was published in the Official Journal of the State on the 27th. While the date of entry into force of the provisions of the Directive was 19 September 2020, while Isamaa was an active member of the government, Estonia was only able to do so one and a half years later. This delay also meant that Estonia's outdated Media Services Act, which was based on the obsolete directive of the European Union, did not include the important standards that were included in the revised Audiovisual Media Services Directive of the European Union. It was during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2017 that, with the help of the likes of thought, the mechanisms for regulating the distribution of these cross-border media services were significantly modified in the directive being renewed, making it much more favourable than before to the country of destination of media services from another Member State and allowing the interests of the country of destination, its security, the stability of society and the information space to be protected more effectively and quickly. For a long time, Estonia was unable to make use of the much better means available in the directive to protect its interests and effectively restrict aggressive channels of influence with Russian content in our information space, as the old Media Services Act did not provide good opportunities for this. But the transposition of a new, much better mechanism in the Riigikogu was long prevented by several hundred stacked proposals for improvement. It was already launched in February 2021, which, unfortunately, directly damaged Estonia's interests at the time. For some reason, in the draft amendment to the Media Services Act, two parties highlighted only one provision, § 19: extending the prohibition of incitement to hatred to incite violence and terrorist offences, addressing the context and the meaning of the law externally and creating a wave of hysteria around it, with the support of which they exhibited themselves as hot defenders of freedom of expression and media freedom. At the same time, while a reasoned update of the implementation of the hate ban under arbitrary interpretations was hindered, the transposition of Article 3 of the EU AVMSD, which was thoroughly amended, was also prevented, allowing a Member State to act in the defence of its security and stability as soon as the first serious infringement was detected in a cross-border media service. All our neighbours, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Sweden and others, had long understood and transposed the need for the rapid implementation of the revised norms of this directive in their national law, but in Estonia it was obstructed for a determined long time, thus weakening the country's ability to act decisively in defending its interests in our information room. And when a dubious compromise was found on the extension of the prohibition of hate speech in § 19 of the Media Services Act after a long period of silence and an arduous search, an addition was added to it, which in fact weakens the content of this rule and limits the possibilities of implementing it in restricting cross-border media services. True, the revised Media Services Act now has the mechanism that was fought out during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and which allows to act vigorously and prevent the spread of media services from another Member State in Estonia if it is found that it threatens the security and defence of our country and, more generally, the stability of society. This is a good and important addition, which we have now, although very late, but in the end, taken over. At the same time, the addition to § 19 of the revised Media Services Act, which is the compromise you have requested, significantly limits the scope for controlling and restricting brutal hate speech in media services from another country. Why? Because even if, for example, in some of our foreign television channels, hatred and violence are encouraged on ethnic grounds, on the basis of race, gender, language, political beliefs or birth, or any other form of group character, our national supervision would only be able to limit the spread of this television channel in Estonia if it has been proven that the incitement of such hate speech poses a threat to a person's life, health or property. Unfortunately, in real life, proofing such direct links is difficult and often impossible for foreign media services. But it's the case law. Therefore, we cannot now apply the ban on incitement to hatred and violence as effectively as possible in practice and, on this basis, really restrict the channels of aggressive propaganda with Russian content, for example, friends. Why would you necessarily add that addition? You could say he's still unclear. Was it not possible to foresee and understand the harmfulness of this arbitrary supplement, its weakening effect in protecting Estonia's interests in our information space and ensuring the stability of society? Well, I don't think the former Minister for Justice and Foreign Affairs, Urmas Reinsalu, could understand that. In his political experience! All the more so as he was the Minister of Justice just as Estonia, as President of the Council of the European Union, and the Baltic and other colleagues, defended this point. He had to be informed in essence, although the negotiator was the Ministry of Culture, the responsible minister was me. But Reinsalu has always closely monitored the content of such draft laws and directives. Russia's brutal war in Ukraine and the systematic use of controlled media by the Putin regime as a weapon and tool in the preparation, execution, justification and concealment of Kremlin aggression should also make us think about the need to amend our rule of law so that we really have the best up-to-date and effective tools to protect Estonia's interests, which directly affects what is happening in our information space and, more generally, throughout the country. The government should therefore repair as soon as possible the scrap that was introduced into the Media Services Act as a result of the cynical campaign of EKRE and Isamaa and as a result of the submissive behaviour of the government. If this draft decision would lead to this, then we could even vote in favour of it. Finally. Upright, obviously we watched the same show yesterday, but you maybe on one side of the river, me on the other side of the river, which is why we noticed a little different things. I have to say, watching this show, when host Kuusk and Arnold Sinisalu constantly came up with the theme "Useful idiots," it seemed to me that from time to time we are also acting like useful idiots in this hall, talking black white and dealing with substitution activities. I hope that, in today's situation, we will consider these things in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U464	Thank you. Due to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will be able to speak at first reading with representatives of the political groups and committees. However, I now emphasise that, if, by chance, a group does not speak, agreement with this group can always empower someone if this group agrees. So there's a chance. We have to move on from here. Mart Võrguship, representative of the Reform Party Group. I'm sorry! I'm sorry for a second. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U465	Yeah, well, thank you for the opportunity to mention my name. And I can now say that there will not be such a social democratic notion that Father and God, everyone should forgive me now that I do not know what I am saying out of my mouth. I will stick to these facts that Tiit Terik was at the European Union Affairs Committee on 25 March, being the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Estonia. I asked that question. I am also of the opinion that we have the autonomy of the local government that it can decide for itself, and I also say that this is the fact that today in Tallinn the deputy mayor of the respective area is by the Social Democratic Party Kaarel Oja. So I don't see anything wrong here. What is interesting, however, is, as we have now realised, that the speech had actually been made by the Socialists. Once again, I would like to stress the idea that if we can do a number of things together in Parliament, we would forget what we thought about these things before 24 February, and move forward by giving the Government of the Republic this knowledge and the support that Parliament is united in supporting an adequate solution to these matters. That was my positive idea. Of course, we can also give the impression that we actually have some authorities that can do much better. But, well, getting behind the directive, it was probably because the speech was already done, it had to be turned down. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U466	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Mart Võrguship.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U467	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate my fellow Members from the Isamaa Group, who have come up on 14 February with a commendable proposal to limit the spread of hostile propaganda in Estonia to the government. Unfortunately, the time has come from this debate in the sense that these decisions have already been made in Estonia. On 20 February, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority ordered the retransmission of five Russian and one Belarusian television channels on Estonian territory: RTR Planeta, NTV Mir, also NTV Mir Baltic, Belarus 24, Rossija 24, TV Centre International. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also proposes that the government negotiate with the liaison companies. Here too is a happy message: on Monday, February 28 Elisa and Telia stopped the Russian-speaking channels PBK Eesti, Dom Kino Baltic, Karussel, Muzyka Pervogo, Vremja, Telekafe, Bober, Dom Kino Premium, Premium HD, O! Poehali! , REN TV display. Telia will also stop CTC Media transmission. The TTJA is also constantly monitoring websites and restricting access to those channels or other material justifying Russia's aggression. So there is a reason for the government to recognise the work of the Reform Party Group in this area and to move forward with its agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U468	Thank you. Raivo Tamm, Fatherland has already received word. But you still want to say something? Give me a microphone, Raivo Tammele, please! What's your problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U469	I'm awaiting authorization.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U470	You're awaiting a warrant. Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U471	From the Centre Party, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U472	I am not the chairman of the group. But you let me know loudly, I don't know. Like I said, it's perfectly possible. Now, Jaak Juske, you want to say something too. What's your problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U473	Right. As a good colleague of Kruusimäe wrongly accused social democrats...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U474	No, I'm sorry! [[Jaak Juske will continue to speak.]] You can do it if you want to use it. Well, that's not possible. It was so that there was Indrek Saar, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, that Tarmo Kruusimäe made a response. But now for his reception, it's going to be like a horse running around here, no, you can't. It's not meant to be. You can't do that. [[A voice from the hall.]] You have a chance to speak here. Let's keep going. You see, you're inventive, just like the others in front, so everybody follow. Procedural question, Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U475	It's a procedure. I hope you can't lie in this hall and during the trial. My colleague Kruusimäe accused Deputy Mayor Kaarel Oja of several sins. On the initiative of Deputy Mayor Kaarel Oja, the City Government of Tallinn has today terminated the contract for the rental of the premises of this Putin praiser concert, and the Deputy Mayor Oja has asked the government to draw up a so-called blacklist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U476	Okay. And now from this hall of Tallinn City Council, we move forward, we come back to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põljaasa. I apologize for a moment, Mr. Põllamas! I understand you now have an address, Mr Reinsalu. Is it, Urmas Reinsalu? A microphone for Urmas Reinsalu, please. I apologize to you for a moment, Mr. Pierce.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U477	Thank you. Mr Indrek Saar mentioned the name and said that this was a political point. It was the sole thoughtable draft on 14 February to take immediate steps to close the Russian propaganda. It is not enough for the government to do this on 24 February for television channels. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We need a holistic approach as a plan to stop Russian propaganda. And a grotesque example, the same ensemble Ruki Vverh! The performance on 8 April in Tallinn shows that much work has not been done. There is a scholastic debate about this: not knowing how to compile this list, which our Latvian neighbours have been able to do a long time ago. We need a comprehensive government action plan to counter Russian propaganda. This must be Parliament's unambiguous declaration of will, and we must present this declaration of will here. It is not just a matter of closing down a few of the television channels referred to by Mr Networker. It is a question of a comprehensive action plan, including internet sites, for which, as is evident in the current debate, we also have important omissions compared to the Baltic States. Now we need to act without delay. The fact that this bill, which was submitted on 14 February, has been marinated for two months is shameful and disorderly in a war situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U478	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, with Russian hostile propaganda, we are each other every day, every hour. And, unfortunately, that sounds from this very hall of the Riigikogu. Let us recall, even on Monday, the Aliens Act, the first version of which the Government had introduced a claim, as if the military conflict in Ukraine had begun on 24 February this year. We all know it's a lie. But the same position was also very much supported by the Sotsia. It was slightly edited in the meantime, by the way, in violation of the law, because there are no substantive changes between the second and third readings, but it was still done and the whole thing went through with the support of the coalition and the Soviets. When our good colleague Indrek Saar attacked Isamaa and EKRE here, I would like to recall a story from the previous term when I went to the Bastion Museum in Narva with a Finnish group and a Russian guide there, who did not know a word in Estonian, talked long and wide about how fascists, Germans destroyed the city of Narva and bombed it to the ground. Who was the Minister of Culture at the time? Surprise-surprise: Indrek Saar. I turned to him to check what is said in Estonian museums. But he thought there was no problem, let him talk. And that is exactly what we are seeing today: the problem is not demagogism, the problem is not lying. So much was true in Indrek Saare's speech that the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Fatherland blocked the adoption of this Media Services Act. But the reasons that were raised here and why they did it were completely nonsense. I mean the reasons that Indrek Saar put out here. In fact, we opposed it because it contained completely absurd things, according to which if it had been adopted, censorship would have been imposed in Estonia against our media, our press, editors and journalists. Then there would have been no freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of conscience. Yes, it was a directive. But the directive was much more lenient and reasonable than what the government added to this draft or directive. That's what we fought about. Yes, Indrek, it is precisely for this that we fought to preserve democracy in Estonia, to preserve freedom of speech, so that we do not become any orwellian dystopia, where people can be punished for their sensibilities, their words and their sayings. We were successful. Indeed, this obstruction produced fruitage. We reached a compromise with the coalition, and those worst things were taken out of there. And when it had returned to normal tracks, we approved it and this bill was unanimously approved in this very Chamber. After all, all these problems have arisen precisely because, in fact, what we see, what we are being brought to this hall every other day is nothing more than the destruction of our nationhood and the destruction of our democracy. We cannot agree at all, no matter how fiercely it is presented, no matter how we are accused of inventing some sort of nonexistent things about us, about our goals, our goals... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U480	How much do I give?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U481	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U482	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U483	And so the same draft that we are dealing with here today is, in fact, a very simple draft, word or phrase, asking the government to take adequate measures to counter the propaganda of Russia, as well as of Belarus, and of all other parties who are hostile to us, with the aim of clearly dividing our society, dividing our unity, confusing people's heads. Do any of you really have the courage to say that no, the purpose of this bill is wrong? Let propaganda and lies and demagogy continue. So in this respect, I really hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will take this step together, we will approve this [decision]. But if not, then indeed, I personally have the question of asking the government to take adequate steps, if it is refused, then I wonder if today's coalition and the government themselves are adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U484	Thank you. There's a reception now. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U485	Thank you! Since obviously my detailed talk did not make any sense to some people, I will try to explain it more easily this time, once more. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive was the most important file of the Estonian Ministry of Culture during the Estonian Presidency. There, in the light of Estonia's political interests, and in the same way in the light of the political interests of the Baltic States and Poland, Article 3 was the most important one for us. In order to obtain an agreement in this article 3, we were prepared to take a little more time in other articles. But we worked very hard on this Audiovisual Media Services Directive. And this article 3 was necessary for us to limit propaganda from foreign territory. We know that this is not a topical problem for all, not all of the countries of the European Union, like some of the other things that concern Russia's possible aggression and its various forms, but it was very important to us. So I must say to the honourable Henn Põllea that, if he is well aware of what a museum worker in Narva has said, who is not subject to the Minister for Culture, I am quite well aware of what the idea and content of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive is. Two years [Back] should have been transposed by the government with your participation; the deadline for transposition was September 2020. If you had done your job and taken over, we would have had the same opportunities as Latvia and Lithuania for closing the propaganda channels long ago, long before this widespread brutal aggression started on 24 February. But we did not have them because you did not want to transpose this directive for the same economical reasons. And then, when your government had fallen and the new government finally initiated this transposition of the Media Services Act, you blocked it for a year. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U486	Good waitress, your time! Your time is two minutes, two and a half minutes is already gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U487	Finally. Please distinguish between censorship and propaganda. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U488	Now I have a question. Raivo Tamm, you've really been waiting here. There hasn't been a warrant? No. [[A voice from the hall.]] Got it. Then I will really not be able to give you the floor. So I'm closing the negotiations. Now, no amendments to draft 529 have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 529. Let us begin the preparation of this final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to prevent anti-Estonian propaganda" submitted by the Isamaa Group to the final vote of 529. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U489	With the result of 28, 3 votes against and no abstentions, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to combat anti-Estonian propaganda" submitted by the Isamaa Group has fallen out of the procedure. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U490	Agenda item No 9, First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to supplement the Estonian military defence plan." I ask Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U491	Honourable representative of the people! There is a war in Europe, and as a result of Russian aggression and military action, all European countries, especially those bordering the Russian Federation, are in direct danger. And in view of this military threat, we need to take a different approach to planning defence costs for our freedom, our people, to protect our country. If we have used the 2%+ principle in the past, the approach of the proposal of the Fatherland is that we must be guided in the development of national defence not by the financial limiter but by the reverse: we must create without stretching the military capabilities necessary to protect the Estonian state so that we can keep the Estonian territory in our own hands. The Prime Minister expressed his concern and I join his attitude over the fact that the return strategy cannot be what is conceivable to protect Estonia. What does the word "winning back" mean? This means that Estonia's territory is occupied either in whole or in part, and then, with the help of the allies, the territory will be regained, or freed from occupation. If we look at the experience of the war in Ukraine now, the strategy of regaining it is in no way an acceptable approach in our country. In a month alone, in those areas that have been under Russian occupation in Ukraine, this has meant massive destruction of civilians. This means that our approach must be different. And this principle is reflected in the current draft decision of the Riigikogu. Now that we are talking about what needs are, the Government of the Republic has made various decisions concerning political decisions on additional financial allocations for defence. It has thus been decided to raise EUR 390 million in ammo. However, I recall and rightly, if possible, more should be given to give that we have given more than EUR 200 million at the buy-back price, as has now been calculated in this amount, in the form of ammo and armaments to Ukraine. This should be taken into account in this proportion. For 390 million we will buy, but more than 200 we have provided aid, and this aid, I would emphasise once again, has been an extremely necessary and very grateful government policy. It has also decided to plan some EUR 450 million for both ammunition and additional military capabilities. So it's a total size of 800+ million euros. If we withdraw this EUR 200+ million from it, EUR 600+ million will be in the order of additional funding for national defence over the coming years. And there has also been talk of medieval anti-aircraft, but the government has not really made any monetary decision about it. On Monday, I had a conversation with experts from the Ministry of Finance, and the government has not taken this into account in the state finance review. So it's actually open, to what extent and when this anti-aircraft is planned to be purchased. Now, the question is, what kind of power development would be necessary? When we start with the first question, we had a conversation in the Committee on National Defence, a constructive meeting, a debate, it is just when we are talking about the need for NATO-level ammunition that we should acquire, we are talking here not about a few hundred million euros of additional procurement, but this need is actually EUR 1 billion plus, the order of EUR 2 billion, we are going to move this matter into the ammo perspective. Now, next to the ammo, there's a list, a DOD list, just like the media have described. I'm going to read you a short, illustrative list of the abilities you need to acquire. The cost of anti-aircraft missiles for the protection of military facilities in major Estonian cities is 1.5 billion euros; the increase in the number of anti-tank weapons in the order of 120 million euros; the multiplication of artillery troops of 300 million euros; the doubling of protection of land on the basis of the Defence League of 100 million euros; coastal missile systems on the islands and for the protection of the capital of 120 million euros; the increase in the number of multiple rocket launchers of 320 million euros. So when we are talking about military capabilities now, we were the first to talk about the need for ammunition according to NATO standards, about the need for reserves, and now we were talking about the need to acquire military capabilities. This is where I present the material and information, which is actually from the perspective of our national defence officers, the need for ability put together from an expert perspective in practice. So in this context, the fundamental starting point for this draft decision is that Estonia is a parliamentary state and we are now faced with an increased military threat, and it is precisely at parliamentary level that it forces us to make binding decisions so that we can increase our military capabilities without stretching, to acquire ammunition, so that the strategy of regaining Estonia is not conceivable. When we are talking about planning expenditure, indeed, agreements on ammo have been concluded on the basis of the so-called basic budget law on the basis of a government mandate. There has been information in the media in the order of EUR 200 million, but effective financial allocations by the government are currently such that EUR 2.6 million was allocated from the reserve fund to actual military defence at the beginning of the year on the basis of information provided by the Minister of Defence. EUR 2.6 million! And right now, on the basis of my data, the additional draft budget is set at EUR 15,4 million for the development of military capabilities. These are the orders of magnitude we're in now. One thing is the government's political decisions on paper, which are wanted to be seen in the future, but they have not been enforced, because, in fact, the country's budgetary strategy, which is not a management document that provides the basis for commitments, I would point out that it is actually just a planning document, then in reality we are faced with these figures: 2.6 million euros and 15,4 million euros planned in the additional budget. In reality, as I can say as a former Minister for Defence, these figures are not even a percentage of planning error in terms of the entire budget of national defence. Unfortunately, when I discuss such a serious matter, I have to use irony. Now, going to our draft decision, what is our point? As our parliamentary state, we are sending out a clear message that we expect the government to provide a description of the capability needs of this paradigm, which is necessary to protect the Estonian state, so that the strategy of regaining it is not conceivable. That's the starting point. And, of course, the government must supply it with financial figures, with a cost, and Parliament must then make a binding decision on this basis, according to our understanding, either as a separate law or as a separate decision by Parliament, that is our place of debate, that we are irreversibly, regardless of which government is, making decisions that give our defence planners, our military protection organizers and our ability-breeders the assurance that we will do so. I'm pointing out what? I would point out that we are now in a situation where all countries are armed. This means that if we stall, prices will rise, costs will rise, there will be queues. I do not agree with this approach, which is said to be that there is no point in making decisions on the allocation of funds now, because in reality there are, in any case, cycle-based negotiations with arms factories, which are procurement. It is possible to acquire quickly, I refer here, even here, to the Rheinmetal statement, which spoke of hundreds of billions of capabilities, which in the context of possible weapons procurement to Ukraine on behalf of the German state. And I've had conversations with experts who have experience in the acquisition of weapons by the state as well as in the sale of weapons by weapons factories. In the current logic, the context is that Estonia is a parliamentary state. We have had a government that has made hundreds of millions of euro non-binding, politically declarative decisions, what additional capabilities and what additional ammo is deemed necessary. And I think it is appropriate for Parliament to have a comprehensive view of our need for ability, precisely in the perspective that we need to acquire quickly. And then Parliament can make a decision on this. This a few hundred million apologies, I now point out that decisions, as I said, have been made of 2.6 million euros [within the scope], an additional budget of 15,4 million euros is being discussed and a few hundred million euros is being negotiated through the media by our Defence Investment Centre. Estonia is a parliamentary state; in this acute military crisis, we must make a decision on this at parliamentary level, and the prerequisite for this decision is that we change the paradigm of financing and acquiring the capabilities of Estonian military defence. Paradigm must change in principle. The recovery strategy is not acceptable, and this means that we must start building our military planning not through financial capacity, not through the Ministry of Finance planning military defence, but by planning military defence in an unambiguous manner. This is basically the most important patho of our decision. We suggest that the government present this review. I know that there was a scholastic debate in the Committee on National Defence that state secrets and whether we are going to deal with the so-called national defence operational plan in this Chamber. No, absolutely not. According to our understanding, this military defence plan, which we propose that the government should submit to Parliament within one month without stretching, would perhaps be a couple of pages where this capacity plan has been written and where its cost, together with the explanatory memorandum, is set out. I certainly do not consider it reasonable, and I want to reject immediately that we in this Chamber are going to deal with what specific capabilities to obtain: who wants to protect Estonia with a spaceship and who with a cavalry regiment No, I think we have a military defence system, we have a Commander of the Defence Forces to organise the military defence of the Estonian state based on this logic, as it is built up, and I think that maintaining this principle of autonomy is absolutely appropriate. Nor, of course, is it a question of what decisions we make in the defence logic regarding the operational plan. But I recall: the decision made by the legislator on the task of how much money we are able to provide for the development of our capabilities depends on the very simple objective decisions that the Commander of the Defence Forces must make during the war. This means that the territory will remain unprotected from the opponent's missiles and from the air strikes that the territory will not be exposed to, where the front logic will actually take place in the event of the full-blown attack scenario being realised, and so on. The Commander of the Defence Forces is not autonomous in the sense that the framework that the Commander of the Defence Forces can do will be proposed by the legislator, by a government. And then these are the decisions, the cruel decisions that the Commander of the Defence Forces has to make in a war situation, in fact, decisions that result from our actions or omissions. Now, I would also like to emphasise that in our draft decision we have given an indicative relationship that we should also be prepared to double defence spending in the coming years as a ratio to gross domestic product. Once again, this, of course, is not an end in itself, but it is precisely an objective of capacity development. We show by showing that we have a realistic financial limit, as we have previously had in peacetime, this financial limiter we do not have the luxury of thinking about right now. And we're going to make 12 more proposals. Firstly, that the government, in cooperation with other European countries, seek a distinction from the principles of the balance of the European Union's budget, so that expenditure on defence can be treated outside the budgetary balance rule. This has been proposed by the Polish Prime Minister a few weeks ago. I think it's appropriate. It is in our interest that all European countries arm themselves. It's part of our defenses, literally. Certainly, the rules on budgetary balance cannot be a barrier and a constraint to this. We also propose to the government to seek a defence agreement with other countries of the European Union to double the defence capabilities of the European Union, which then means the total defence capabilities of the countries of the European Union. Of course, the European Union does not have a separate army and defence capability. The point is that, while during the Estonian Presidency of the European Union, which was well recalled by Indrek Saar, who spoke earlier here, we reached a political agreement that the countries of the European Union also have the aim of achieving 2%, in reality we could now aim at doubling the defence capabilities of the countries. So that is the content of our proposal. We are not talking here about the proposal, about the political decisions that are necessary to pursue the greater presence of the allies. This is a separate questionnaire and, of course, Parliament can make calls here for other countries and appeals to NATO Member States, but it is clear that this needs to be addressed. It is certainly not our interest to talk about the division's headquarters element, which has been discussed. I think that no one is opposed to the division's headquarters element being located on the territory of Estonia, but if we are talking about a so-called physical presence, then of course the placement of a unit the size of a brigade in Estonia should be our goal to achieve at the NATO Madrid Summit. And I certainly stress that, in the case of all these capabilities, which I have mentioned, even after these developments, we need a large-scale military involvement of the allies in the defence of Estonia, including at sea, because when we are talking about ships of war that are now considerable, we still do not have this capability. For example, two basketts would already cost EUR 500 million. So once again, I would like to stress that our proposal is not to deal with what individual capacities to develop. The content of our proposal is not that we are dealing with an operational plan. The content of our proposal is one and clear: to send a signal from this Chamber that the Estonian Parliament is ready to address the development of the military defence capabilities of the Estonian state on a need-based basis, not on the basis of budgetary possibilities. And we expect the government to have a clear short approach to how much money is needed and what the real agenda will be, in short, on A4, be it on two A4s. In our view, Parliament must then take a binding decision without delay to approve and implement it. Because we are now facing a situation where the government has taken steps, but once again I am repeating the figures: EUR 2.6 million has been allocated from the reserve fund this year, EUR 15,4 million is planned from the additional budget and EUR two hundred million for the acquisition of the ammunition in the situation where we are. Once again, I stress that this has been very right. If more can be given, Ukraine should be given 200 million plus ammo and weapons, as I said, on the basis of a surrender price calculation. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal. I hope that this will be a cross-party proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U492	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U493	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I actually had another question I wanted to ask, but when I listened to your speech here, I had different thoughts. After all, you have carried out various ministerial functions at different times. Every time you come to the remote, you have these things in your back pocket that you've been discussing and talking about in your time. I was amazed today that you came to the hall with a list of what we really need. In my opinion, the Committee on National Defence is precisely the kind of committee in which matters may be spoken, but it is not also publicised in the large Chamber. Money, yes, but definitely not the technique we need. It's the Defence Forces and, let's say, operational and all that. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If we look at the Ukrainian war... Can I ask you that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U494	Ask your question in one sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U495	I'll tell you the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U496	What's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U497	Why, then, do you bring here a completely wrong list or a wrong proposal or a wrong terminology, "Proposal to complete the protection plan"? Only then is what the contents were.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U498	Thank you. Let's move on to the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U499	Thank you, good questioner! If the first question was whether I'm betraying war secrets here, then this list has appeared in Postimees and the source is marked "Defence Department." Secondly, as regards whether this is a completely wrong vision. I think that we must first understand what we are seeking in this Chamber to protect the Estonian state, which is sufficient to protect the Estonian state, and then we will take decisions on this basis. As far as terminology is concerned, when you referred to it here, these terms are not the terms of the current law, but they have been proposed by the initiator himself. And how we imagine the content of these terms being applied is possible for us in this presentation, we had a committee and we have an explanation in this House, too, and I have explained the content of these terms. We expect a description of the power needs of the government, along with the cost needed to protect Estonia, so that we do not realise the win-back scenario during a possible full-scale Russian military invasion. And on this basis, it is possible for Parliament to take a binding decision. That's it. This question, which was also discussed in the Committee on National Defence [of National Defence], I understand that this draft decision does not like, because it does not suggest retreating from this paradigm that, according to budgetary logic, according to the logic of the Ministry of Finance, we are dealing with defence planning, in fact, scholastic problems were made a little more confusing. No, it is not said in this Chamber that Parliament will actually draw up an operational plan. That is what we have not meant in any way, and this paradigm I am, of course, unambiguously rejecting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U500	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U501	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! When the previous draft of the Fatherland was said to be that the Fatherland is trying to break through an open door with its bill, and in fact the government is already [acting], I understand that no one was pressing this bill. The government, led by the Reform Party and the Minister of Defence, has done nothing about it. I understand that the only decisions the government has made, if we recall, were to reduce defence costs in the RES plans. This, fortunately, has been brought back to the same level in this year's budget. But at the moment, the government has decided on 2.6 million euros, if I have understood correctly. A total of 370 million decisions have been made, of which 2.6 million have been realized this year, in the situation where we are. I, of course, support this as one of the initiators of the draft, and I think it is time for us to abandon this 2% issue and switch to capacity-based funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U502	No, I wouldn't say that the government didn't do anything. On the contrary, we are all on the same side of the front line in this fight. The government has made further decisions, and for all these decisions I commend [the government]. I'll tell you what's come true. The decisions for which funds have been specifically allocated or for which binding decisions can be taken, at a ministerial decision, up to 50% of the appropriations in the budget for the following year or directly up to 80% of the appropriations in the budget for the following year can be made by the Minister in accordance with the basic law on the state budget. But my logic is that we must hold a fundamental debate here in Parliament. And I think that the debate on this decision is the focus of [to clarify] what we are prepared for, what we need to ensure that this win-back does not come, and what we really need for it as financial decisions. [Will we] be willing to make that decision, or will we be guided by another paradigm? The question is essentially a paradigmatic choice. This is the most important message of this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U503	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U504	Thank you. Honourable waitress! However, I ask once again for a financial comment. It is as if some kind of decision has been taken in the cabinet, amounting to hundreds of millions, but it is simply political decisions with no legal cover and no real separation. And now we are talking here about 15 million and 2.6 million euros. However, I recall that the government currently in office has been in office for a little over a year and we have survived a single cut, a compulsory budget, where the Defence Forces have also been attacked. True, there's talk of orchestra and other things, but basically, we've been in the direction of death. Today we know that there is also a cut-off plan for the Defence League, at least the representatives of the Defence League's body of elders went to the group and complained that 2% of the budget cut plus wing cuts, which also concerns support services. Please comment on this situation. What has actually been decided, and what is the financial side of the current government defence policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U505	Thank you. As Minister of Defense of the current government to me, it seems to be joking. When it comes to what is the current government defence policy, on the basis of public data, as I said, several hundred million euros of ammunition contracts have been concluded. It is possible that these contracts can also be concluded on a larger financial scale. Its monetary cap, as I said, is 50% at the discretion of the Minister and 80% at the Government's discretion under the basic law of the budget. The government has largely declared what the experts of the Ministry of Finance said, from whom I asked, that they have now taken into account in the budgetary process the forecast that the government intends to put an additional EUR 820 million into national defence in the four-year perspective of the RES. This is the decision room that's been made. Now, the right thing is that these decisions are a political declaration of intent by the government. This is a political declaration of intent by the government. Hypothetically, the government can also change its will. However, I think it is important, in the opinion of the initiators of the draft, for Parliament to make a clear and legally binding decision at Parliament's level on how much the state puts money into additional capabilities, and that it is irreversible, regardless of what the government is, and regardless of the circumstances. This, I think, is very important to put it in place, because the government has done these things gradually. I think it also gives rise to ambiguity, and I am also saying that it is not appropriate for the culture of a parliamentary state if we operate at a size of EUR 800+ million. I think that, in a situation where we are in a parliamentary state, this general perspective of how much further defence we are developing must still be put in place at parliamentary level in the current critical situation. That is the starting point, the content of our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U506	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U507	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, the threat assessment in the security situation is completely naked before all of us, before politicians, before the public, and intelligence only provides details. I, with my own question, would put you in the shoes of the Minister of Finance. In the context of this draft, there is also a proposal that the principle of the balance of the European Union's budget as regards defence expenditure should be abandoned and co-ordinated. Is it known that this discussion is currently ongoing between European countries, or is it really only in its infancy? There is really nothing to talk about, especially when we look at the region in which we live. There are no real choices here. We cannot live on these criteria when we are at war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U508	Thank you. Frankly, I'm not aware of this discussion. The Polish Prime Minister has raised this issue. I do not know what the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia is on this issue and whether and how many other European countries are willing to take a favourable view in this debate, well, so to speak. I think it would be important in this regard to give our government a guideline from our Parliament to stand up for it. And I would like to point out once again that there is a certain ambiguity at the moment regarding the government's involvement in additional defence costs. The Ministry of Finance has taken into account, as I said, the four-year perspectives, the calculations of EUR 820 million under the RES framework. There's nothing in there from midland anti-aircraft. And certainly the question arises that the decision was made, but in fact part of the expenditure has been covered, it is estimated that the planning phase of the budget has been included, some expenditure has not been included. In this case, I think we can't afford such a blur. Clarity is needed, will is needed, and principles are needed on the basis of which we are shaping our protection in the new situation during the war.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U509	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U510	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The decision is undoubtedly a good one, but I also see a weakness here. The question concerns, for example, the submission to the Riigikogu of Estonia's defence plan within one month of the entry into force of this decision. It is clear that we do not all have the relevant permits here, it is classified information, and it is undoubtedly not possible to do so here. That's why we're kind of in a dark room, we don't know if we're gonna find the item we're looking for, and that's why we may not be able to plan these financial charges there either. However, what is positive here is the fact that this defence agreement, which would give us the opportunity to apply as a front country, say, to our partners for appropriate armaments, starting with air protection and so on, as well as with our major supporters, the United States and the United Kingdom. This is where the government should draw the appropriate conclusions. Do you agree with my reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U511	Yeah, I agree. Partly. I mean, I don't agree that this defense plan [is secret]. This word "protection plan" is not present in the current defence planning dogmatics. Under the Protection Plan, the initiators of our draft have in mind a brief description of the new capacity developments that are needed and their cost in order for Parliament to be able to hold a debate and take decisions on this. Of course, it is by its very nature a public document and there is nothing secret about it. Just as we speak of military capabilities, their cost completely openly, and there is nothing out of the ordinary here. This, of course, must, according to the initiators, be based precisely on military advice from the Commander of the Defence Forces. On this basis, it is possible for the government to make its decision, and Parliament will be able to decide on the willingness to allocate this money. Under the protection plan, the initiators of the draft do not refer to the operational plans for defence activities, in fact, which units move to the day n.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U512	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U513	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! It seems to me that yes, indeed, when compared to the debate on the previous draft, which still said that we are breaking through the open door, we are now encouraging the government to open this door. They've been saying that this door could be opened, and maybe we'll open it in the fall, but we're not sure how much we're gonna open. But that's it. My question comes from the part of the European countries. We know that, before the '90s, in most Western European countries, defence costs were 3 to 5% of GDP and have fallen to 1 to 1.5% in the last 30 years. How positively do you see that they still realize that really the cost of protection should at least double that number by two, even better by three?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U514	Thank you. First of all, do we know what the government is planning? We actually know that. Well, the government can also, of course, make further decisions in the event of a change in the situation, but at the moment the government has made its decisions on how much money it intends to spend on its political will, the inspiration it has expressed in the next four years' perspective. As I said, it is EUR 800+ million, let's say, although we are purchasing different kinds of ammo and weapons compared to what we gave to Ukraine, but, let's say, in financial terms, 200+ million we have given Ukraine from this calculation, it is over 600+, it is described by the government. The question is, the opinion of the initiators is that, on the basis of the information currently available to us by military experts, this is not enough. That's the starting point. The question would be that if the government had drawn up this 'capacity-based' rather than 'budget-based' plan, there would also be no need to discuss it in this logic in Parliament in substantive terms. However, in my opinion, it would be necessary to discuss this in Parliament and to make an irreversible decision in a formal sense, as Estonia is a parliamentary state that is so much concerned with financial commitments. And now, as far as the defence capabilities of European countries and the ability to contribute further to protection are concerned, I think it is different for European countries. I think it will also be different during the Ukrainian war or after the Ukrainian war, when peace comes, hopefully with Ukraine's victory. I think it's important that we take advantage of this moment. Because neither in the scenario that is now visible, nor in the realistic scenario, there is such a positive surprise that Putin's regime will fall apart as a result of this war, foresaw in the near future. So Russia will still be wounded, but a predator with nuclear weapons. He's our neighbor next to us who can take irreversible and unpredictable steps, and he's gonna be like this. This is undoubtedly our fundamental starting point as a security policy assessment of this decision. But if we also look at military capabilities, there were 300,000+ troops on the territory of Europe at the end of Gorbachev's time. And I think that the Soviet Union's relations with the United States [were different] at the end of Gorbachev's time and the risk of a possible full-scale military attack was smaller in size than we have in mind today's situation. Today, there were 70,000+ US soldiers on European territory before the war began, and now the number has increased by over 100,000. This is undoubtedly not enough, so Europeans must do more. Of course, we must request a greater presence from the United States. But this request, even if it may not be fully realised, is not a justification for us that we should not put into practice and do so without delay in order to keep our territory in our hands. Because, like I said, time has a price. At the time, the price is in terms of acquiring this military ability, and at the time, the price is also very real for practical commercial reasons, as the time forward, the more expensive the acquisition of these capabilities will become in a visible time frame.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U515	Dear fellow Members, I remind myself, in particular, that according to the procedure for dealing with a draft decision containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic, a member of the Riigikogu is able to ask each of the two speakers one oral question. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U516	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Yes, there is no doubt that action plans for defence, investment plans and action plans need to be renewed. Today in this Chamber, the word 'adequate' has been heard many times, which means that they should be adequate and everything must be done. But, good Urmas, I'm gonna ask you, and I'm gonna get a little wider. In a situation where war travels a thousand kilometres from us, one very important part of our defence and security is also our ability to save within our country. As far as I know, in a place like Kohila's state, for example, there is a capacity for saving. This is one of the fastest developing places in Rapla County, where rescuers go out in Harjumaa as well. And I'd say it has something to do with our security. How does it relate here? Do you think it's normal for the situation to be dealt with by pulling together the capabilities we need?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U517	I say this: the message that has been said in the country, the broad-based national defence plan that has been put together, in fact, undoubtedly this need for capabilities is written down there, but the cost of this need for capabilities is colossal. In reality, we do not have a clear governance model at the moment that would develop this broad-based national defence, and of course there is no corresponding funding plan on this basis either. In our own draft, of course, or not of course, we did not address all the other financial needs or possible planned activities needed in the context of broad state protection. This question specifically about Rapla's rescuers. Indeed, the experience of the war in Ukraine has shown that war [not only] on the front line of the so-called front line in the modern war, we see that in the mechanised war in reality most territories are not formed, but are mobile units. And there's a war in the back. The territory of Ukraine is filled with hundreds of thousands of diversants who have been stationed there long before the war began. When Mikhail and I went there, a divort who had settled in that village four years earlier, had a child, had a wife, and now carried out military duties. And what are their assignments? Burns the forest, destroys the civil infrastructure and undoubtedly causes very extensive damage also in the so-called "background" territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U518	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U519	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Looking at the war in Ukraine, it is clear that the anti-aircraft system is particularly important to protect its country. Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Centre Party Group, has said that mid-earth anti-aircraft systems should also be included in the additional defence package. At the same time, General Vello Loemaa thinks that if you wanted to protect the country, there should be at least three or four such batteries. We know that the cost of a single battery is somewhere around EUR 300.400 million. Can you tell me whether, when talking about national defence funds in the government, there has also been talk about finding a billion and a half euros somewhere to actually protect the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U520	Thank you. Well, I can rely on the information that the government has provided through public sources about its activities to the extent of additional defence expenditure. Part of it is planned for the so-called RES by the Ministry of Finance. Midland anti-aircraft isn't planned in. The extent to which it is planned and when it is planned, at least I have no information about it. I think that the need, in this case, for really full-scale midland anti-aircraft or air defence systems, which I have noted here, on the basis of this expertise, really, both anti-aircraft and missile defence, is a decision where one thing is the financial cost, but the other is, in fact, brutally speaking, the cost of this alternative, in practice not doing this cost. What this means when this threat scenario is realised is that we have seen how central the attack on civilian objects is the destruction of cities by Russian aircraft and missiles. And that is a fact that is a political choice. This is a political choice that will be made by the government, which I believe Parliament must also make and discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U521	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Thank you very much. I now request Mati Raidma, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U522	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the proceedings in the National Defence Committee. The Riigikogu Isamaa Group submitted a draft on 15 March of this year. The Bureau of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 March, but no amendments were tabled to the draft. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the first reading at its meetings on 4 and 5 April this year. Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Isamaa Group, took part in the meeting on 4 April. Lt-Gen Martin Herem, Head of the Defence Forces, and Kristjan Mäe, Head of the NATO and European Union Department of the Ministry of Defence, were invited to the meeting of the Commission as experts. Urmas Reinsalu presented the idea and content of the draft, and then Lieutenant General Herem presented the Commission with regard to defence activities. In so doing, the Commander of the Defence Forces explained that the State's defence action plan relates both to national defence funding and the resulting capacity developments as well as to NATO-Allies' plans and contributions. The detailed information provided by General Herem was for internal use and was not included or reflected in the minutes in accordance with § 39 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Kristjan Mäe commented on paragraph 3 of the draft, which relates to the principles of budgetary balance in the European Union, that the Government of the Republic has already adopted a position to support a similar distinction, but not to the extent of all national defence expenditure, but in such a way as to exempt defence investments from compliance with the rules on budgetary balance. As regards the provisions of point 4 of the draft act concerning the conclusion of a European defence agreement, the Mäe explained that it is important to distinguish whether we are talking about the defence capabilities of the European Union or the Member States of the European Union. The defence ambitions of the European Union for the coming years have just been agreed between the Member States and endorsed by the EU Council on 21 March in a document called the Strategic Security and Defence compass. The Estonian and Eastern European countries have supported the principle that all European countries spend at least 2% of their GDP on national defence, but unfortunately not all Member States still do so. Member of the Commission Heiki Hepner stated that the fourth point of the draft is for the purpose of doubling defence capabilities to the countries of the European Union, not the European Union. The debate on the draft decision continued at the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 5 April this year, where the author was represented by Mr Heiki Hepner, Member of the Commission. On 16 March this year, Aivar Engel, the Head of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Commission, delivered an opinion on the draft, who stated, inter alia, that paragraphs 1 and 2 set out the terms relating to the national defence action plan (the draft term "Estonian Defence Plan'), which is based on § 7 (2) to (5) of the National Defence Act. This is a military strategic document containing secret state secrets, which is not included in the strategic development documents referred to in §7 (1) and (11) of the National Defence Act, §19 (1) (3) and §20 (1) and (2) of the State Budget Act, which are submitted to the Riigikogu for approval or discussion, or to the National Defence Committee for a position. In addition, § 7 (11) of the National Defence Act states that the obligation laid down in § 20 (2) of the National Budget Act to submit it to the Riigikogu for discussion is not applicable to the development plan in the field of national defence, which is essentially a national defence development plan. Before submitting a development plan or a draft amending it to the Government of the Republic for approval, the Prime Minister listens to the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. However, the strategic plan for the defence activities of the State is an even lower-ranking military document, which is not a strategic development document. The state defence action plan is linked to the NATO defence action plan for Estonia. They are separate documents, but they are linked to each other and are presumably implemented together. This was supported by all but one of the members of the Commission. The same was true of the definition of "Estonia's defence plan" in the draft text versus the definition of "state defence plan" in the current law. Members of the Commission considered that they were probably of the same meaning. Here are some of the doubts that we had in the discussions at the National Defence Committee. The title of the draft is "Modernisation of the Estonian military defence plan" and it follows that this plan is currently in place, which is wanted to be completed. Point 1 of the draft law requires the government to submit an action plan to supplement Estonia's defence plan within one month. Point 2 requires an improved protection plan within one month, the end result of which, in turn, the requirement for an action plan within the same timeframe becomes meaningless. It was also noted that since the defence plan is secret, it is not known whether or not the defence plan is sufficient. Although the initiators of the draft have used the term "military defence plan" in the draft, which is understood as a national defence action plan in the field, the Commission had the impression that the initiators of the draft had rather as a complement to the defence plans, that it meant supplementing the national defence development plan. Point 2 aims to double national defence spending. The question arose: if today there is a real percentage of 2.5, is the target 5%. As far as the European Union is concerned, the fourth point is also the proposal to double the European Union's defence capabilities, which seems to be an unrealistic objective, as the European Union's strategic compass does not include such ambition, and European countries have not even been able to fulfil the commitment made at the NATO summit in 2014 to allocate 2% of GDP to national defence. Under parliamentary supervision, the National Defence Committee wishes to review the National Defence Development Plan in an up-to-date form, as several development jumps have taken place in the meantime thanks to additional funding. The Commission proposed to invite a representative of the executive in this field, the Minister of Defence, to the National Defence Committee to get an overview of the improved national defence development plan. Such activities are directly part of the tasks of the National Defence Committee and there is no need to ask the Government of the Republic for such information through the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. Next was the draft debate as a decision of the Riigikogu on the majority necessary for adoption. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu, by its decision of 15 February 2022, instructed the Commission that when dealing with a draft decision of the Riigikogu containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic, it is necessary to ask the Government in a letter whether the adoption of the bill would lead to an amendment of the law. At the same time, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu must be asked to give an opinion on whether the draft requires 51 votes for adoption or whether a majority of votes in favour is sufficient. From the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu on 1 April and from the opinion of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Committee of 16 March this year, it follows that the draft under discussion requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. From the point of view of the Minister of Defence, pursuant to the mandate of the Government of the Republic, on 11 April this year, it is assumed that it is not necessary to amend the laws in force when adopting the draft under discussion. However, the agreement on defence cooperation under point 4 of the draft must be ratified by law in the Riigikogu. Paragraph 4 of the draft provides for the conclusion of an agreement on defence cooperation, which is directly related to § 121 (4) of the Constitution, which states that the Riigikogu will ratify the treaties of the Republic of Estonia with which the Republic of Estonia will assume military or material obligations. In addition, § 103 (2) of the Constitution provides the Riigikogu with the right to appeal to the Government of the Republic on the basis of a decision taken by a majority of its component members [proposal] to initiate a desirable draft, which would be the agreement on defence cooperation arising from section 554 (4) of the draft law on ratification. The three opinions referred to above are publicly available in electronic form on the draft under discussion. To sum it up. The plan of the defence activities of the state is the same as that of the Estonian defence plan, which is secret and is not subject to discussion in the Riigikogu on the basis of the National Defence Act and the State Budget Act and is not submitted to the National Defence Committee to give a position. The Riigikogu approves the foundations of Estonia's security policy pursuant to § 11 (1) of the State Budget Act and, as I mentioned in my report, the National Defence Committee gives its position to the secret national defence development plan pursuant to the National Defence Act. Point 4 of the draft under discussion results from the submission of the draft ratification law, which is why the draft under discussion requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Following the above, the National Defence Commission took the following decisions on the draft at its meeting on 5 April this year. Not to support the bill. There were 8 members of the Commission in favour of this, against 1 in favour of Heiki Hepner. The consensus decisions of the committee were to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included on the Riigikogu's agenda for the first reading of this year, to appoint a speaker as rapporteur and that the draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U523	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U524	Yeah. It's strange, Mati, that your thinking in the committee got so scholastic. We have introduced a concept that does not exist in the planning structure of the defence documents and it is therefore strange that it is attributed to another document [meaning]. I described what we meant by this plan, a brief overview of the capacity needs and its cost. But my question is: the National Defence Committee dealt with terminology a lot, but what came out of the committee's discussion? How much is needed in order to prevent this defeat [strategy] from being realised, military abilities, and how much does it cost? Did the National Defence Committee not deal with the content of this draft but deal with procedural, terminological problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U525	Thank you very much. I presented a debate in the Commission. Here today, good Urmas, you opened up this subject like a new angle and based on the idea of this two-page new document. There is nothing to do here, of course, that if the title says 'plans to improve', then we will return to what was said in the Commission, then that plan will be there. From what I said today, I understand you'd rather talk about the National Defence Development Plan. So this format... [[Urmas Reinsalu is speaking between the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U526	Mati Raidma, please! You have your word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U527	Thank you. This document is called the "Ten-year National Defence Development Plan" and it contains the necessary capacity development and funds in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U528	Heiki Hepner, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U529	Good chairman of the sitting! I have this procedural question for you: how should it be done if the protocol that is being presented does not, however, convey everything that was being discussed in the Commission? Well, obviously, I spoke several times in the Commission the same thing as Urmas Reinsalugi explained that the National Defence Action Plan, which is prescribed by law, or the National Defence Development Plan, that we do not mean it. This was repeatedly said in the Commission. It also became open to the idea that we are discussing general issues here. Parliament is the place [to discuss it]. How should this be complemented now in the course of this debate? What do you propose?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U530	Well, I'm sure you gave your explanation on the procedural question, and the Bureau doesn't really supplement the minutes of the permanent committees. It is still the responsibility of the Commission. Kalle Grünthal, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U531	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On the fourth point, you referred to the fact that the Government of the Republic cannot conclude a defence agreement in cooperation with other countries of the European Union, as this is the competence of the Riigikogu. I guess it was like that, huh? That's the deal. But I find it a little incomprehensible that, in some circumstances, the Government of the Republic is very simply entering into all kinds of agreements. Here we take the agreement between the Government of the Republic and the WHO on the digital health care system is working, concluded. Take, for example, the way we negotiate with the WHO in the fight against a pandemic, even 17 members of the European Union's Affairs Commission are sufficient for this matter to be discussed. It's the same with a green turn. This is where all the contracts are made, no problem at all. Therefore, in certain cases, the government enters into international agreements without the consent of the Riigikogu, but on the security issue it does not want to do so in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U532	Thank you. I will return to my report and repeat. § 121 (4) of the Constitution: the Riigikogu ratifies the treaties of the Republic of Estonia, whereby the Republic of Estonia assumes military obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U533	A procedural question, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U534	I would now like to ask for the position of the President of the sitting. In other words, Mati referred to how a representative of the government described the fact that it was not possible to apply for a doubling of protection [expenditure], as the European countries have already agreed on it in a so-called "defence compass." And now it turns out that the wording of our defence agreement, in order to agree with greater ambition, cannot be discussed, because it requires a majority in composition, because it would require a parliamentary mandate. And so that it cannot be adopted by the Estonian Parliament now, because it goes against this compass, which the Estonian Parliament has not dealt with in any way. It is possible that an overview was heard in the Committee on National Defence or a mandate was given in the Committee on European Affairs. How does the President interpret these different approaches? After all, the functional idea is the same common understanding of countries in Europe as much [to contribute] to their defence capabilities in the near future. How does the protection agreement described in our draft decision differ from the compass referred to by the good Commission rapporteur?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U535	Thank you, good questioner! But such questions are not really answered by the manager. It is not the competence of the President to give, it is the role of the commission, also in this compass. A procedural question, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U536	Thank you! I asked a question about this, which is why in some cases the Government of the Republic, without blinking, will enter into international agreements without the consent of the Riigikogu, but when there are current security issues that are important for our survival, they do not want to do so. I asked why the possibility of crossing the Riigikogu is not applied to security. I am still waiting, Mr President, for an answer now, because you did not answer my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U537	Thank you, Mr Grünthal. I don't consider it a procedural question. I've considered it, and I don't consider it a procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U538	Good manager! Dear waitress, I don't know anything about the National Defence Commission compass. But I heard my esteemed colleague from the Reform Party say that there is no double the cost of national defence. My question is now that the German Minister of Defence recently said that he could not give these Ukrainians, that he himself could use it. Not much if I quote his opinion. There is no border with Russia in Germany. Do you think we have been too kind in Estonia to help Ukraine with weapons?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U539	Thank you very much. Now we're going deep and far away from this bill. We did not address this at this Commission meeting. Certainly these are important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U540	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U541	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! Indeed, I was both a Member of the Commission in the Commission and I represented the author of the draft. And in this respect, I repeat, it was repeatedly explained what was the author's idea for this particular plan. But my question is what we really discussed with the defense experts. How much concrete capacity is needed today to resist or bring our defence capabilities to such a level that we do not have to implement the so-called'return strategy'? Perhaps you could comment on that in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U542	Thank you. I will answer the first part of the question, because the title is about supplementing the protection plan, i.e. something that is already there today, as I understand your explanations on two pages, it is not, and that is why this understanding did not arise in the Commission. As regards the planning of needs now, I certainly hope that all members of the National Defence Commission will be convinced of the professionalism of the Ministry of Defence and the National Defence Planners of the Defence Forces. And it will be written there, not in political debates. Our task, indeed, is to support it, and our contributions to this support will be in strategic documents when we talk about the minimum level of defence contribution, or percentage of GDP, and we can talk about it in the state budget law that we decide, and so on. Maybe all the places we can be involved with, but in planning military defenses, I'd leave this process to the pros.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U543	Ülle Rajasalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U544	Thank you. Honourable performer! Indeed, when we had the National Defence Committee, it was quite different in the Commission. Mr Reinsalu's presentation today revealed that the content would be external financing for defence costs. This is a completely different bill. I think I got it right. But there was no mention of strategic planning for a win-back in this committee. And on our questions, Mr Hepner often owed an answer. That is why it was specifically rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U545	Thank you. I can say that despite the fact that we may have misunderstood each other, this debate was meaningful and it was still addressed quite thoroughly. It is not about the name of the document, it is about where and how we can contribute. It was also said that the foundations of security policy as a basic document will come to the Riigikogu this year. By law and logic, it must go through here at least once every four years, i.e. every parliamentary term. This is the place. The National Defence Development Plan, which contains capabilities and these contributions, is also in addition to today's development. And it turned out to be with the representatives of the Ministry that this would also come in a revised form of the National Defence Commission. It is not cut into a wall for ten years, it is completed every year. The challenges we have today are reflected there. In addition, the basic strategic documents contain at least 2% [for defence expenditure]. On this basis, and in view of the escalation of the situation in today's world, the government has taken decisions to provide additional funding. As I said, this percentage is significantly higher, but it is not a violation of principles. Maybe 2% is the floor. Today, this is the issue and there seems to be a broad enough consensus in the Committee on National Defence that this level of floor needs to be raised, because if we are to invest heavily in capacity development, we must have a guarantee that they will work in the long term. And that is not a quick question, but a fundamental question. It'll be on our tables in the summer. It comes with the state budget and comes with the foundations of security policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U546	Heiki Hepner, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U547	Thank you, good Chairman. I have a question for you. If a Member of the Commission is at a meeting of the Commission and he does not understand what is going on there, and there is a total fog in this Chamber, what should be done about it? If he says that I repeatedly couldn't answer the questions, would it be possible for him to ask the questions I couldn't answer right now? Or how should he act when he is really blurring clearly makes it look like he wasn't at the Commission meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U548	Thank you. It is not possible for you here to start asking and answering each other; this is not allowed by the rules of procedure and home. What would be possible? Amendments to the rules of procedure and home arrangements are possible. That's all I can say. Heiki Hepner, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U549	One more suggestion, maybe here. We have other members on the Commission. Perhaps our ladies and gentlemen who were there could mark the questions that have not been answered in the context of this question, or perhaps a good waitress, listening to this debate, will be able to highlight those questions that I did not respond clearly when I could not answer anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U550	Thank you. Well, there's one more chance, of course. I began to think that, since we are at first reading, the representatives of the group in the negotiations can speak out and talk about their perceptions of this draft and its proceedings. And I don't know what Mr. Alar Laneman is asking, maybe he's asking for exactly what you asked for. So let's listen, let's see. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U551	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I must admit, however, that there were questions, and I think there were quite good answers from Mr Hepner. The second story was that these answers may not always have been expected, but the discussion was. I would also like to thank Mati for actually explaining and discussing more here than your duty would have been. Thank you so much for that! It's in the interest of the matter. But now, on this basis, I would ask. Trusting professionals is a good thing. But we now have a situation where we have trusted professionals and a ten-year plan receives a second change within three months. What if a member of the Riigikogu still feels that there is a real need to intervene in the existing process? We're in the middle of a situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U552	Thank you very much. After all, we have also done so in the Committee on National Defence, where we have produced letters to the Government of the Republic with a clear indication of the problems, on the one hand. On the other hand, this is one of the functions of parliamentary control that the Committee on National Defence must implement. So, yes, faster steps, although we briefly touched on it at this committee meeting. But we expect the Minister of Defence as soon as possible to have an overview of this modernised form of the National Defence Development Plan, which would indeed correspond to today's security environment, and also to get a picture of this potential third support package, which has been discussed a great deal. However, in real processes it was under the same Commission's [session] but under another item on the agenda. We were familiar with the concrete plan of the Defence Investment Centre, which gave us confidence that the work is actually on all fronts, including planning and budgeting for mid-earth air control capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U553	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Leo Kunnas, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U554	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U555	Yeah, let's do this right now. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U556	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the national defence plan cannot bring us to the big hall because it is a secret document. And we cannot deal with the composition of war, which is an even more important and secret thing. It makes sense to change that when things are implemented, perhaps the same defense plan will change if we are those units that we want to do, really did. Now, for a moment, I am quoting this draft, which obviously the initiators were essentially trying to achieve, and which I myself proposed in the Commission, how to solve the Gordion node that we came into here. "... the need to accelerate the implementation of the capabilities developments outlined in the National Defence Development Plan and to make it important to achieve additional capabilities developments that were excluded from the National Defence Development Plan in relation to the financial planning framework. " It can be concluded that the initiators requested this in order to complement the existing national defence development plan. As we know, we currently have a development plan for 2022 to 2031. With regard to the war, we have a basic opportunity to make a new extraordinary national defence development plan, and we can, in principle, from here, also oblige the government to do so if we want to do so. But it's clear that it won't be done in one month. The minimum period during which the National Defence Development Plan could be adequately improved is about six months, i.e. in parallel with the same RES process. What's supposed to go into that plan first? That should be the three strengthening packages that the government has decided on in principle. So the first package, 380 million of which 40 goes to broad-based national defence, the second package, 562 million of which 86 goes to broad-based [state defence], which makes a total of 942 million, for which there are decisions and we will probably see them both in the supplementary budget and in the RES. The financial volume and content of the third package are still open. It has been decided that midland anti-aircraft will go there and that it will be about 350 million. Of course, all these decisions should find writing and expression in the 10-year development plan, its clarifications and improvements. I will take this opportunity to make some proposals on this third package, which are, in fact, still missing and which should also go there. The first question is that if we have a major increase in the military military force, we need more leadership and communication capability. These aspects should now be reviewed by the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence as to whether they have been adequately reflected there. So it's communication and guidance. Of course, situational awareness, perhaps fire control, must be modernised and renewed in the light of the Ukrainian war, because we must have a cannon, a mobile cannon or a normal cannon, with every basic fire system, separate and concentrated. The fire control system needs to be upgraded. And, of course, in this context, the need for drones with reconnaissance drones and battle drone capabilities should be reviewed. This concerns governance and situational awareness, which needs to be substantially improved. Then what's more? Now that the Ministry of Defence is taking over the vessels of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the PBGB, and the maritime surveillance system, in this connection, the maritime surveillance system is going to be renewed, the Pikker needs to be replaced and there will be other costs. This should also be reflected. Now, will this third package be the last? Probably not. What we're missing is an armored maneuver, or tanks. And we're missing the nearest beach defense, maybe up to 30 kilometers. They're missing. If we want to get more ammo, one battle day, one TOS is 100 million here and there, each TOS will pay that amount if you put it there. Yes, all of this should now be considered in the light of this third package, and it is clear that this third package, too, will obviously not be the last. The principle pursued by the initiators is, in itself, right here, and we support this principle, that new capacity developments are needed, and now it is necessary to do things that, for financial or other reasons, have not been able to do for ten to fifteen years. These have to be done in three or four years, so let's start with this year's additional budget and go on with the RES 2023/2026 and then with the addition of the 10-year development plan and the addition of the four-year development plan. That's how we can get this done. Can we from this great hall, the Riigikogu, turn to the government to oblige them to do so? In principle, we can do this, but if this development plan is further specified and improved, it will certainly not come to the big hall. This is coming from the National Defence Commission, where we will evaluate it. We hope, of course, to see these details of the development plan together with the RES and with all the decisions that are now being taken. I would conclude that yes, it has not been very successful in legal and formal terms. These mistakes may have been avoided if we had worked together more from the start. I proposed in the Commission solutions for how to proceed with this, so that we can get the contents of what the initiators asked for, so to speak, properly formulated. However, since the text could no longer be amended and the Commission was not ready to put together any completely new text as a Commission at the time, it remained that way. This substantial desire and will to make new capacity developments and now to complement the development plan, we will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U557	Thank you. I'm asking a procedural question now, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U558	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a request for you because the agenda has stretched today...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U559	Really?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U560	Yeah. Please give a preliminary warning and check that the rapporteur on the next item is able to come to Parliament. Last week, ministers were no longer able to come to Parliament and Minister Sutt did not come due to the lingering of the agenda, and the discussion on the item proved impossible. Please be good and check and inform that we know that there will be a debate on this item. And in case the Minister is really unable to come, we know that with the following points we can come earlier so that the rapporteurs for the following points are ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U561	Thank you. I would like to thank you for this preliminary warning, and I am sure to ask as soon as possible for this information to be checked whether the waitress on the next item can come to the Riigikogu. But I cannot do it myself at the moment, because I am chairing the sitting and I am very happy to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa Group, Heiki Hepner. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U562	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The security situation in Europe has changed dramatically since 24 February, when Russia invaded Ukraine on a large scale. This is not only the war in Ukraine, it is also our war, and it will create a completely new security situation for us. Estonia is a member of NATO, but our national defence still begins primarily with us, including the strategy papers, which we can hold a public debate in this Chamber. This is a starting point, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, different restrictions on access to security documents and defence documents are clearly imposed. What is protected by state secrets must remain in the premises where it is dealt with. In all the political groups of the Riigikogu there are people who have permission to have access to state secrets, and we can hold the necessary debates and debates there too. But not everyone is protected by state secrets. When we think about the development strategy "Estonia 2035," the state budget strategy or the state budget, which are actually very important documents in terms of national defence, these are the places that we can hold a public debate on. But first of all, we need to find out whether we are accepting this strategy, which says that Estonia is going to win back, recapture the conquered areas, or whether we are going to set a goal for our national defence that we are not giving up the country, that we are not only able to intimidate, but also to face up right now, and that our counterstep at the border of the country is so strong that we do not have to worry about how we are going to get the conquered areas back. The Government of the Republic has declared certain plans and this has been positive, but there are still some problems that arise here. Firstly, the planned level of defence investments is insufficient. It has been said that it could be less than 1 billion, with medium-range anti-aircraft maybe up to 1.3 billion. But it is far short of sufficient capacity, and this has also been confirmed to us by our very competent national defence experts, the Estonian state, I mean. We need a clear parliamentary debate on this. And second of all, the plans that the government has decided are still largely in the air. They are neither in the state budget nor in the RES. Let's hope someday the extra budget gets in front of us, and we'll get some clarity. Today we know that the decision to acquire medium-range anti-aircraft has been postponed. The justification is that perhaps we can fill this gap with NATO partners, and if we cannot, we will start by acquiring it ourselves, we will prepare it. It is clear from the day that mid-range anti-aircraft must be acquired by us and partners must talk about long-range anti-aircraft. Seeing what has happened in Ukraine, it should be clear to everyone that we need comprehensive air protection, not holes like Swiss cheese. In the near future, Estonia will need at least 2.5 billion defence investments. And I stress that this has been confirmed by our high-level national defence experts. Recently, we discussed the Estonian 2035 strategy in this Chamber, in which our defence expenditure is planned to be 2% of GDP. Well, he's going to rise, and he's going to be a little higher now, and maybe in some years, we'll get close to 3%. In fact, in today's security situation, such defence planning is unacceptable. 3% should be an absolute base, but actually, when we think about the needs that we are facing, 4% is what should be the volume of our defence costs in the coming years. Regrettably, we have taken the position that we continue to live in peacetime conditions and have plenty of time to decide, and there is no rush.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U563	Good waitress, I'm interrupting you for a moment because I'm about to hand over the chair and owe you one procedural question [answer]. I can't answer that later. Mr. Seeder, I was in contact with the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Andres Sut. His answer is that he has long been in the Riigikogu, and not only does he come here too. So this problem is broken. I'm so sorry, good waitress, now I'm sure you'll have half a minute. But I had to take care of it, otherwise it would have been between earth and heaven.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U564	All right. Excellent news, we can also move forward with the next issue. But indeed, we have unfortunately taken the position that we have plenty of time and enough, but in today's security situation we do not have time. When the debate in this Chamber yesterday asked about the situation in helping Ukraine to Slava Ukrainian CEO Johanna-Maria Lehtme what we can do, one of the answers was that don't hesitate, we don't have time. Remember that very emotional moment, I believe, everyone. It was a very emotional moment. We do not really have time to help Estonia, nor do we have a defence capability that we need to deal with very quickly, at an early pace. The price of each day of delay is not only an increase in security risks for our defence, but also an increase in budgetary costs. The prices of weapons and ammunition increase in days, not months or years. The decisions we have made today will cost us millions or tens of millions of euros more tomorrow. We get setbacks in the economy. [Because we are] a neighbour of Russia, investors want maximum certainty that their investments will not be subject to the destruction of the Russian army. Only a sufficiently strong national defence can dispel these justified fears. In strengthening national defence, we need to cooperate not only with NATO, but also with partner countries in the European Union. A distinction must be made so that national defence expenditure can be treated outside the rules on budgetary balance. All these steps are possible when there is someone who is a locomotive who takes this information, this desire to our partners. Estonia has been one of the locomotives in NATO and the European Union in increasing its defence capacity as a ratio to GDP. That is why we must stay and we must work to ensure that our friends double their defence costs. During the Cold War, they were 3 to 5%, but the deceptive image of Russia has led to a fall to a percentage or one and a half over the last 30 years. And so it has happened that Germany says that it would help Ukraine with weapons, but it doesn't have enough of its own. We need to convince our partners to significantly increase their defence investments. It's part of our security, and no one will do it for us. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, of course, to support this draft. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U565	Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U566	Unfortunately, the previous President of the sitting took that time off.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U567	True, that was 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U568	I remember!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U569	No, I've always remembered that. I was just wondering if you had one.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U570	Yeah, I remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U571	Very good! But now there's 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U572	Yeah, well, we'll be fine. It is good that the President of the sitting was also reminded when he was reminded. But, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen! The defense is primarily in our own hands. No one else is really going to do this, and there is no time to fool around and hope that it will be done on someone else's account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U573	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U574	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I advise you not to submit a draft every day in Isamaa, then there will be some high-quality text suddenly and not such a fault as this. This is where the Commission, and indeed Leo Kunnas, gave sufficient attention to this cull. And it was not the representative of the Reform Party, although it was claimed here, it was the representative of the National Defence Committee, who actually destroyed it, that there is no understanding of what document is being amended and how such a secret matter can be discussed here, as broadly [to be said]. Documents, deadlines, definitions and scales were carried out. National defence is certainly no bigger than the state itself. And Estonia must not brag about the topic "Two Fights with Russia." It's not going to do us any good. In an ironic way, of course, the representative of the Fatherland here also said that we have some investment problem if we do not defend it, but in the case of investments [in the case of] that deny it, even in tourism we already have a problem, it is thought that there is some noise going on here that we are in the same situation as Ukraine. And these are the facts of real life. Let's not get up here. We're not getting ready for a fight. We are at war in Ukraine, and our contribution has been hundreds of millions to blow up Russian tanks there. It's the fastest defense in the world right now. And that's exactly what gives us time. If someone says we don't have time, it is precisely time we have plans to make, because the Russians will not be able to attack us effectively in the coming years, that is the actual [opinion] of national defence experts. But, of course, we need to increase the stakes; this has already taken place in January. The government has commendably allocated hundreds of millions of them mainly to ammunition, but also to internal security and other equipment, and these decisions are, as they say, still in the pipeline. He'll be here. But it says here we're going to debate these secret things here. It's not a debate when we rip a shirt and say a billion, no, two is even better, twice, no, triple, not at least 5%. It's not a debate. It is not a debate when we talk about the security situation, about the change in the situation, and again, we make rubbers in our breasts. It's nothing. [The situation] has changed, of course it has, and has also changed the attitude of the whole of Europe and the whole of the West towards security and has greatly increased the stakes, Estonia's contribution has also increased. But the functioning of society will be undermined if we show national defence as the only idea in the country. I have already referred to economic reasons because it was done by one of the drafters. But it also undermines the decision-making mechanism, which is one of the fundamental foundations of liberal democracy, that everyone has a role to play, and not every party here builds up arms or national defence, offers overpowers, creates panic. The strength of our society lies in complete development. When we talk about defence, there are no borders in this Chamber when we talk about education, it is, of course, said that money must not be saved, if there is to be health, then, of course, it is underfunded. But that's not how you build a country. And it's pretty scary to hear that story about how it's all about some budget balance. Darlings, we have a tenth of our tax revenues long overdue, and it deepened with our three crises in a row, not a reduction. It's a chronic problem. Out of some budgetary balance, you don't have to attribute it to anyone. However, I am quoting here to the Bank of Estonia, who has made the truth very clear that has long been known recently... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U575	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U576	... that public financial sustainability is a security issue. Education is the same, health is the same. It's not just guns. If we blow up the country with some kind of hysteria, scare away all the cautious people and investors, we'll damage the country's development. Fortunately, we do not need to tear ourselves apart, we have the concept of collective defence, we have allies coming to NATO, Finland, Sweden, we can close the Baltic Sea soon if we fantasize a little. Estonia's security situation is changing enormously. This includes a huge change in the capacity planning situation, which also means anti-aircraft, i.e. weapons systems, i.e. cooperation. The anti-aircraft really has to be a fetish for someone here, with many fetishes going on systemically, in three stages. However, Estonia's priority now is the nearest anti-aircraft and anti-tank defence, of course also anti-ship defence, which has all worked very effectively. But yes, let's not jump from stone to stone, consider that security means first this state itself, the state's ability to evolve. That's when it's brave to be when the whole is standing together, and then it makes sense to protect him. Otherwise, there's no point. We don't want to make some kind of barracks here, and we don't have any need for it. Today, collective defence is really working, and Estonia has really grown and already increased its defence capabilities. Let's end this party oversupply and illiterate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U577	I don't see any more calls. A final vote of 554 has been proposed by the lead committee. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to supplement Estonia's military defence plan" (554). Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U578	With the result of 28 and 31, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U579	The tenth item is the presentation by the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology of the implementation of the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." Mr Andres Suti, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, would like to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U580	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! We are building an Estonia that matters to the world. We're on our way to the next peaks. Before going to the development strategy "Estonia 2035," let me go back in time to the early 90s. We had just become an independent country. We had fought for freedom to shape our own future just as we dared to imagine it and set ambitions. It was a time of anxiety and uncertainty, both at national level, in our immediate neighbourhood and in the wider world. Anxiety and uncertainty [exemplify] today: the health crisis, the energy crisis and Russia's aggression against Ukraine, and the changing geopolitical lines of power frame the implementation of the "Estonia 2035" strategy, and have accelerated the need for progress. In the nineties, together, we managed to overcome the crises at the time and build an outstanding success story in Estonia, which speaks to the wider world. We can do this by implementing the Estonian 2035 strategy today. Good Riigikogu! The "Estonia 2035" strategy sets one goal: the Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. In addition, the second strategic objective related to my area of government is that Estonia's government is reliable, human-centred and innovative. To implement these goals, there are two central development plans that direct the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The first is the R &amp; D &amp; I &amp; entrepreneurship development plan 2021 to 2035 or TAIE, the second is the development plan for the digital society of Estonia 2030, which sets out a vision, an action plan how to develop Estonia as an economy, state and society through digital technology over the next decade. Estonian labour productivity has reached 84% of the European average in the last 30 years, which is a very good level. Our starting point is about one sixth below the European Union average. In order to reach the R&D&I target, labour productivity must increase by more than a quarter. We have rightly set our ambition high: 110% of the European Union average, above the current level of Finland and Germany. This is a challenge for both the government and the private sector. To achieve this level, one of the keys is to keep the state's R &amp; D costs at least 1%, which we do. The level of private R &amp; D expenditure is currently just below 1% of GDP, i.e. we need a double increase in private R &amp; D. I am optimistic because we have companies in every county of Estonia that are innovative and operate in very different fields. And there is a strong interest in cooperation between companies and universities. At the same time, we cannot overlook the fact that the Estonian population is ageing and by 2035 our population is projected to shrink to 1.2 million people. Over the next five years, about 31000 people in the age group 20 to 64 will be reduced. A recent report by the Riigikogu Monitoring Centre stated that our tax system today will no longer withstand demographic trends, which is why we should start introducing new taxes. However, a much better solution than tax increases is to increase the growth potential of the economy than it is today. Thus, the state's revenue base is growing and there is no need for an increase in the tax burden. Instead of greater redistribution, we create much more value by encouraging innovation and the creation of high-paid jobs. This is where my main challenge, as the Estonian economy and minister, is to achieve a strong innovative and responsible growth of the Estonian economy despite the demographic situation. Simply put, how can we make the economy flourish so that our welfare system does not collapse? In the Ministry, we have framed the actions to address this challenge between the three strategic directions. These include a digital turn, a green turn and an innovation turn. The fourth and horizontal axis is the business environment. I will now open these four issues a little bit longer. The innovation revolution involves the transition to a new smart and research-intensive economic model, with innovative and environmentally friendly products-services created by top-level managers and employees. In other words, Estonia focuses on high value added quality, not volume. Our competitive advantage is not in cheap mass production, but in the provision of high quality products and services, often as tailor-made solutions and short delivery times. In order to make an innovation turn, we have focused on four lines of action. Firstly, to create, develop and market new innovative products, we bring together Estonian universities, research institutions and companies. This is what we do with applied research and other programmes. We have already invested EUR 41 million and another 53 million will be added in the next four years. Secondly, Estonian start-ups contributed nearly one billion euros last year. In the first three and a half months of this year, the sector has involved almost the same amount. In order for our technology-intensive start-ups to be able to start and get started in Estonia, we will increase the availability of venture capital through new investment funds and accelerators. Through SmartCap, we invest 100 million euros in developing the ecosystem and modern technology-intensive industries of research-intensive start-ups, plus at least the same amount of private investment. Thirdly, in order for private investment in R &amp; D to increase to 2%, we will create new measures based on structural resources and public budgets. We also set the objective of investing 2% in R &amp; D for public undertakings in line with the owner's expectations. Fourthly, in order to ensure that we are not only consumers of new technologies, but also their creators, we support the participation of Estonian companies in the European Union's crucial value chain-based cooperation projects. A good example is the hydrogen sector, where Estonian companies contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in strategic sectors and as partners they contribute to the development of the European Union's strategic value chains. Good Riigikogu! Next, it is appropriate to look deeper into another subject: the green turn. Addressing climate issues is not an option; it is a basic requirement. Success requires radical innovation at different levels of society. For companies, this requires not only the introduction of novel technologies, but a review of the entire business model, measurement and reduction of the environmental footprint. First, however, we need to see the sheave as an opportunity, not a cost. Climate warming, supply chain crises and consumer preferences have irreversibly changed the expectations and preferences of businesses and consumers alike. Swimming upstream is like fighting windmills. For example, the financial sector is paying ever greater attention to the corporate environmental footprint and the risks associated with it. More and more economic operators must be able to show either the supplier or the final consumer what the environmental footprint of the entire value chain of the product is. More and more companies are therefore restructuring their processes, supply chains, replacing technologies or changing business models as a whole. The green turn is, of course, wider than that of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Both the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responsible for energy, and the Minister for the Environment have a major role to play here. Our main activities for green turn are as follows: Firstly, in order to support companies active in new green technologies, both start-ups and start-ups, we created a green fund of EUR 100 million. It provides funding through equity investment at different stages of development and across sectors, creating new products or services based on green technologies. Secondly, during 2021, concepts of support measures financed by the Fair Transition Fund and aimed at enabling the so-called fair transition in Ida-Virumaa have been developed in order to achieve climate objectives. Large investment aid for Ida-Viru will also be opened in 2022, allowing sustainable investments in new enterprises and production units. In the second half of the year, additional research intensity support and support for investments by small and medium-sized enterprises will be opened. All these actions will support the development and implementation of new environmentally friendly solutions. Good Riigikogu! The third strategic direction concerns the digital revolution. Estonia has successfully digitised 99% of our public sector services. At the same time, the digitalisation of our private sector is below the European average and is holding back productivity growth. In this way, it is important to support the digital revolution, and for that we are planning the next steps. Firstly, with the help of automation, robotics and artificial intelligence to increase the competitiveness of the industrial sector, we support companies' investment in digitalisation and the introduction of robots at EUR 53 million. Secondly, in order to help the productivity of Estonian industry to increase and increase the achievement of these sustainable goals, we invest 56 million euros in total. Thirdly, in order to save money, nature and working hours, we create a new real-time business environment where administrative activities, financial transactions and reporting are carried out automatically between machines. It is estimated that the transition to the real-time economy would save around EUR 200 million per year and over 14 million hours of work. As a first step, we move to e-invoices, e-mails and e-invoices. In other words, we will make payment and supply chains faster for businesses and we will lose paper cheques in shops for citizens. To this end, we will invest EUR 2 million in support of businesses this year. Good Riigikogu! No strategy or plan is worth anything unless it is implemented. What do we need for this? To succeed in the triple turn, the Estonian business environment must be the best. So the business environment is the fourth and last thing I want to talk to you about. We have a lot of untapped potential. Ensuring investment certainty and smooth interaction with investors and businesses with a country where agencies are primarily solution-oriented advisors, not sanctioners, is a basic need, creating the best living environment and opportunities for citizens and talent for self-realization. First of all, the quality of management. Our activities in shaping the business environment are forward looking and take into account what our competitors are doing. Every euro that we invest in a triple turn is targeted and amplified. Last year, we decided to merge two main business support organisations, EAS and KredEx. At the beginning of this year, the integrated institution will play a key role in implementing the triple turn and simplifying the customer path of businesses. Second of all, the connections. We all know that everyday life today is increasingly taking place in the digital world, whether it be teleworking, education, or other activities. However, there are nearly 80,000 addresses in Estonia, which are without high-speed internet access. The COVID crisis highlighted these bottlenecks particularly painfully. Creating fast internet connections is one of my main priorities. This is why we will invest over EUR 70 million in high-speed internet access over the next three to four years. It's more than the last ten years together. With regard to the new support measure, we have been guided by the logic that targeted investments can only be made in cooperation with local authorities and not in the office of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The establishment of a fast internet connection provides an opportunity for our companies, employees, children and everyone else to build Estonia's next success story from every corner of Estonia, so that even in the most distant village, no child's education will suffer because of the fluctuating Internet and no company's work will stop. Similarly, 5G data will finally reach Estonia this summer, which, in addition to the ultra-fast internet, will open a completely new horizon for our companies to bring solutions to the market in the future that we cannot even foresee today. Third, our digital state. One of Estonia's best known success stories and business cards abroad is our digital state and its image. For years, the Digikuvans have opened doors for us and our companies and have attracted investment and talent here. In recent years, however, our best known brand has been neglected at home. The digital state has been underfunded for years, and we have allowed our digital state to drown in the dungeon, while our own expectations of the digital state have increased. I am pleased that our government values the digital state and that this year's budget has made the first considerable investment in sustaining the digital state, with a total of 30 million over the last four years. The next development of the digital state is user comfort and focus. We have started activities to ensure that the services are proactive, that they function invisible to the user and that they are also accessible from the smart device. In the second half of the year, a road map will be completed to take the digital state to smartware, i.e. digikuru. In future, you can also participate in elections using a smart device. Development work is ongoing and when the work is completed on time, all tests confirm that this is a sufficiently secure solution, and so is the Republic Election Committee, then the first opportunity to vote in the next Riigikogu elections will arise at the earliest. Due to the image of a strong digital state, the e-residency programme has also been launched. Today, the resident of Estonia has brought over 20,000 companies to the state and brought some 29 million additional net income to the state budget last year. Throughout the programme, e-residency has brought 89 million gross revenues to the country. By 2025, more than 40% of new e-residents have started a business and the direct tax revenue of the Estonian state has increased by at least 30% annually. Speaking of dig, we can't ignore cyber security either. This is the other half of the digital coin, without which digitisation and the digital revolution are not sustainable, but rather increases our vulnerability. During the last day, 46 malware-infected websites or servers, 191 malware-infected devices, 13 service barriers attacks were detected in Estonia. But it's just the tip of the iceberg about what's going on in our cyberspace every day. Cybersecurity must be an area that gets more attention in both the public and private sectors and is adequately funded. Fourthly, we need to talk about trade relations. The COVID pandemic has shown the importance of security of supply and has been exacerbated by the energy security crisis. The biggest review of the global supply chains of this century is currently taking place, and Estonia must use this opportunity to our advantage. We have the opportunity to take Estonian companies to the supply chains of large companies in the world or to strengthen their existing position there. The more Estonia is embedded in the supply chains of large Western companies, the greater our international footprint and visibility, the more important our foreign partners think we are and the more important Estonia's welfare matters to them. During my term of office, I have made nearly 30 foreign visits, 13 of which were directly linked to the creation of business opportunities for businesses. I can only confirm that Estonia has a great deal to offer to the world and that there is a great deal of interest in us. But competition is also intense. Success depends on us, our ability to market, our ability to find partners, and our ability to scale where appropriate. This brings me to the fifth important point of the business environment, which is talent and skilled labour. It is not possible to digitise or robot production without an engineer. Similarly, it is not possible to move the digital society forward without developers. The Estonian labour market is shrinking by 31000 employees in five years, and we are already lacking in all sectors, including manufacturing, construction, IT companies and the service sector. The lack of skills is the biggest bottleneck for our companies across Estonia. In essence, all the companies I have met highlight the development of the workforce as the most limited company, regardless of whether it is an IT company in Tallinn or a furniture factory in Setomaa. We are looking for opportunities to ensure, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the succeeding growth of talent in Estonia and the re-training of our people according to the needs of the market. Private sector initiatives are also worthy of recognition, such as Jõhvi [Technology] School or Cleveron Academy. We have supported the latter during the COVID with the Ministry of Education and Research. However, these activities do not provide a rapid relief to Estonia's skills shortages and in the case of professions that cannot be filled with Estonia's skilled workforce, we must look to foreign talent. Otherwise, we ourselves will pull the handbrake on the Estonian economy and lead ourselves to the ditch. I am therefore pleased that the Riigikogu passed the Aliens Act on Monday, which helps to alleviate the labour force problem in Estonia. It is wrong to claim that the changes to the law will result in a reduction in the income or loss of jobs for Estonian people. On the contrary, the more attractive Estonia is as a destination for investment, the more jobs will be created and the more incomes will increase. The final point is the image of Estonia abroad. In the case of exports and, in particular, foreign investment, what we have internationally and how open we are to raise capital as an economy and as a society plays a crucial role. Estonia is known mostly as a digital state in the world. Estonia is the first country to operate as an e-service. Estonia has started a number of world-renowned technology companies and we have more viable start-ups per capita than anywhere else in Europe. We are the first country to offer e residency, the first country where e-voting took place. In addition, we are the most enterprising country in Europe and tax declarations will take place in three minutes. And the Estonian industrial sector is gaining recognition and recognition. In relation to Estonia's image, we also need to talk about the hospitality sector. The hospitality sector has suffered the most from the recent crisis, had to adapt business models and has not yet recovered from the crisis. The country has been shouldered with 160 million grants and guarantees. Of course, no support measure will replace the market or the customer during the tourism season. I am sure, however, that the better days of the sector are ahead. Why? Because we have an excellent hospitality sector. The state helps to market Estonia and we have a lot to offer as a destination. The slogan of a fresh tourism strategy says: "The time has come. "Our value offer is quality tourism, world-class food culture, beautiful nature, exciting cultural experiences and convenient solutions for teleworking and business tourism. In recognition of Estonian food culture, the world famous Michelin label comes to Estonia. On May 25th, we will find out which restaurants got an asterisk and which food sites got into Michelin's guide. This is the highest recognition for the leaders of Estonian food culture. Last Friday, we invited Estonians and Finns to visit each other and rediscover the neighbouring country together with our Finnish colleague Minister Lintilä. My own final experience of the versatility and speciality of the Estonian guest sector comes from Kirsi farm in Setomaa. Kaidi Kerdt, with the roots of Setomaa, returned to Setomaa after several years of commuting between Estonia and abroad and founded his own tourism farm there. According to the hostess, market demand is many times higher than the capacity to meet it. And we've got more and more stories like that without telling us. Let's not keep them to ourselves, let's share, and then we'll have new success stories. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I look optimisticly towards 2035. I have visited every county during my term of office, met dozens of entrepreneurs and people. These meetings confirm that our people are looking to the future "glass is half full, not half empty" prism. Of course, we have bottlenecks in Estonia that need to be resolved. But together, we have also been through more difficult times and successfully overcome them. 30 years ago we started rebuilding a re-independenced Estonia. Even then, we had difficult times at national level and anxious times outside. But our eyes were shining, thinking about the future of Estonia. At the time, we dared to think big and act fearlessly. Let's make our eyes shine again to make the vision of "Estonia 2035" come true! Then in 2035 we can look back to this year and say that we made the right decisions at the time. It's state-of-the-art decisions. They may not always have been the most popular, but they were necessary for Estonia to be the best place in the world to live in any corner of Estonia in 2035, where our people have great opportunities for self-realization, our companies are successful and the tax burden is fair, our elderly are well-maintained, our teachers are well-paid and our country protected, and our allies and partners outside Estonia appreciate us, we are internationally well-known and exemplary in our strong areas. This is how we build Estonia, which matters to the world. Thank you for listening and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U581	And there are. Peter Ernits is starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U582	Good manager! Good Andres, welcome to this evening. Last time we waited for you, but you didn't come. So welcome! All this was such a beautiful marketing speech, very good. However, while sitting in the Special Committee on budgetary control and reading these reports, the picture is not so happy. I'll ask you about some meters. Well, for example, you promise here that 10% of the most quoted scientific articles in the world will rise from 8.4% to 12.5%. Or another thing is that public digital satisfaction among businesses [is] rising from 47% to 90%. Twice! Or, of course, this particularly embarrassing thing, remember that last audit by the National Audit Office? The availability of high-speed internet [is rising] from 58 to 100. But you remember where it's come from now, right? That's the point of embarrassment. Ollepa, remember? Decomposed to ruins and other places where we don't need to. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do you achieve such indicators?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U583	Thanks for asking. I'll take that last question first. It is precisely because we do not have examples like Ollepa for the new third measure. We co-ordinated and consulted local authorities so that they could put in place the addresses that are important for them, where the fast internet is needed first. Very many local authorities have done so. So I look optimisticly at the new measure, it will come out soon. And then we can already see what the feedback is. And if it turns out that something needs to be adjusted, of course we'll adjust it. Now that the question is whether the goals that we have set can be achieved, man would never have reached the moon if there had been no ambition. We would never have reached the European Union or NATO if we had no such ambition. I believe that with less ambition than what we have recorded in the various strategies, we have no reason to work. Let's do these together. I think we can look back with pride in years, not shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U584	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U585	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Just a few days ago, I listened to Äripäev's radio conversation with entrepreneurs, rather small and medium-sized enterprises, about their concerns. From there came the simple things, as usual: labor, housing for workers. One of the things that goes from election to election is this duplication of bureaucracy in reporting, be it the Statistical Office, the Tax Administration, in this case, the Agricultural Office. This somehow goes on year after year, [though] electoral programmes always get in to cut red tape and do something. But what are these real opportunities to actually sum it up and negotiate with businesses where they see this duplication? Where do you see the duplication that can actually be done here? This theme, let's just say, makes you feel comfortable when you get up again. Of course, duplication is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U586	Yes, this is the feedback that I have heard from entrepreneurs too. I think whoever has done business or other things has probably experienced it himself. I mentioned the real-time economy in my speech. The point of the real-time economy is precisely that instead of reporting, which is being recorded somewhere and perhaps something is being done, companies are reporting. And when we provide data, this data can already be used to generate different analyses, reports. And similarly, we really need to follow this "only once" principle that we don't ask for the same information from several places. If the question is whether it is done next year, well, certainly not. It takes editing, doing. I believe in my people that they are taking this project with great energy and seriousness. If we take even this simple thing like e-invoices, then in e-invoices, communication with the country is over 90%, almost 100% e-invoice-based. Private companies use e-invoices less than half each other. This is certainly a place where bureaucracy can be reduced. But I will repeat here what I said in the speech and what I have heard very much from various meetings with companies in different corners of Estonia. We have a lot of excellent positions where [working people] are advisors and directors for the entrepreneur, and we also have jobs that are designed to look and find formal reasons why things cannot be done. I think it's at least as big a subject to deal with. Everything always starts with management and management culture. So if we move from reports to data reporting, then surely this burden on businesses will be repeated and, in fact, we will win everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U587	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U588	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, First of all, thank you for this inspiring speech and for an ambitious strategy plan. Ambition is very important, but a supportive business environment has certainly been very important. After all, he is actually quite successful, if we look at him in such a picture, growth germs and innovation have already brought us over ten, or eleven unicorns. We also have private capital that can be reinvested. But the main problem is that they are all in almost one sector, the IT sector. It's a well-growing environment. The problem is certainly other areas, especially those where growth is very important for the green turn. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Supporting their growth phase may not be as inspiring to the private sector. How can they be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U589	Thank you. This is a very correct observation, and I think it has also been a logical path. Since the capital intensity is much lower in software-based development, this is why we have so many successful start-ups in the software sector and also in higher age. In order to continue to succeed, of course, there is a need to increase the development of technology-based, especially in-depth, companies. For this, there is a fund in SmartCapi, which we have now also made for green technologies, which I mentioned earlier. The amount is EUR 100 million, to which at least the same amount of private money comes. So we are talking about at least 200-300 million, which is provided as equity capital, and there will be additional funding. The most important success, however, is perhaps that Estonia is the place where talent wants to be. We have an excellent living environment, and that is why people invest here, stay here or come here. The creation of this whole ecosystem is important, and I think we are really good at it. I am very proud of what our technology and start-up sectors have achieved, and when they realise their goals, all the big goals that are stated in the "TAIE 2035" development plan and the "Estonia 2035" strategy are achievable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U590	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U591	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I promise a little ironic approach. Namely, almost two members of the Riigikogu I have dealt with broadband. There's been a COVID crisis between here, which made it very clear that we have a problem. Today we have come to the point that the Minister of the Reform Party is seriously speaking here that we have a problem that needs to be resolved. The zero point we started off with was much worse. But now let's talk about the content, in the sense that this road has already been covered, that they're asking who still needs this high-speed data connection. You are suggesting that today the strategic change is one way of saying that there are 70 million. This, in fact, in history, is not the biggest investment; the base network alone already went to the circuma 100 million. What are these strategic steps? We actually know the households who want to get this data connection, and the local government has to make a torch and a choice for those who do not, because in fact, the money is still missing. How do we proceed with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U592	Thank you. Good questioner, you have really dealt with broadband for a long time, and it is right that we do not cover this white area by a hundred percent with this 70 million. Since we cannot cover everything and all at once, I think it makes a lot of sense that we start from the beginning where local authorities and communities think that pain is the greatest. It is different from previous grants that this time the budget is divided on a local government basis. Each local government has its own budget envelope and within it it it can move and deliver nicely. As I said, if this approach that we have had needs to be corrected, we will correct it immediately. We won't wait years or months. We'll do the first rounds and the procurement, and it'll give us quick feedback on where we're going. And I think it is also right to say, as a fact, that our market is capable of building a circuit for 20 million a year. We can't have everything at once anyway. But we'll do where we need to, we'll be flexible, we'll make it technologically neutral, so there's this earth wire somewhere, right, but somewhere it's gonna be in the air. This continues to be an important issue for me, and I am also quite sure that by the end of the year we will be able to demonstrate what we have achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U593	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U594	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your review. You're goddamn right every long road starts with a small step. Before you, a couple of governments or three governments have dealt with this issue, probably after you, or you will continue to deal with it after the elections. The strategy is also foreseen until 2035. But I use the term "last mile," although it's not quite correct, but it's more understandable to people. Indeed, in the new period, quite a lot of resources have been allocated to this. But a simple analysis shows that it doesn't quite satisfy the real need. And speed and availability are not synonymous. One is speed, the other is availability. At the end of your review, you said which Estonia you expect to see: that the elderly have been cared for and so on. However, the municipality is faced with very large tasks to ensure that Estonia is [such]. Mr Metsoja, in part, has already asked this question. But are there any other measures to be taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U595	To achieve better coverage with a high-speed Internet? Yes, we are reviewing the existing agreement, which is currently with Enefit Connect, to see if it makes sense to continue in this form. But I think the most important thing is that we move forward from here, we get feedback from the market, how much businesses are interested in building these connections at all. People's interest exists, I've experienced it. As I said, I have been through all the counties of Estonia. I haven't made it to all the parishes, but I've been through a lot. And if it turns out there's something to set up somewhere, let's set it up. I'm not gonna give up my tantrum until we get this thing going.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U596	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U597	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned in your report that there is much to gain from the green turn. As a member of the relatively fresh Economic Commission and the Committee on European Union Affairs, I have been very familiar with the 'Objective 55' and other documents on the Green Paper and have tried to familiarise myself. I have noticed that in general, at least in the short term, when we talk about forestry, energy, the oil shale industry, agriculture, food production, peat production, the maritime sector and many other sectors, everything tends to be more expensive for them and revenue is decreasing. Could you please mention the specific economic areas that will win the green turn in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U598	The green turn is a win-win for all areas. Really! Just as I said in my speech, when we look at the direction in which regulation is going, starting with the financial sector, when you cannot show what your carbon footprint is, sooner rather than later, the question is not what the price of the loan is, but what you will not be given at all. I have met a lot of companies, large companies outside Estonia. And usually at the presentations by these companies on either the second or third slide: we will achieve the CO2 neutrality target by 2030 to 2035 or somewhere in the area. They must ask all their suppliers: show what your carbon footprint is. And the biggest victory in all this exercise, in addition to making the world cleaner and better, is that we will then be forced to review as entrepreneurs, where I can do something better. And in my opinion, there's only to win. With every major innovation, the winners are ultimately. And, of course, we're not talking today about making something a little bit better around here or a little bit better around here. It is a groundbreaking innovation, a groundbreaking change. And there's been a change. Also in Ida-Virumaa, when we look at the companies that are there and which are expanding and investing there, there is a huge potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U599	Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U600	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I actually agree with you that it is very important for the country to establish a point of contact between the private sector and science. And the private sector actually has a great interest in it, you also mentioned it. But I'm just interested in the applied research program you mentioned. How exactly does this work? And also, what further steps could be taken to find talent early to find this point of contact with the students?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U601	Thank you. The applied research programme has been working for some time, and if we look at these results, the projects that have been approved for funding, which are then collaborative projects between the company and the university or between research institutions, these areas are very different. I'm very happy for that. There are examples of [projects] from health, hydrogen technologies, biotechnology. And I think one of the reasons why we have arrived is that we have developed national capital in Estonia. We have had successful exits from businesses that have sold their business to other investors and are now able to invest and invest themselves. But in the same way, both TalTech and the University of Tartu have the capacity to actually provide basic science and support. And these areas are very different. In the case of industrial research and in the case of trials, this also concerns, for example, a field such as shipbuilding. We have a company like Baltic Workboats in Saaremaa, and they have used the services of the Finnish Applied Research Centre for a number of tests. So this is one element that we definitely need in Estonia if we want to reach 110% of [the European average] with our labour productivity. How do you popularize all this? I think it is very important for young people in particular to show that modern industry is not hard work, black and unopposed; it is actually technology-based. If you have education and skills in the IT field, in the field of engineering, you know mathematics well, other natural sciences, then opportunities are huge. Any young person who plays computer games can manage a rescue boat. I don't play computer games, but the Baltic Workboats lifeboat they did to the Belgians and I could drive once, all I had to do was turn the button. But the 15-year-olds and the younger ones do it much better than me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U602	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U603	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. We've come to education by the end. Generally speaking, these concerns, which are not just in one area, are much more difficult to solve. Take, for example, IT higher education. If we are talking about the need for more people in the field, then Bachelor and Master students are also needed. We need productivity gains, we need local innovations, doctoral students, research staff, teaching staff to higher education institutions. In fact, the problem is both quantity and quality. We need more people and actually smarter heads there. How is the cooperation with the Ministry of Education going and what are the plans, I don't know, both in terms of additional funding and in terms of some good ideas? How to get more graduates and, in fact, more doctoral students and faculty who would carry this collaboration with private business and R &amp; D?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U604	Thank you. With the Ministry of Education, we will actually solve this task or the work together. I gave an example here in the speech. The same Cleveron Academy, which is extremely popular in Viljandi and has practical training at the company. Cleveron is very, very innovative. COVID was a difficult time for everyone, and then the company could no longer finance the education alone, and we actually added additional funding together with the Ministry of Education. Similarly, there are many other projects in the field of artificial intelligence and robotics. How we get doctoral students and lecturers in the ICT field is a very big question and there is no very quick and simple solution. This is a question of funding all the higher education that goes beyond the framework of my presentation today. But I think it's a subject that needs to be dealt with. There are many interested people, especially in the ICT field, but we have not been able to train doctoral students and lecturers. There are too many students per faculty. At the same time, this is a problem that can be solved if we can bring outside professors here. I think that's what needs to be dealt with. But the big question is the funding for higher education, and that, of course, must be discussed with universities. This will certainly create a lively debate here in the Riigikogu Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U605	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. There are quite a number of questions, really, from 5G and one window system in Estonia to the point of allocating a certain percentage to research and development. Perhaps we should also be more ambitious in view of the public sector. But now that I have to concentrate, I'm going to ask you about the e-residency that ran through your report. You knew how many e-residents there are and how much tax revenue we have received. But I've heard the opposite. What I have heard is that the e-residency programme is essentially about to stop. The reasons are that, in relation to the anti-terrorist financing and anti-money laundering directives, banks have essentially stopped opening accounts for non-residents and are closing existing invoices. In my opinion, this e-residency program does not really work in its nature, at least at the level we once hoped it would be. Why don't you just say a few words about how it is in itself? Do we have any solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U606	Thank you. That's the question. E-residency is certainly one of the Estonian brands that we use outside, and it has brought over 20,000 established companies here. Each product must evolve over time. And actually, this is a review of the e-residency strategy. There are a number of things that will definitely have a positive impact. There was a reference to the fact that it has been more difficult to obtain bank accounts. According to the new, yet unconfirmed strategy, there will be much more Member States of the European Union to offer companies here the opportunity to benefit from the very simple and smooth business environment in Estonia. We often feel that this is not a good thing, that is not a good thing, and that is not a good thing at all. But looking from the outside and speaking to the various entrepreneurs why they have come to Estonia to do things, they say that everything here is much simpler than their home country. These are all topics of this relative scale. But the focus is important, and that is why we are focusing more on the countries of the European Union and less on those regions where it is difficult to open a bank account. But as a brand, as part of Estonia's image, e-residency is certainly important. I've been asked where I've been.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U607	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U608	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Technological progress is accelerating, no doubt about it. And that is why this long-term development strategy is a very important document, and I would like everything that has been set out here to be realised. There are a lot of robots in the world. We know that in Japan, robots take care of bartender work, and there are robots that serve old people in nursing homes and so on and so forth. But on a practical level, we are bringing the goal that, by the end of this year, the first event services will reach people: marriage and having a child. I'm gonna pick on you now, but I'm gonna ask you how that is digitally possible: marriage and having a baby. I hope you understand the joke in the late hours of the night.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U609	Thank you. I don't know that it's possible to have a baby digitally. Digitally get married, I think the important thing about marriage or living together is what two people think about each other and how they feel about each other. However, in the case of event services, the primary aim is to make things easier for the citizen. When I have a baby or we have a baby, I don't have to think about what statements, what papers or, let's say, what statements I have to fill out somewhere, but this thing is simplified, pre-filled. All I need to do is maybe nod somewhere, and I'll get all the necessary things done, the baby named, and all the other important things that have to do with it. This is a pilot, let's see how it can be used, let's learn from it, and let's think about what's next that can be used as event services. And robotics, the example of a robot, you referred to Japan. Dubai Expo was also a robot serving drinks in our pavilion. So we also use robots.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U610	Good Minister, no further questions today. Now, here's the thing. Let's move on with the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor during the negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jüri Jaanson. Please! [[Jüri Jaanson is asking for more time.]] Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U611	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, And the honorable minister who is still in the hall! The Reform Party attaches great importance to rapid action in the fields of innovation, digital and green turns and recognises the activities of the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology in implementing the development strategy "Estonia 2035." If I now use the Minister's own words that this action must brighten people's eyes, I would say that the Minister's own eyes must shine in this action. And I hope this glow lasts a long time. The general metrics of the "Science and Development, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Plan 2021"2035, which the Minister pointed out in his speech, must be borne in mind. It is important to reach 110% of labour productivity growth compared to the EU average and to achieve a 2% increase in private R &amp; D expenditure. The country must continue to set an example here with its 1% contribution to GDP, and we must encourage talent to be brought here. In the case of refugees, we must promote their rapid entry into the labour market. We can contribute to this and we have contributed well to the legislative process here in the Riigikogu. Greater access to venture capital for start-ups that are research-intensive and foster green thinking and helping foreign markets is very important. We have a good business environment, its ecosystem through private funds, to provide support for businesses in the growth phase. At the same time, it is also necessary to support areas beyond the IT sector, which, while contributing to a green turnaround, are not acceptable to venture capital in terms of return, growth rate and internal rate of return. Work needs to be done here, because start-ups in the recovery sector, for example, are stuck behind the lack of funding in the development of the growth phase, and then there will be no grassroots. By implementing Estonia as a digital society [the plan], we urgently need to reach an extremely fast internet accessible to all and secure and reliable cyberspace. The information technology environment brings added value to the economy as a whole, 5G and cybersecurity are the cornerstones of central IT services, together with data clouds. For the citizen, the country comes everywhere in his smart device. It broadens its learning and employment opportunities and generates benefits for society. The digital revolution is also important for industry and business, and investment for this purpose is crucial. The Reform Party encourages the Minister to move forward quickly by creating a real-time business environment that would give Estonia a competitive advantage on the international market. We must support separately and strongly the green development of the business environment in Ida-Virumaa, which is also a major challenge. In the case of a green turn, it should be taken into account that changes begin with man and his thinking. Environmental footprint measurement, the development of innovative technologies and the restructuring of business models also require new, environmentally sound thinking. This is why it is important for funding funds to encourage the growth of greentech companies, and also for legislation to shape a greener world. To sum it up. Our talents and the courage to take risks and global ambition form a community that will help us achieve international success and keep our image as a success country. As a result, we can have faster connections, we can have more e-state here and, through this, we can ensure a rapid growth in the well-being of both citizens and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U612	The Social Democrats have authorized Raimond Kaljulaid to speak for themselves. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U613	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U614	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U615	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Naturally, I thank you, on behalf of the Socialists, for this presentation, which was very interesting to follow, as well as the good colleagues for the debate that has followed this presentation. In general, one rule of thumb in the economy is that if the economy is doing well, it is the result of government policy, and if the economy is experiencing difficulties, it is always responsible for external factors which, unfortunately, are not under government control and which unfortunately could not be influenced by the government. If we look at the economic context of the Estonian economy, we are forced to admit that the economy will naturally cool down. The latest report by the Institute of Economics tells of the deterioration of the business environment. The latest Eesti Pank forecasts are also negative, the uncertainty is very high. This, of course, relates to the issue of energy prices. Under normal circumstances, in this case, we should avoid decisions in every way that create more uncertainty, but we are not in a normal situation, we are in a war situation, we cannot avoid these decisions. Development plans in Estonia are always very pretty, and undoubtedly the ministerial reviews are also very beautiful. However, the task of the opposition in the current situation, and Mr Reinsalu too, belongs to the opposition, is nevertheless to highlight weaknesses in government policy. And I would draw attention to the many tendencies I have noted here in the Riigikogu concerning our economic and business environment. First of all, the Economic Commission and the European Union Affairs Committee pass through a series of draft decisions that increase the administrative burden on businesses. That's a fact. There is a growing increase in regulation, with a wide range of different forms of regulation. The number of companies that have to submit energy audits is increasing, and so on and so forth. I don't think we've even reported this on ourselves. If we were to look at the legislation dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs during this membership, as well as the European Union's affairs in the Committee on European Union Affairs, undoubtedly have an impact on our business environment as well, if we were to look at the decisions made by this Riigikogu as a whole, then I think we would actually see a quite significant increase in bureaucracy and administrative burdens on businesses. The minister was talking about the green turn. Indeed, as I referred to in the question-answers, the first major interim phase of the green turn, the 'Objective 55' documents, means a loss of revenue that is actually considerable for many sectors and companies operating there. We are not only talking about forestry; we are not only talking about energy, the oil shale industry, where it is quite natural that these grassroots are concerned, but we are also talking about agriculture and, for example, peat production. Maybe I'll stop for a second on a separate seaboard. The integration of the emissions trading system into maritime transport, as well as the introduction of sustainable fuels in the maritime sector, is in fact what this means, and the state also acknowledges in its documents that our shipping companies' investment capacity is being reduced, and the prices of shipping tickets and freight transport are rising. But that, in turn, affects our export routes. If we are very simply imagining a producer of wooden modular houses, element houses in Estonia, who sells their products to, for example, the Nordic countries and takes it there by sea, then it is clear that the appreciation of transport also means the appreciation of its production and this reduces the ability of this company to compete with companies in these same Nordic countries. The price of shipping tickets affects our tourism sector and so on. I don't mean to say the grass is bad. I don't mean "Objective 55" is bad. By this I would like to say that this unexploited optimism and rhetoric-style "all win" and anyone who raises critical questions or asks questions about how the additional costs for companies operating in these sectors or the need to upgrade technology will be compensated for by those asking these questions, will be branded as reactionary and anti-progressive. It's probably not very constructive. In fact, on the contrary, if the state is not honest with its businesses, with its citizens about their negative effects, then, believe me, disappointment later will be much greater. Just today, we approved amendments to the Construction Act, which change the regulations relating to the construction of wind energy[objects] in Estonia. Among other things, we actually significantly increased the risk for companies contributing to wind energy. A company that has received a statutory building permit and has built a windmill park in accordance with that permit may discover itself in a situation where the state changes its mind and declares that we have re-evaluated the risks and that we consider that the building built in accordance with the building permit is still not safe from the point of view of national defence, and this building cannot be authorised. In fact, it is very vaguely defined what the responsibility of the state is in such a situation. Let's talk about labour taxation. This is, of course, not the direct competence of the Minister for Enterprise; this is the competence of the Minister for Finance, but we are honest, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Enterprise are in one political party. High labour taxation is a problem known for years. Political parties currently in government have both offered their vision, their solutions, in this regard before the elections. There's no bill, there's no action. At present, people who earn a perfectly normal middle-class salary go under tax humps and are penalised by the state with higher income tax. The Social Democrats have, in my view, proposed a very sensible increase in the start of the tax hump to EUR 2 000. We have proposed raising the tax-free minimum twice, now we have done it for the third time. Unfortunately, the Reform Party has lost its edge on this issue. I guess people get older over time. We could go on for a long, long time. The question of labour was mentioned. In fact, it is clear that caution must be exercised when admitting cheap labour. There are countries from which we can learn from our experience. Yes, in the short term, it gives a certain proportion of companies the opportunity to earn income, but in the long term it may mean additional costs for the state in the social sphere, in the educational sphere and so on. Like I said, we could talk for a long time. I think that the main problem in Estonia tends to be that which is perhaps similar to the trap of such a medium-sized enterprise: some progress has been made, but unfortunately a strong vision has now been replaced by this bureaucratic tinkering. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I would like to thank the President for pointing out that my time has ended. It would have been nice if he had also drawn attention to the chatter of certain colleagues, which slightly disrupted this report. But it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U616	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U617	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! In this sense, it was an interesting presentation today that, when we start to think about where we are actually now, we are in a situation where we have an inflation rate of 15%, we are in a situation where we have access to raw materials [decreases] and the cost is rising, where unemployment is increasing in the coming years, and then we are talking about these various metrics and this beautiful green turn story. But, well, it's inevitable. I would rather say that now, when you start talking about what you started: a strong, innovative, responsible Estonian economy, innovative, reliable, human-centric government. You could put a hand on that. Of course! But when you start looking at them and dissecting them by points, there are still important questions. Three things, as you yourself pointed out: innovation, digital state, grassroots. Let's go through them once, just like you went through them in your report. In terms of innovation, you are proposing that we should focus our attention on private companies reaching 2% of GDP in their R &amp; D activities. I think that's very reasonable. But at no point did you stop to see if the state could make further investments in R &amp; D. Is the 1% we've received the ceiling for us? Looking at our immediate neighbours, such as Finland, it can be said that the public contribution to R &amp; D is also much higher. I remember myself, having been in politics for a long time, how much time it took for us to reach a political agreement of 1%. But if we're talking about 2035 today, maybe it should be an ambition for the public sector to review that percentage too? That's one small observation. The trend towards cooperation between entrepreneurs and universities, I think, is very sensible, very right. We support it in every way and are also ready to contribute to helping companies to develop their R &amp; D activities. Stop once in a digital state. I asked about e-residency. We actually have real concerns. True, e-residency has been one of the important words in our cloud of messages, and we have really tried to put it into practice. We see that there are e-residents in every country, in a very large number of countries, but yet the real economic activity of e-residents has been increasingly and more inhibited in recent times. The problem is also, in reality, the fear of our commercial banks to deliver with e-residents, manage their accounts and contribute to their business through settlements, as well as possible loans. Rather, the banks have taken a position not to take risks because they do not know what these risks involve. Perhaps at some point there will be a loss of banking licence. That's a problem. I think this is actually becoming an e-residency problem. And I certainly ask the government not only in the 2035 perspective, but actually today and tomorrow, and also the day after tomorrow. Otherwise, we will not implement this e-residency program as we have seen it. One window system. There was a question-and-answer discussion here too. We have sold society the knowledge that the state asks once: that if the country has asked once, no matter who it is... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U618	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U619	For example, if the tax office has asked for some information and the Social Insurance Board needs it, it has it through the tax office. One time the country asks. Actually, it doesn't work. It's a problem, actually, it doesn't work. And I think that the government should, again, not turn this gauge into place by 2035, but already today, to deal with really achieving a situation where you ask once and that is the end of it. 5G roll-out, I put in a keyword. Oh, my God, that's some kind of tail and hair thing. I hope we get to the point where we can finally get this 5G data link in place, so it won't take a bunch of years to do it, just like it's actually gone so far. Indeed, our sincere hope is that we will get this over with. Our message certainly also from the party is the need to pay attention to artificial intelligence. I think it's an important keyword. We do not need to fear artificial intelligence; rather, we need to take different steps to ensure that artificial intelligence helps us in our daily lives. And the last of the heroes. I think it was a good question that Raimond Kaljulaid asked: who will actually win it? And I also wrote here a sentence that was your very first sentence on the green turn: it must be seen as an opportunity, not as an expense. That was your line. You know, it's more like what to say, such slogans, political slogans. And it surprises me that it comes out of your mouth, who as a party you have always observed the cost and effectiveness and everything that comes with it, especially with regard to people and the country as a whole. In the case of a green turn-over, I think it should certainly be the goal of heading, of course, no one would doubt it, towards renewable energy. Renewable energy is what comes to stay. But at the same time, we can't put away the power we control. If we only stick to uncontrolled energy sources, we will most likely not last long. Which, in turn, means that in implementing the green turn, we must think wisely about what our success stories today have been about fossil fuels, where we have technology, knowledge and resources. And once again: I think that as long as we can use these drums for us in order to lower our spending levels, we should definitely deal with this. So to sum up, of course, the goals are beautiful, but as always in the case of cake, you have to see that all the ingredients are correct and in a proper consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U620	On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Peeter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U621	Good manager! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Everything is very beautiful and Andres is a good man. But if you look at it, get a little deeper into these future plans, the R&D&I and digital society development plan, and look at these metrics and all these big plans, the flags are waving, and marketing talk is beautiful. There was once a great leap in China when the agrarian society was intended to reach socialism. We're about to have a triple jump, or what he called it, a triple turn. But the thought remains the same. What came to China? Big famine and shit. I hope that we will not, but waving the green flag, all this rushing towards climate neutrality, self-sustaining, economic challenges, and also financial challenges, are extremely great. We spoke a moment ago about increasing the cost of defense. It takes 4% to reach this bright future. I don't know where it's taken from. But that's it. Everything's beautiful. Useless administration is a thing of the past, the complexity of the functioning of the state is invisible, we can access the service anywhere and at any time with a good connection and so on and so forth. But as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I see it on the other side. Let's take this X-Road as an example. Well, the company's security isn't controlled. We analysed the information security of the local government, examined a report from the National Audit Office. There's a huge mess, like the Wild West. Or cybersecurity, which is particularly important today. The state does not only have the physical protection of the territory, but digital assets are equally important. And if the backups of the five critical databases are kept in foreign embassies, the preservation of the remaining critical data in the five databases would not be ensured if the data centres in Estonia were physically destroyed. Or an e-residency that a colleague stopped at. Criminals can become residents of Estonia and so on and so forth. The fast internet is not going to be talked about, it is a very painful subject for Andres, and I think that this example of 'Ollepa' and other places in Estonia will change things, break this backbone, and it will move in the direction of the better. But these figures, if you look at them, and the indices that are going to look at them, well, we now have the share of 10% of the most quoted scientific articles of 8.4%, but by 2030 it has to be 12.5%. It's a very big, very big jump. Or another [objective] example, raise private R &amp; D expenditure to 2%. The starting point was 0.86, which affects all our higher education and innovative approach. I'm not even going to talk about the fast Internet, from 58% to 100%. Andres said that ambition should be great. Of course it has to be. But somehow the resilience of cyberspace doesn't have to rise: 96% is the starting point, the future and the goal are 96%. It's not 100%. Since 100% is right in many places, I don't know why it's not there. But that's it. In fact, one of the dreams must be big and only so is it possible to [go on], but real life still makes serious adjustments. And when we finally came to the e-elections, we only had the EKRE Congress and Ants Frosch, the first head of Estonian foreign intelligence, was there and could have been the first head of the Estonian Defence Police. He told me how e-elections work, the example of Otepää parish. The social worker profiles the people first, and then the leaders of the municipality arrive in the right place, and then they say that the mummy or the papilla, find your ID card, gets a little less foot. Ants Frosch said that we cannot have three different countries: one is here in Tallinn, which we are looking at here, the other is somewhere in Otepää...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U622	Mr. Ernits, do you need more time? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U623	So this, too, is a serious problem, although I understand that some of my colleagues think that everything is in the best condition. But the fact that we are an e-Tiger is really starting to limp lately or for a long time now, and many of these so-called digital services, which in themselves are excellent in terms of the idea, require constant feeding and continuous development. So I wish you the strength to carry this titanium work! If you've been abroad 30 times in just over a year, that's two to three times a month. But I'm sure there's still work to be done here, and I understand that last night, when we were waiting for you here, you must have had a dozen more jobs, or you're resting a little bit. I'm glad you're here right now. In any case, your report was relatively good. Jaak Abil was extremely thorough, but some of your colleagues have taken this task over his leg. 50 lines, for example, a summary. Embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing. So, power!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U624	The political groups have no further requests to speak. We have exhausted this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U625	The eleventh item on the agenda is the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related other laws 521. The second reading report is presented by Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U626	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Employment Contract Act and other related acts with number 521 is today in the main hall at second reading. Between two readings, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft on 21 March and 4 April. It is recalled that this law is intended to supplement the amount of information to be notified in writing to the staff member before taking up their duties. These amendments are motivated by a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union. There were no amendments to the bill from the Riigikogu. However, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Confederation of Trade Unions submitted their opinions and proposals. They were all discussed at length in the Commission on 21 March. I would just like to highlight one topic of discussion. The development of technology and the growing popularity of teleworking make it possible to work with several employers and for much more than 40 hours a week. The impact of this change on the worker's ability to work, the possible increase in risks at work, especially in some occupations, and safety in general, has therefore changed. However, it was quite unanimous that any restrictions on the right to choose work would be detrimental to the fundamental rights of the people. A person needs to know his own limitations. In addition, agreements on restrictions of competition can, of course, be concluded if necessary. Of course, worker protection can also be regulated by less restrictive measures, and this possibility also exists in the law and the draft. Peep Peterson, Chairman of the Confederation of Trade Unions, expressed doubts that labour law would become less favourable to employees if the directive was transposed. However, the Commission's discussion can be summarised by a single question and an answer. Will the rules tighten up when the principles of the directive are introduced into Estonian law? And the answer to this: the Directive deals with the right to employment in a timely manner and specifies the obligation for the employer to notify. Work in practice has already been recorded during the drafting of the draft and no major changes will be made. Here I sum up quoting Seili Suder, the head of the working environment of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The relatively technical draft and current practice will then be clarified in the summary. The Head of the Trade Union Confederation that took part in this meeting stressed the importance of maintaining established practice today. However, on 21 March, the debate gave the draft author an indication that differences of opinion on employment contracts cannot be decided by the Committee on Legal Affairs on what is called a position of power, but require agreement between the social partners. The Commission also gave time for this. On 4 April, the Commission re-convened and took decisions for a second reading. One amendment, one amendment for deletion, was drafted as an initiative of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the draft. This concerns § 5 of the Employment Contracts Act, more specifically the introductory part of the sentence. In short, such a change was made. Initially, it was intended to read as follows: "The employer shall inform the employee in writing of at least the following information before taking up his duties' and a list followed. As the social partners did not agree on this and there is no direct need under the directive, it will remain the way the Employment Contracts Act currently does. Following procedural decisions were taken. Take this amendment fully into account. The consensus was on that. It was further decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda on 13 April, that the second reading be closed and that, when the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be held on 20 April. All these decisions were consensual and their consensual decision-makers were Jürgenson, Kannimäe, Kaskpeit, Kruusimäe, Puustusmaa, Tiidus and Toomast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U627	Thank you very much. My colleagues don't have any questions. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Before we finish, we will examine this one amendment. But first, I still have to ask if anyone would like to take the floor. I'm opening negotiations. No, it doesn't. I'll close the negotiations. This one amendment has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have examined the amendment and we can finish the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U628	The 12th item is the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation and protection of investments, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, 520. We have a first reading. Please ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu speech chair Eva-Maria Liimetsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U629	Honourable Riigikogu! The [draft] that we are discussing today aims to terminate the bilateral agreement on investment facilitation and protection with Austria. The contract to be concluded was signed on 16 May 1994 in Tallinn and entered into force on 1 October 1995. On 12 January 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria forwarded a note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia proposing the termination of the agreement. Similarly to the termination of investment promotion and protection agreements between Finland and Sweden, the termination of this agreement is also necessary in order to ensure equal treatment of investors in all Member States of the European Union under European Union law. Investment promotion and protection agreements concern areas governed by European Union law, in particular the freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital and payments. Since the protection of investment between Member States and the equal treatment of investors are governed by European Union law, bilateral agreements between Member States have no substantive meaning. At the same time, although European Union law prevails over agreements concluded by a Member State, relying on them may nevertheless lead to unequal treatment between investors in Member States, depending on whether or not an investment protection agreement has been concluded. On 15 January 2019, Member States, including Austria, declared that all investment protection agreements within the European Union would be jointly terminated on the basis of a multilateral agreement or bilateral agreements. Austria decided to terminate the investment agreements with the countries of the European Union bilaterally. Estonia has also ratified the bilateral termination agreement with Sweden and Finland, as well as with the United Kingdom that has left the European Union. The termination of the [promotion] bilateral investment agreement with Austria will not reduce investor protection and the continued protection and equal treatment of Estonian and Austrian investors will be ensured by European Union law and European Union internal market rules. Consequently, I would ask the Riigikogu to ratify this [agreement].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U630	Peter Ernits would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U631	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. You've arrived so fast, you almost missed you. My question is that there has been a transition to so-called general agreements. But some countries have resisted, when said in rural language, and have still maintained their bilateral [agreements]. And as I understand it, Austria is one of the last Mohicans. The question is, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U632	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. The decision to terminate these bilateral agreements was taken by the Member States as early as 2019. Indeed, individual countries decided to terminate the previously concluded agreements bilaterally, most countries decided to terminate them within the framework of the Treaty on European Union. Why Austria has chosen this path, I cannot say. However, in our view, it is important that this legal space and the clarity of the legal space are equally guaranteed to investors. That is why we are proposing to end this bilateral agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U633	Please, Peter Ernits, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U634	Thank you. However, these last Mohicans were not only Austrians, [but also] Swedes and Finns. What's the point? The fact that we have an unequal marriage with Austria, their investments are ten times greater than ours, well, it's maybe just as small a nuance. But why is there still more than one country in the last four countries that have tried not to switch right away, but to maintain these contracts? Can you at least guess? That's hardly what it's been.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U635	I don't know about that. Countries organise their contractual base according to how the country's wishes have been. I really do not know why they chose the path of completing the bilateral agreement, and we are now ratifying it bilaterally. However, with this amendment, it is still important that nothing changes with this change in substance for either Austria or the investor in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U636	No further questions. Thank you! The Committee on Foreign Affairs is briefed by Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U637	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For the first time, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation for the first reading on 21 February of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of investments and the termination of the Protection Agreement. The [Ministry of Foreign Affairs] Lawyer of the Office of International Law, Carmel Tellis, who attended the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, presented the draft, explaining that the agreement was necessary to ensure equal treatment of investors in all EU Member States. The protection of Estonian investors will not be reduced by graduation, and the equal treatment of Estonian and Austrian investments and investors will continue to be ensured by European Union law. At the Commission meeting, it was decided to appoint Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski (consensually), as the representative of the lead committee, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 23 February (consensually), to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (also consensually). As the draft was not reached at first reading on 23 February, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed it again on 4 April. It was decided to appoint Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski (consensually) as the representative of the lead committee, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 13 April (also consensually) and to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually).
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U638	Good waitress, you don't have any questions. Okay, I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 520. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U639	We will proceed with our 13th item. This is a draft law amending the Civil Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 543. Maris Lauri, Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U640	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am before you to present a draft amending the Penal Code... I'm sorry! Wrong bill. I've got another one here. Okay. The draft law amending the Civil Service and Unemployment Insurance Act amending the Civil Service Act, which is briefly mentioned by the abbreviation ATS, and the Unemployment Insurance Act. The current ATS entered into force on 1 April 2013. Thus, this law has been in force for nine years and it took many years to reach this draft. It is understandable that many of the solutions that exist in this law have proven to be obsolete in practice and have also created certain problems which are now increasingly perceived. During the preparation of the draft act, the question also arose as to whether the regulation of the public service should be reviewed as a whole, but no fundamental changes were made to this draft. The reason is that fundamental changes definitely need a wider debate, and that also means a longer debate, and certainly will not be able to do so in a few months. The amendments proposed by this draft are indeed the most practical problems that have arisen. So certainly, as I said, it is worth looking at the subject more widely in the future. The most critical part of the ATS has been the organisation of competitions. According to the Civil Service Act, posts can be filled by open competition and, in certain justified cases, internal competitions can also be carried out. In particular, competitions have indicated that they are often time-consuming, rigid and bureaucratic. The draft therefore proposes a number of changes that would make this process somewhat more flexible. Firstly, when a temporarily absent official, such as someone on parental leave, states that he will not return to his post. Since the person who applies to him or her has been found to be in a public competition, it is not necessary to organise a new competition in cases where it is established that the person who carries out his or her post on a temporary or fixed-term basis [may continue to work], since he or she already holds the post. What is important is that the skills of this replacement and the work he has done indicate that he really can handle this position, and it can be assumed that if there was a competition and he was involved in it, he would probably be successful. His work so far must show that he is really well suited to this profession. The second option that will be created is the possibility to cancel a competition in a situation where there has been a recent competition with several strong candidates in the administration, and now the authority needs to re-enlist a person in a similar position. It is important, however, that no more than 150 calendar days have passed since the competition and that this initial competition must have a ranking, which can be chosen from among the best three. They can be used, but they don't have to be used. It must always be taken into account that the best possible candidate is appointed for the post. A public competition may therefore be organised at any time and, where justified, an internal competition may also be organised. The draft act also complements the Civil Service Act with a regulation according to which the term of the competition will be suspended by the time the condition for appointment is established. Such an addition is necessary in a situation where, for example, a state secret authorisation is required for taking up a post, but may not be obtained within 120 calendar days of failure of the prescribed competition. And if this authorisation has not been obtained, then the competition may have to be declared unsuccessful under the current regulation and the competition has to be re-established. Another amendment creates the possibility that a partial transfer to another post or another authority may be made by a deadline to be fixed by the official. In this case, it is possible for a person to go on a so-called full-time basis, but now there is a possibility that they will be employed in another institution, and these transfers will also be time-limited. In addition, the Civil Service Act is complemented by a regulation that currently exists in the External Action Service Act and applies only to foreign servants. This is a situation in which an official dies or dies while performing his duties abroad, for [other reason]. In such a situation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will arrange to bring dust to Estonia at the expense of the state, if the reimbursement of this cost is not due, for example, to the insurance contract. One amendment to the draft stipulates that the Minister may authorise the establishment of the Ministry's salary guide to the Chancellor. In addition, the Minister is given the opportunity to authorise the establishment of a salary guide for a government agency to the head of a government agency. So far, only the Minister has the right to establish a salary guide. The amendment increases the rights of the head of the governing authority and the Chancellors, but it is a ministerial decision whether or not he wishes to sub-delegate the introduction of a salary guide. It is not mandatory, but one of the possibilities. One amendment to the draft also concerns the right of an official to call for redundancy, in a situation where the position is changed, leading to a change of place of residence or an unreasonable amount of time and money. The amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act provides a basis for equal treatment of employees and officials in situations where the person is unlawfully released. Under the current regulation, a contract staff member is entitled to unemployment benefit in such a case, but the official does not. This unequal treatment shall be discontinued. The law is intended to enter into force in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U641	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U642	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. However, I do not understand why this law still needs to be amended. In the sense that a competition can also be organised without excessive bureaucracy and time saving, within a reasonable time, if you wish. We do not need to make these things so bureaucratic; it can be done sensibly. Do you really need to change the law about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U643	Thank you. The Civil Service Act defines very precisely how competitions must be organised. It has its own procedure, its own deadlines, which makes it long-term unlike the private sector, where things can really be arranged faster. For example, this change in the situation where there is, as I explained, a competition and then it turns out that it is necessary to find an employee after a while to find a similar job or to find a person who meets the requirements of the competition that has just taken place. Why make a new competition when there were very good candidates in the [new] competition? You could take one of those strong candidates instead of a new competition. It must also be understood that if, for example, there are several successive competitions in which people with similar conditions are sought, potential candidates may not always know exactly what circumstances the competition is going to be re-opened. They may think that the competition failed or that there are some special conditions. Some people again refuse to compete in such a situation, even though they have just participated in the previous competition and, for example, have proved to be second in line. If there is exactly an analogous or very similar job opportunity, then this person could get this job instead of making a new competition where this person might not apply again. The new competition takes a lot of time and paperwork and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U644	Now, please ask a question, Paul Pulpland!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U645	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm going to look at the explanatory statement. We know that civil law is essentially dispositive, and it provides an opportunity for a creative approach to civil law relations. The situation is slightly different with regard to public law. As far as public law is concerned, it is assumed that things are written as accurately as possible. And the aim of this is to keep matters as precise as possible, to avoid precisely this so-called creative attitude, so as not to give rise to maladministration by officials. And now I'm reading in this explanatory memorandum that the amendment of ATS has meant that it's not reasonable to write down regulation in very detailed terms, because the more detailed the regulation, the more likely it is that there is a need to change the law again. Thus, greater freedoms will be granted, greater creativity will be allowed. What are you doing to prevent this threat from becoming arbitrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U646	Thank you. After all, any regulation must be reasonable in terms of both coercion and freedom. I guess it is now understood that the limits that have entered into force in 2013 and in the important [defined], I do not remember now, perhaps at the time of the adoption of 2011 or 2012, it might have seemed that the rules had to be more rigid. It has now been recognised in practice that the rules have been too rigid, they need to be slightly relaxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U647	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U648	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for your previous answer, but I would like to ask if you agree that if we think about performance, maybe we should change some other law that generalises more laws and makes things less bureaucratic. Laws are made by people and laws are changed by people, this one law is not quite dogma.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U649	Thank you. It is a public service law that deals with aspects relating to the public service. It is clear that the rules agreed upon here apply to civil servants. There are general contract rules, which generally apply to the labour market, but those rules are not exactly the case in the public service. It's like a special law in that sense. Certainly this is one option, and perhaps it is worth discussing whether the public service needs any special rules in contrast to the normal contractual relationship. It certainly has pros and cons.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U650	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U651	Thank you very much, Mr President. Here I have a further question, Minister, precisely as a result of the previous response. Can it be understood that the government has taken a fundamental trend towards the liberalisation of the regulation of public law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U652	Thank you. I would not call this draft revision because it really deals with relatively narrow issues that have arisen in practice. It would be bold to talk about the revision when we are discussing major and fundamental issues that are not the subject of this draft. And surely the question is also that, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, perhaps it would be time for us in society to discuss whether fundamental changes are needed. And the truth is, if some regulations are too rigid and they are a little relaxed, then in a sense, liberalisation is involved. You could call it that.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U653	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U654	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Let us now look at this point, which states that a competition may not be organised if an official who is temporarily absent has declared that he will not return to his post, and there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is appropriate to appoint an official who has so far performed the duties of office for an indefinite period of time in a vacant post, and so on. Does it not seem to you that it still reduces transparency and raises doubts about whether these processes have been conducted honestly and correctly? It's no secret that there's always such an atmosphere in society, that it's definitely chosen somehow through acquaintances and doesn't know if it's fair. Now that we are looking at the fact that we are no longer obliged to conduct competitions that are unambiguous and honest, are we not creating more mistrust of the transparency and honesty of this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U655	Thank you. I certainly do not think that the prevailing opinion in society is that all competitions are unfair, considered and planned. It cannot be ruled out that these are happening, but having been in very different competitions myself and seen them side by side, I have never met any of these in the public sector. It may well be in the private sector, where there is no such precise regulation. When we talk about a situation where a person has been taken into fixed-term employment to replace someone who has gone on parental leave, for example, and states in a year's time that he will not return to this institution, even though the contract has been concluded on a fixed-term basis, maybe for a year and a half or three years at first, then firstly, surely the person who has filled this place in, for example, a year has shown whether he can do the job, how well he can do the job. If he really does do it well and he's done it, then there's an opportunity not to do it again. But it's not imperative to say no competition. If there is an understanding that it is possible to become a better person, or there is a hope that it is possible to become a better person, then it is always possible to make a competition. Personally, I believe that everything must be done in public, and if there is a call for competition, it is advisable to do so. However, there are certainly situations in which it is not reasonable to make a competition because of other circumstances, such as rationality. However, in this case, the arguments must also explain why such a path is chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U656	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U657	Thank you. Madam Minister of Justice! At present, dismissal from the public service in the event of disciplinary action can take place if a person does not perform his or her duties correctly or properly. In the case of the Employment Contract Act, this is the same, there are several grounds: if a person is drunk at work or has ignored the employer's orders or has damaged the employer's property and so on. Do you support the fact that the draft law complements both the contract of employment and the amendment to the Civil Service Act in that the employer may exceptionally terminate the contract of employment or the civil service employer may be relieved from the public service if the person in a service relationship or in an employment relationship supports or justifies the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U658	Thank you. There is no doubt that you have the right to propose such an amendment to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U659	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U660	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Well, the deep state has been spoken of, but Rein Lang has used [abbreviation] ABS, an administrative bureaucratic system. This is the officials who feel free and well and are in place for a long time and take into account that politicians come and go. And I'm asking now. It is stated in this explanatory memorandum that, in order to guarantee the independence of an official, this basic mechanism is the appointment of an official for an indefinite period of time. That's what gives him that kind of independence. How can it now be brought together with this Rein Lang [used] ABS, an administrative bureaucratic system who lives his life and looks completely different to politicians, to you too?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U661	I certainly do not know how to link the circumstances you have brought to me in the way you have just done. That's why I can't comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U662	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U663	Thank you. I have the right to propose amendments for the purposes set out in the previous question. But I would make this amendment if I knew that the initiator was willing to support it. As your initiator, are you prepared to support the amendment in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U664	If you put forward this amendment nicely, along with the justification I am examining, I can also make my decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U665	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U666	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is obvious that, by amending this law, you would like to so-called anchor the food chains of your supporters and employ those you would like to take on. It doesn't matter that it's an open competition. The institution also employs persons working under a contract of employment who can, in any way, be put on a fictitious list that you want to see in the post of [a competition]. Why do you want to break up the traditional Civil Service Act, which also has the opportunity to come with fresh blood, young people with new views, who could have these positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U667	Thank you. I'm having a hard time understanding your mind structure. I explained the purpose of this law and the changes. This does not change the fact that people in public service have to go through a competition. You may not be very familiar, but I, as a minister of competitions, will only make choices for very limited top executives, for whom I have the power of decision. The rest follow very different procedures. And, by the way, when selecting top executives, these people go through the senior public office selection committee, which assesses their suitability. So your talk about some chains, in my opinion, simply points to your very mistaken perception of the Estonian public service.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U668	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U669	Thank you. You say you don't understand my mind. I'm saying again that I don't understand your mind. Your answer was neither fluent nor smooth. Clearly, this bill creates a circular protection that allows people with their views to create a food chain that supports you. Why are you still breaking the traditional law that has been in operation since the beginning of the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U670	Thank you. Once again, I will try to make it clearer: this law does not break the current system. This law does not create any food chain. All I can tell you is that perhaps you would read this bill properly and try to think about it without prejudice and without building a certain political agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U671	No more questions for the waitress. We can go to the co-report. I call on Marko Storm, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U672	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Very honourable Minister! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will give a more general overview of what took place when we addressed this issue at the committee meeting. And since the Minister was, as usual, very thorough, I believe that it makes no sense to read the minutes. Despite all the relevant questions that were currently being heard, I did not understand that we had some very different world-view ideas on the subject at the Commission's meeting. Yes, the procedural decisions to which I refer afterwards were not consensual, but if I were to sum up a single denominator, it is indeed a very limited decision-making position in the public service law. One could say that we are making the system more flexible, leaving it as transparent as it has been so far. Since a number of questions focused on why we are changing the way we have been organising competitions so far, I will go over this once again. As the Minister actually replied exhaustively, no one takes away the right to organise a competition from the head of the institution under the law. [The competition may not be organised], but under certain conditions, as already indicated. For example, if an official on parental leave has already actually been recruited by a competition, once he or she has become aware that a person on maternity leave does not wish to return, this person could be given the opportunity to continue this employment relationship or the public service relationship in the event of a well-founded [case] situation without an additional new competition. It seems reasonable and reasonable to me as a member of the Commission. And once again, no one says there can be no competition, it can continue to be announced. One important change was that, if more than one very strong candidate has emerged in the competitions that have already taken place, then, in fact, in the case of new competitions with similar professional requirements, the recruitment of other people who have been noticed may be considered in the public service, under certain conditions of course. A number of questions were raised in the Commission's meeting, such as how [of those who were not elected], but were for example the first three candidates; this option could be applied without an additional competition. In practice, it also depends a little on whether it is a smaller or larger organisation, but such a form, so to speak, is considered to be a good practice. On this basis, a person may be recruited by reference to the results of previous competitions. Reference to the External Action Service Act also. There was a change in the fact that the state can assume the costs of bringing the person in service to Estonia, unless it is covered by an insurance contract. So far, we don't have it fixed like this. Perhaps one of the most important changes is where ATS is equalized by the law on employment contracts in relation to unemployment benefit in the event of redundancy, which a person could previously claim in the contract of employment, but to my surprise, the official did not. The questions, as has already been said, were mostly in style or about how the best choices that the head of the institution would be able to involve once again in taking people into service should be fixed. Answers were received. And there were maybe some issues of a more technical nature. Kalle Grünthal had a question of a similar nature, which was already referred to here. He referred to possible risks in that, if we take people into public service and also into an employment relationship, whether these transfers from a so-called contractual relationship to a public service are possible, even without complying with additional regulations. The Commission meeting provided exhaustive answers that there are two different grounds and this is not the case. There was no final consensus on procedural decisions, as I said. The consensus was on the identity of the rapporteur, but otherwise the proposal to put the draft on today's agenda for discussion with a ratio of 6 to 2 was put on the agenda. Against were the gentlemen of Puustusmaa and Grünthal, by Kivimägi, Loone, Mölder, Odines, Storm and the Gridship. The completion of the first reading was by Kivimägi, Loone, Mölder, Odines, Storm and Võrguship, against Grünthal and Puustusmaa. Ladies and gentlemen, that is all for me at the moment. Ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U673	They ask. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U674	Good manager! Dear waitress, It is said that nepotism decreases and that the acquaintances can and fictitious competitions... And here's a long explanation that the effect concerns 40837 individuals. But can we give more details on the number of fictitious competitions in which nepotism was implemented? It has been said that there is an impact, but it has not been said how great this impact could be, that now this draft has a nepotism policy that is shrinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U675	Thanks for the question! The question of tonality once or again occurred at the committee meeting, according to my memory. But there were no direct references or ratios or numbers. I think that's actually impossible for you to understand. Continuing: it is my personal view that this does not really increase nepotism, rather the contrary, makes matters more sensible. And it's not gonna take much to see how things work out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U676	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U677	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! On the coordination page, we find one interesting comment where the Cities and Communities have proposed to the Government, in the course of the coordination of the draft, that local governments, or rather local councils, should be given the right to approve these posts, which have a five-year term of office. And it has been answered that it has been noted. Period. And it has not even been clarified whether there was a debate on this in the Commission. Why, then, is there no explanation as to whether or not consideration has been taken into account? And what does this 'informed' mean from the Commission's point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U678	Honourable questioner, the question is quite pertinent, but indeed it was not addressed in the Commission. I believe that in this process we will also have an answer to this. You can handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U679	No further questions. Thank you. It is now possible to open negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 543 be completed. We do not have any other competing proposals here, so the first reading is closed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U680	We can move on to the 14th item, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 576, is a first reading. Maris Lauri, the Minister of Justice, will be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U681	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure (supporting aggression and related hostilities). The draft was sent to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic with three fundamental changes, but the Committee on Legal Affairs sent the draft as amended, which is why the draft now deals with two fundamental changes. The first amendment provides for participation in the act of aggression or in its preparation as a criminal offence, and in this connection, Estonia's jurisdiction is also extended in the case of acts committed abroad. This means amendments to § 911 of the Penal Code, respectively, when a new crime formation is created and § 7 (2) is supplemented by section 3. The addition of paragraph 911 creates the possibility of penalising the imminent physical or material support, including funding, of the foreign armed forces or other armed forces involved in the act of aggression, participation in the commission or preparation of the act of aggression or the act of aggression, knowingly, by imprisonment of up to five years. The point of this section is that it will be punished by joining the armed forces of the aggressor or some other armed forces, not even armies, such as state armies, but also private armies, security companies, but also by cooperating with or supporting such aggressor associations or forces, for example, financially or through training or in any other way. This section must be applied in the absence of the offence set out in § 91, or § 91 deals with the punishment of an aggression crime, the management of an act of aggression, the execution of an act of aggression, and it concerns, in particular, the leading persons. Paragraph 911 directs the so-called lower-level players to this and deals with the participation of people by Estonia in the act of aggression. Penalty pursuant to §911 does not preclude the punishment being imposed for other crimes committed in the framework of an act of aggression, in particular war crimes. Since aggression may be committed outside Estonia, the possibility of supplementing § 7 (2) by paragraph 3 is created to punish persons who were citizens of the Republic of Estonia at the time of the act, persons with a residence permit or right of residence in Estonia or legal persons registered in Estonia. The second fundamental change. The justification of an international crime, including by means of symbols, is made punishable as a misdemeanour, i.e. a new paragraph is created, § 1511. More specifically, public display of the symbol used to commit an act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or war crime is provided for as a misdemeanour in order to support or justify such acts or to intimidate, humiliate or otherwise seriously disturb another person. The penalties shall be set at a maximum of 300 daily penalty units or arrests for natural persons and a maximum of EUR 32000 for legal persons. An act of aggression, genocide, a crime against humanity or a war crime need not be determined by judgment. These are international crimes, which are international because they are characterised by the fact that they are so-called "world crimes," which are dangerous to the whole of humanity and which are criminalised by the principles of international law. In drawing up the draft, a list of specific symbols was waived. On the one hand, the formation and design of symbols can be a very fast process, one symbol can be replaced by another, so creating a closed list may not be a result. This is also demonstrated by the formation of letter Z as a symbol of Russia's current military aggression. In fact, we cannot rule out at this point that V and O. I myself have observed in video material that the letter "V" is often used in the same position. On the other hand, the message of the symbol depends on the context in which and how it is used. The symbol does not have to have been used directly to commit the crimes mentioned above, but it may have been used, for example, as a definition of the perpetrator's affiliation, as an identity-formator or as a vagina. Public exposure means that it is made visible in public, but not necessarily in public. It can also take place online. The purpose of displaying the symbol may be twofold: to support or justify these crimes, but also to intimidate, humiliate or otherwise significantly disturb another person. This means that exhibiting not every symbol would be punishable. As a proposal, the part of the draft relating to symbols would enter into force within three days of the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the State. I am also talking about this proposal, which was in the draft submitted by the government, but which was not included in the draft decision by the Committee on Legal Affairs. This proposal concerned the offence of incitement to hatred, or § 151 of the Penal Code. More specifically, it was proposed to eliminate the consequence of the misdemeanour of incitement to hatred, i.e. the threat to a person's life, health or property, but if such consequences had occurred, it would be a criminal offence. I am personally sorry that the Riigikogu found that such changes are not necessary. One could have expected that the connection between what has actually happened in Russia for more than ten years and the direct military aggression against Ukraine will open the eyes of the people in Estonia as well. I know it's happened to a lot of people, but probably not enough. I will once again explain the reasons for this proposal. Firstly, an act of aggression, genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes can be justified and supported not only by symbols but also by words. When we look at what has happened, the words are much more used and they are also more aggressive. Words are not covered by War propaganda § 92. These crimes are often related to war, but they may not be related to war propaganda. Secondly, words make it much easier to scare, humiliate and disturb people. And, unfortunately, they are also more effective. Thirdly, incitement to hatred involves a large amount of false, even absurd, views, which may result in their initial ridicule and underestimation of its consequences. Words build up and work for a long time. They can be more difficult to identify than symbols that are very visible. The use of words reaches where Russia has reached in relation to Ukraine and the Ukrainians, declaring the Ukrainians a non-existent nation and a non-existent state of Ukraine. With the use of words, Russia has reached the point of justifying genocide without any symbols being used in advance. The symbols came later. We can't subtract symbols from words. Usually, during the design phase of symbols and the aggressive use of symbols, an aggressive, frightening and humiliating word is also important. Perhaps it is more dangerous to wield a symbol than to use words? In the case of words, we assume that there is a consequence where there is a danger to the life, health and property of a person, but in the case of symbols, we are also prepared to ban even if they are only justified or intimidated. I hope the Riigikogu finds time to think. And if not within the framework of this bill, we will soon be ready to be honest and open in the debate on where there is the limit of freedom of expression, what must be done if this limit is exceeded. After all, crossing the boundaries of symbolism, or mentality, is already prepared to intervene with the power of law in our society. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U682	And now there are questions for the Minister. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U683	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I read here bill 576, and 556 which is the next point. Both draft laws have been passed through the Committee on Legal Affairs; for both, the decision to terminate the first reading is a decision. I look at these draft laws and it seems like the objective is similar. Couldn't they have been dealt with as one bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U684	Thank you. As far as I know, the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided that these drafts will be merged.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U685	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U686	Good manager! Yes, the letter "Z" has not been highlighted here, but in Ukraine, war vehicles have other letters: the letter "V" and the letter "O" and special forces have the letter "A" and the letter "X" as well, except for Ukraine. It says here that if these letters or symbols can scare, humiliate, or otherwise seriously disturb someone. Who's gonna fix this? For example, Z won't have a problem in one month. But there are other letters, even the same as V, O, X and A, which can also be quite freely used in another context.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U687	Thank you. There was a debate on this in the drafting and also in the Commission. I do not rule out at all that, for reasons of clarity, the wording of the draft has to be clarified, as the preparation process was rather rapid. Since the police are implementing their amendment, the Police and Border Guard Board also discussed how they would see it and how they would interpret it. Inevitably, the spread of the symbol and the general context need to be looked at. It wasn't just February 24 that this Z was effective, but it took a few days. If it spreads more, if it is used more, and certainly in the form of how it is used, then the symbol will bear its meaning. And then, of course, when this symbol is widely used. We've seen people put this symbol on their car. This is already a conscious step, because it is probably not usually the Z-star on the car in Estonia, or it is not usually just a Z, especially if it is in the colours of Georgi's tape. This depends on all the contexts in which one or the other symbol is used. But in the case of a symbol, the way society perceives it is also important. When we talk about Z, Georgi's tape, they are certainly in many other countries in Estonia today, but we are talking about Estonia now, they are threatening, they are carrying a certain message. The "V" is starting to spread, and he probably doesn't have that kind of scary influence yet, but maybe tomorrow-the day after tomorrow he already does. The letter "A' and others, which have not been used in this context so far, do not yet have [war] implications. But if at one point they're going to have a meaning that they're the bearers of military aggression, then the police will definitely have to intervene. The draft has been drawn up with this idea and with this wording, or at least with an attempt to have a wording that would give us the opportunity to react when these symbols change, change or come up with something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U688	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U689	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! The government has approached the problem of Russia's brutal military aggression in Ukraine and, as a result, certain symbols and justification of war. Personally, I even like it, this broad approach, because at last there is also an equal sign drawn for the Soviet Union's criminal symbolism and an equal mark placed with Nazi Germany. It is right in this sense, and I hope that the government will do so. But the problem is, the police turned to concern that they needed legal clarity by 9 May. And here's my question: do you think this legal clarity will now come through it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U690	Thank you. Yeah, I really like that you also noticed one aspect of this broad wording. Indeed, it can also be held responsible for the use of other symbols, including pentagons and swastikas, if they fulfil these conditions. We had, like I said, a discussion with the police, and the police leaders at different levels said they needed that kind of weapon or remedy. He leaves a certain margin of discretion, but I would point out that in very many other situations, the police are obliged to assess the circumstances, for example in traffic situations, which form of intervention to take. There are situations in which a person needs to have a conversation, just point out that his or her conduct is inappropriate. There are situations in which a person must be fined and there are certainly situations in which detention is to be imposed. In particular, we have not brought criminal sanctions on this subject at this stage; they are already intended for more serious acts. I think the police can handle it. However, the practical application of this law will also be made clear a little. We were in contact with Latvia and Lithuania. Lithuania has a list of specific symbols, and they have admitted in their conversations that this is not the best solution. The solution of Estonia and Latvia, our proposed solution is more convenient, but they must now put these [symbols] in it all the time, right: there will be a new one, start putting it again. In Latvia, an analogous law has been passed several years ago and they said that it was a so-called set-down in a few years. We certainly hope that we can do this sooner, perhaps the current situation will help. I can assure you that the government and very many different government agencies are doing a lot of work to explain what the symbols that should not and should not be used in these times are.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U691	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U692	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Minister! According to the draft law, the Penal Code is supplemented by a provision whereby the act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or the symbol used to commit war crimes can be punished for public exposure. This provision does allow for a very broad interpretation. I could give you and Mr Hepner a number of cartoon examples, but I'd rather not bring them right now. At the same time, at the end of March, a person was detained in Tallinn who disturbed the people of Tallinn with the military symbolism. He drew the "Z" in the air. The court sentenced a man who violated public order to ten days in detention. The question is: why is this new provision, which is huge in scope and allows for cartoon interpretations, necessary if we can already punish Russia for exhibiting symbols linked to aggression?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U693	Thank you. The act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or war crime are very clearly defined in the Penal Code and are also concepts defined in international law, so there is no room for infinitely broad treatment here. As regards whether it is possible to apply one section or another, in the case of the Law Enforcement Act, we also discussed the fact that, suddenly, improvements should be made to the Law Enforcement Act and the Penal Code should not be supplemented. But after various discussions, we came to the conclusion that it was precisely the amendment of the Penal Code that was the right way and the better way, and the police also found it more appropriate. Certainly, in the Penal Code, the section that was used there also has its own possibilities, as well as its own shortcomings, which would be covered by this bill and the crime formation created by it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U694	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U695	Thank you. My question is similarly about the composition that will be created, as stated in § 1511. Would you please explain a little more about what this individual legal benefit is protected by the formation that is being created, and what is the damage that is precisely being avoided? If we look at today's Estonian society, we see that support for crimes against humanity, support for genocide, support for war crimes and the justification of war crimes are all very widely condemned in society. It is obvious that Estonian society is reacting to this. Is this obvious condemnation as a social control mechanism not enough? Why is it necessary to add more criminal legislation when we actually see our society succeeding?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U696	Thank you. It would certainly be very nice if people were to act rationally always and in every situation, and we did not need to impose different penalties at all and think about what could happen in the case of one crime or another, how to react to it. Unfortunately, there are people who are mostly law-abiding, but there are people who are not. There are people who are obedient only because they know that there is a risk of punishment. Some people are law-abiding even if they have been punished. I would really like people to act rationally and not to punish them. But unfortunately, life shows that these paragraphs are needed. There are also quite a number of articles in the current Penal Code that, fortunately, we have never had to implement. Maybe that's what happens to this section. But then he has a general preventive effect. So in that case, too, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U697	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U698	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This law amendment that you want to introduce here for public display, we already have in the Penal Code. This is § 92, War propaganda. So you're doing, I don't know, the weird thing here. The question now is this: the general principle of penal law is that what is prohibited is prohibited. And if you're talking about the public display of this symbol, there's a police discretion here, who appreciates, looks at the situation, and so on, I understand that. But that's not the question. The standards are set so that the ordinary citizen to whom it is applied can understand where the limits are, when he may use this symbol. And there must be a clear defined line that a person can do. You have never said that sentence in which situation a person understands the meaning of the symbol and when the police will punish him. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] There's no clarity here. Tell me, why can't a common citizen understand this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U699	Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U700	Thank you. I have already pointed out in my report that the paragraph of war propaganda, § 92, does not cover the justification or support of an act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity or war crime. They're related to the war. Yes, often, but not always. And once again, it doesn't cover this war propaganda section. Often, yes. And even now we can say that there is coverage in the case of Russia's military aggression, but not always. So that's why this paragraph has been brought here. As far as understanding and boundaries are concerned, that is where explaining and justification is required. Indeed, we can also write a paragraph that this, the second and the third must not be done, and if you do, you will be punished. But in the case of symbols, it is very difficult to define unambiguously that one or the other symbol is acceptable in this and in this context and not acceptable in another context. You may remember, but Estonia has previously tried to ban symbols of communism and Nazism. It didn't work. Disputes became widespread and asked what would happen if [the symbol] was in a theatre show or in a movie. What do we do if there's a pentagon on one of the works of art? What happens if, for example, there is a pentagon on the flag of another country? And so on and so forth. Maybe there were other arguments. So, in my opinion, this solution is better than going to this discussion that once failed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U701	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U702	Thank you, good manager. Madam Secretary! Your repeated attempts to criminalize hate speech are doomed to fail, and so is this bill. You had to take out that section that you wanted to criminalize hate speech. You could have been politely silent about this, admitting your own mistake, that this section should not have been put in there at all, but no, you began to justify it, that you should have banned hate speech, and words are bad and so on. I would point out that you have previously said such words as a reason for refusing hate speech: "Although I have the feeling that some people in the Riigikogu have a personal question. His personal discourse may also come under this paragraph. This may also be the reason why people are opposed to it. " Those are your words, Madam Secretary. Please tell me directly whose personal hate speech has gotten in your way, that you want to criminalize it. Personally, is this, for example, the current chair, Martin Helme, the colleague, Kalle Grünthal? Give it to me straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U703	Thank you. First of all, I will make a clarification: this section was decided to be taken out by the Committee on Legal Affairs. As I pointed out in my speech, I think it was not a good idea, and I also explained why it would be necessary to address this issue. It is still surprising to me that it is difficult to understand that words and deeds go together. Also, the words that have been going on now, I think, very well and very widely in the media, in the words of Russia on social media, and in the effect of how military aggression has been achieved in Ukraine, how it is said that the Ukrainian people must be destroyed, that it is not the right people. So these are words, and these are evil words, words of anger. If you find such words acceptable, it is your right to think so. But I think that such words should not have a place and we should never, I hope, really, start talking like that in Estonia. But if you think such a way of speaking and such talk is acceptable, it is your freedom, above all, when you are here. Really, you're free to do this right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U704	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U705	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm a little confused now. On the basis of your report, I will follow. We were talking about the introduction of clauses 911 and 1511 into the Penal Code. Understood. You explained that one is like bigger and more important people, the other is for smaller people. And then you said in your speech that, in the case of this aggression or crime, the court's conviction is not necessary, you stressed it. Now here's the question. Paragraph 22 of the current Constitution states that no one must be held guilty without a judgment, and § 15 states that any act contrary to the Constitution is repealed. How do you explain this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U706	Thank you. I'm just saying that I was talking about § 91 and § 911. Paragraph 91 specifically concerns those persons who organise an act of aggression. But § 911 goes on to join or support an aggression crime. Indeed, the question may arise that if the act of aggression has not been proven judicially, can it not be punished for joining the crime of aggression? I would like to remind you that the prosecution of an aggression crime usually requires the heads of state to be held accountable. And the prosecution of state leaders is usually carried out by an international court. It is a very long and long-lasting process. This is a situation in which we can see that aggression is taking place, the signs are all there, but because there is no judgment, for example because the leaders of the aggressor state are not being caught in order to bring them to justice, whether, in this case, support for the crime of aggression remains unpunished. So I think that if there are signs that are consistent with the fact that an act of aggression has been committed, that is, by the way, § 91 (3) of the Penal Code, and there is a common understanding of that, then we can also be punished for joining this act of aggression.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U707	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U708	Thank you. Dear Minister, § 1 of the draft law reads as follows: "In the absence of the offence provided for in § 91 of this Code, participation in the commission or preparation of a foreign act of aggression or knowingly direct support, including financing, of a foreign act of aggression, shall be punishable by a term of imprisonment of up to five years. " My question is: will it extend to young Russian citizens who live in Estonia and are going to do their civic duty in military service to the Russian armed forces? If not, why did the government submit such a draft? What are the reasons that these young men, citizens who go to Russian military service, are not covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U709	Thank you. This section extends to persons who were at the time when the act was committed, that is, when they went to do it, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, they had a residence permit or right of residence in Estonia. So it is as if we are punishing a Russian citizen who has a residence permit for Estonia. But I think the easier way to punish this person is by not letting him back from the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U710	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U711	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Yes, incitement to hatred has been scraped out of here by the Commission, but you, I understand, have a pain in your soul. When will you come before us with the sections of this draft hate speech? Do you have a plan? Before Midsummer or after?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U712	Thank you. As I said in my speech, I hope that the Riigikogu will understand the need for these changes and come to it as soon as possible. If this feeling exists, it is possible to come by the government with it as well as by the Riigikogu itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U713	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U714	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I very much hope that the Riigikogu will be able to maintain common sense and will not make Estonia such a homemade Nazi state. But you are, of course, on the wrong path, if you think you can disable the symbols. You can't disable symbols. The symbols are in people's minds, and they can't even be banned by the Ministry of Justice. You mentioned joining the armed forces. My question is: will a citizen of the Republic of Estonia who, for example, joins a company like Blackwater automatically become a potential criminal?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U715	Thank you. First of all, I would point out that this draft does not intend to ban symbols, but that it is intended to punish the use of certain symbols in a certain way. It's a completely different thing. If a person joins an organisation, whatever name he or she owns or how he or she is subject to, he or she is a private or public authority, a state armed force, and that organisation is engaged in an act of aggression, that [person] is punished for participating in it. Depends specifically on the organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U716	Anastassia Kovalenko-Kõlvart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U717	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As you yourself mentioned, this draft provides a relatively broad margin of discretion in terms of symbolism. Do you not see yourself in a situation where it is being abused and disproportionately wasted by police resources? Several experts in criminal law have also pointed out that this could lead to a large number of criminal proceedings and disproportionately spend procedural resources. Is there such a danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U718	Thank you. I would point out that this is a criminal offence, so there will certainly not be criminal proceedings here. Secondly, I think that the police, who are able to adequately assess when to intervene, in what way to intervene, and who are using precisely those measures that are appropriate. As I said, the first step is always verbal, i.e. talking to a person, e.g. pointing out that using one or another symbol in a certain context is not a very good idea, it does not make sense, it can really upset people, this symbol has a certain aggressive meaning. If a person does not understand this, there will be a fine, then there will be an increase in the fine, and finally there will be a possibility of detention. It all depends on how a person behaves, depending on the context in which the police responds. I have seen that our Estonian police officers are very professional and certainly, when making this amendment to the law, they will think very carefully about how to implement it, in which cases and how to react in one or another situation. All the more so because the Riigikogu really does, at least the Commission, have a desire to process this bill quickly, and if that is really the case, it must also be implemented quite quickly. So it will certainly be very carefully thought out how to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U719	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U720	Thank you. Madam Secretary! I'm very sorry that you didn't explain the legal benefits that this formation will protect and the damage that will prevent exactly, but that's okay. Perhaps you could explain the technical issues that arise from this wording. This is the purpose of using the same symbol. How have you ever imagined it to be established? For example, if a person walks the street, has a swastika in his chest, on an empty street, say there are no other people, they ask him why he does it, he says, uh, it's just a beautiful thing. Or he says: "My grandfather passed on to me, and I will carry it in remembrance of him. " Is that enough to prove his peaceful purpose? Or for example, let's say, a person has an orange-black band. How does he prove the scarf is just a scarf? And is there no danger that it will be easier for Estonians than for people of other nationalities? And if it is that people of another nation are being questioned more, doesn't it raise constitutional questions? And also, let's say, when we're talking about genocide, the act of aggression, the Armenian genocide in 1915/1919, are we finally saying in this law that yes, it was genocide? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Yes, the signs used in this genocide are also, can they also be [a symbol of aggression]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U721	Oudekki, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U722	Thank you. Indeed, the way this symbol is used, or how it is used, or what its purpose is, is revealed in many nuanced circumstances. If you gave an example of a scarf in the colors of Georgi's tape that a person puts it around his neck, he might not really notice that these color combinations are like this or he doesn't associate with it right now. But if he goes into the street with it and it is very clearly seen, then it may happen that they come to him and they say that you have noticed [it] and that it may offend and irritate some people. I suppose if a person has done this out of ignorance, he's gonna react or, well, he's gonna hide that scarf. A very clear provocative behaviour is when this scarf is deliberately put out in plain sight and, for example, goes to pat at the residence of Ukrainian refugees. It is very clear that it is intended to be demonstrated, that it is intended to receive attention and that it has a different purpose. Obviously, it also affects different symbols. For example, if a Jewish funeral or commemoration is taking place in a cemetery and the swastika is clearly patted there, it is likely to be done deliberately with the desire to irritate and offend people. So there's no argument. As for Armenian genocide, this law does not declare or say that it was Armenian genocide. I really don't know if there's a symbol that characterizes the genocide and the events that took place there. But if people know the meaning of this symbol, that that is exactly what it means, then it is also possible to punish this symbol. For example, when we talk about Rwanda or any other such situation, we probably do not know what the symbol was for events in Rwanda. It was supposed to be there, but probably for most people in Estonia it doesn't matter. So if someone goes around with it, he probably doesn't provoke anyone right now, and no one's likely to notice it. But if this knowledge comes to people that it means something, if it goes to a place where they have suffered in these events, who understand it very clearly, then it is certainly a provocation and there is a need for punishment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U723	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U724	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Paul Puustusmaa asked you in legal language a question that you, unfortunately, did not understand at all as Minister of Justice. I'll do it again in so-called common language. Your draft stipulates that the act of aggression, genocide and crime against humanity, when symbols are used, is punishable. The question is very simple right now. Since our Penal Code provides for a separate provision of § 91, 90, 89, genocide and crimes against humanity are specifically mentioned, any judge who begins to deal with this symbol and mark will immediately demand a judgment. If you say you don't need it, it's a complete ignorance of the theory of law. So you are now creating dead sections that cannot be dealt with at all because we do not currently have judgments against genocide and crimes against humanity. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U725	Thank you. The fact is that at the moment, we really do not have these penalties, no one has been convicted, for example, of events in Ukraine. We do have clear knowledge of war crimes or other matters committed in Estonia. So, yeah, I guess we'll have to work here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U726	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U727	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This section may trigger a wave of complaints because the monuments placed on the Soviet army justify aggression. They are openly exhibited, justifying genocide, crimes against humanity, shouting that Estonia was occupied. It was fine, it was fair, it was a great patriotic war. You know, it scares me and humiliates me as long as I remember those pentagons when I was a kid. How will you resolve the situation when I and hundreds of other people are suing for this endless humiliation that the occupying army, the army of violence, is full of monuments all over Estonia? Are we gonna do this? Take them away?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U728	Thank you. I would point out that § 1511 imposes penalties on specific persons or legal persons who exhibit or use certain symbols in any way. So if you can define these monuments as the persons who exhibit it and are to be punished, then really this section could be applied. I doubt it can be done with these memorials. Obviously, other principles and other understandings must be applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U729	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U730	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'll come back to that hate speech. Restricting hostile speech does not mean that freedom of expression is lost. It is misleading when it comes to limiting anger. Says Egert Rünne, Head of the Estonian Human Rights Centre. And he also says that angry statements are protected by freedom of expression and the final content of the regulation of hate speech is not foretold to us either from the European Union or from anywhere else, so we are able to discuss socially what is hate speech and what is not. My question to you is: if you come before the Riigikogu next time with this draft hate speech, would we be able to discuss it more in society so that it is understood that all hateful statements probably do not mean hate speech and that freedom of expression is still guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U731	Thank you. There has been a great deal of talk on this subject and a great deal of debate for quite a number of years, and there are different wordings proposed. The original version of this draft, with which the government came, also had a very different wording than the one that has been presented here in recent years. We tried to find a solution that would be as close as possible to the wording of the Constitution. The fact is that § 151 in this case does not comply with the Constitution. I really hope that this appropriate wording will be found and I am always ready to discuss it. These discussions have been interesting. It has indeed been discussed what are the shortcomings of one or the other wording, how can it be understood, what are the strengths? I assure you that no one in any debate has had the desire to silence people, but precisely to create these perceptions that there are limits that cannot be crossed. Perhaps the limits that the Estonian Constitution also speaks of, saying, where it is prohibited and punishable to incite hatred, violence, discrimination. It is very clear that there must be punishment and certain things are forbidden. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U732	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U733	Thank you, good manager. Madam Minister, you once again had the opportunity to distance yourself from all this hate speech and to admit your mistakes in putting this section into law, but you did not, on the contrary, by answering your questions, you made it much worse. You have said before and you have admitted today that you want to criminalise the statements made by members of the Riigikogu. If that's the case, it's really bad. Do you know which country in the world is likely to have the toughest hate speech laws? This is, of course, the Russian Federation. Do you know how many people have been imprisoned there because of the hate speech and extremism paraphrase? These are people who have been dissatisfied to the regime. Why do you want to import into Estonia the totalitarian measures of the Russian regime to silence the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U734	Thank you. I don't know where you're from. To be honest, I am amazed by your stubbornness to impose on me things I haven't said. It is not my desire to criminalise what a person says when he speaks politely and wisely. This draft, the paragraph that the Commission decided not to bring into this Chamber, also pointed out that there is a certain limit to the use of the word, which requires the use of a misdemeanour, i.e. fines. If word use has very serious consequences when people are suffering, then criminal consequences will come into being. I have not wished to [prohibit], and I am not forbidding you to speak here in the Riigikogu as you wish. You have this freedom in this hall, and you're using it with great courage. So keep going, you won't get punished for that. But the question is, would I like to know if you would be embarrassed at this point if you, hypothetically, were to invite people to run the oven, for example, and then someone would pick up and push someone into the oven, would you feel guilty at that point? That's the limit of the evil use of the word.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U735	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U736	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Now I'm talking about what you've been saying today in response to my question. You have outlined a concept such as a common understanding of participation in acts of aggression. A common understanding, of course, I doubt that there is such a legal definition. However, I would point out that Article 22 of the Constitution makes it quite clear, without exception, that no one must be considered guilty until a conviction has come into force. Now, you said that a common understanding would rule this out. Is it really possible to confirm, as your minister, that § 22 of the Constitution can be worded as a common understanding of participation in an act of aggression allows a person to be considered guilty without a judgment?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U737	Thank you. We're talking about an act of aggression, genocide, crime against humanity, war crimes. The war crime really is a very simple person doing a crime. We have heard a great deal about this, for example, what is happening in Ukraine today. There is legal debate about whether or not there is genocide and when crimes against humanity are involved. In one case or another, we dare say that this is very likely to be the case. The act of aggression may be a little easier. The act of aggression is still made by the state or the community. So in your view, in the case of Ukraine, in a situation where Russia has militarily attacked Ukraine, we can only punish people if we have first convicted Russia of aggression in court. It's very difficult to get there. The existence of aggression at international level has also been indicated by the various judicial institutions. Perhaps sometimes it is best not to go into irrational legal ekvilibris, but to assume that there is also a very strong aspect of law in logic and every word, every concept does not always have to be defined to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U738	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U739	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We are talking about punishing a person here, and I read: an act of aggression, genocide, a crime against humanity or a symbol used in the act of war. We have talked mainly about the Z in this context and Georgi's tape. But the very strong symbol of aggression is also the flag of the Russian Federation, it is even stronger than the letter Z or the tape of Georgi. Maybe we should ban it too, because killing machines are currently driving around in Ukraine with the Z-letter and the flags of the Russian Federation. For example, if a person now, as you say, goes demonstrationally and patts the Russian flag dressed in colours or under the window of war refugees with a real flag, how can we punish him if we do not talk about this most evil thing in the context of this law, the flag of the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U740	Thank you. The law makes it very clear that symbols exist and depends on how these symbols are used. It is not listed here that one or the other symbol is disabled. Punishable is the use of one symbol or another for a specific purpose in a particular context. And indeed, if someone catches up and goes with the flag of the Russian Federation to pat the residence of Ukrainian refugees, for example, for obvious provocation purposes, then he can be held accountable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U741	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U742	Thank you. Dear Minister, This bill itself is very problematic, but from your mouth we heard a number of very strange things. For example, at least twice as you mentioned Armenian genocide, by the way. I would remind you that the Estonian state has not called this event genocide, although the Armenians have repeatedly turned to it. Do you not think that such use of words is itself an incitement to hatred and hatred against the Turks and the deputies? I'm sure they've felt that way. Should it be criminalized? Second thing, signs. If we ban some kind of sign, it will create a crowd of ways to change it. In Russia, a swastika is banned, but everywhere it is used in a slightly modified form. If... I'm almost done. If Georgi's tape is made in orange and dark blue, how do you prove that it's Georgi's tape? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U743	Thank you. The subject of Armenian genocide was raised by your colleague Mrs Loone. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, let's just say I know perfectly well the political issues of how to define these events or not. Yeah. So I won't tell you what I think personally, just in case. The fact is that Estonia has not taken a stand on this matter. As far as symbols are concerned, the question here is that symbols can change, they can arise, their use can arise, and that is why the question is always about the context in which they are used and for what purpose they are used. So if Georgi's tape turns into another tape, where one color has been replaced by another, close color, but this tape is still used in the same way or for the same purpose as it is often done in this case, then it has become a new symbol. If it goes into such aggressive use, it aims, for example, to support an act of aggression, to disturb people, to humiliate them, to intimidate them, then it will be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U744	It's a procedure. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U745	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Please calm the Minister. This law has not yet been passed, and he can speak what he thinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U746	He heard. I'm not gonna overdo it. Yes, the law has not yet been passed. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U747	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. What still bothers me is that we began to deal with a serious issue of aggression against Ukraine. Paragraph 911 is a very serious issue here. And you're still putting puttin' pussies on us with that hate speech. Do authoritarianism really have to be combated by the exact same methods? Aren't you afraid you're gonna get the reputation of the censorship minister by going all the time to offer us this rotten egg with different laws? Putin also said that he must speak politely, in his understanding that the way the authorities want it, very politely, and the rest are extremists. They have the law of extremism, we have the law of hate speech that you dream of. I think there is no point in going to Putin's way, waving denacification from morning to night, looking for this Estonian Nazi. What's all this for? These are Putin's actions. Let's stop this Putin thing! Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U748	Thank you. I'm willing not to act like Putin. And I don't think that's what I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U749	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U750	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, With my question, I am dealing with a broader approach to the draft from a pentagon and a swastika. Namely, there is a monument in Pärnu Old Park, erected in 1958 by the Executive Committee of the City of Pärnu, and the words "Honour and fame for the fallen fighters for the freedom of the working people" are written in 1905, 1917, 1925, 1941.1944. And my question to you: will the state itself commit itself to taking such monuments from the public space to where they belong with this bill? It's been tried, but unfortunately, at the same time, this monument is also protected by heritage, and it doesn't work. Does it commit itself to taking such monuments to where they belong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U751	Thank you. This bill does not deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U752	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U753	Thank you. Dear Minister, Here the hall has been constantly asked about specific signs, be they Z-letters or Georgi tapes or monuments. Indeed, the text of the law does not have it written down, and apparently it is not practical, I agree, to start writing specific letters, symbols here. This list cannot be final and also depends on the context. But would it not be reasonable, in much more detail and in more detail, in the explanatory memorandum, to dismantle these matters and, in this case, to mention the current signs and symbols in the context in which we are and where we are adopting this law, so that the will of Parliament, the legislator, can be better relied on later on in the case of litigation? It has also been used in the case law. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U754	Thank you. There is a revised bill in this Chamber, and this explanatory memorandum is considerably less than the draft that came from the Government of the Republic. Various approaches, reasonings, and examples of symbols have been given in a very thorough way. So what can I suggest? We need to look that way, and I expect that maybe in the discussions in the Commission, this will also get to the protocols or somewhere that this understanding will actually come about. The originals, as far as I know, will be preserved, these first versions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U755	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U756	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You answered my question that the provocative symbol, or the flag of the Russian Federation, or the use of the letter Z under the window, for example, will be punished and that is the purpose of this law. Now, before this law is passed, is there no way to punish such an act? Or can it? They've already been punished for the Z under the refugee window. And if so, why do we need this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U757	Thank you. In a practical situation, the police have used the law of order. During the preparation of the draft, we discussed what changes and whether amendments should be made, including improvements, to the law of law and order. The police said that, yes, certainly, it is also necessary to amend the Penal Code. And then, when the bill was about to be completed, it was the case where the law of law was used. We may be able to discuss this, but the police also said that in this case the law on law enforcement should be amended, clarified and supplemented, because, unfortunately, I do not have it at hand in situations where this draft provides for a broader approach than the law on law enforcement, precisely by referring to the different types of crimes for which support is not only for disturbing people, but for supporting them through symbols, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U758	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U759	Thank you. We have had a lot of talk here about words, terms, expressions, interpretations, and genocide. Macron recently said that there is no genocide in Ukraine. In this context, should we perhaps rethink this concept of genocide a little bit? What position should we have in this regard, or could we have in that regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U760	Thank you. There are quite a few indications that Russia has committed genocide on Ukrainian territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U761	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U762	Thank you. Specific questions, Madam Minister. Can the use of the Russian flag in this context also be sanctioned if it is done in a disturbing way and to justify war? Secondly, does the Soviet invasion of Estonian territory in 1944 fall under the act of aggression? Will the Soviet Russia attack on the territory of the Republic of Estonia enter this concept in the War of Independence? Will China's aggression against Tibet go into it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U763	Previously, there was also the question of the Russian flag, and I said that if it was used as aggression and aggressively, then undoubtedly the use of the Russian flag could be punished. The meaning of the wording of the law is to cover the historical events in which Estonia has been a victim of various aggressions. So it covers. As far as aggression, genocide, in farther countries is concerned, the question is always that if there have been some symbols in use and if we know that these symbols have any influence in our society, then their use can also be punished. But the world is great, history is long and has been used with very different symbols. If there has been a symbol on which we have no meaning at the moment in Estonia, then we cannot punish its use. That's the logic of the wording. We do not understand [this symbol]; we may not even know that it is, for example, a symbol associated with aggression.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U764	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U765	Thank you. Well, we all know the People's Republic of China. These [problems] have been the case for the wider public [in front]. But now I'm coming back to these [our symbols]. Let's take a specific example, Narva tank. In 1944 it was set up to commemorate General Fedjuninski's operation, I checked, checked the statute for Narva tanks. This is an act of aggression, the symbol of which is openly displayed. And there's no mention of a human being here. You referred to the monuments and the person in the previous question. There's no mention of a human being. A public display for which a legal person can be punished if it is displayed in public. And now the legal person is undoubtedly, the monuments are permanently connected to the land, the responsibility and property are actually the landowner, the Narva City Government be a legal person who is supposed to receive a fine. The question is that a tank was undoubtedly erected to support these acts, or acts of aggression. I am now asking clearly, and I think it is a positive initiative from the government: do we clearly say that the public display of symbols permanently linked to the land of the act of aggression, which aims to justify the act of aggression, becomes sanctionable on this basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U766	Thank you. There was no such idea or plan when drawing up this draft. As a result, I am now not 100% sure that this wording will allow this to happen. (It is called: "It is possible! ") Well, if so, yes, but there are specific clauses and conditions here, I expect the Riigikogu to discuss and discuss them. The next question is how to put it into practice, whether it is reasonable and whether there are any other circumstances that exclude or support these facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U767	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U768	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm still going back to where you ended up a moment ago. What is your position on this matter? Well, you also reflect the government's position, you're here as a representative of the government. In the case of the same tank: should it be removed in the light of this bill and, in your sense, is it a valid sign of aggression? How do you interpret that? I think it's positive. We have too much symbolism of Soviet aggression.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U769	Thank you. Personally, I would be very pleased if there were fewer of the various monuments that resemble or point to the Soviet era. But they're still up there for some reason, and they haven't been taken down for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U770	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U771	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, of course, it was one of Estonia's great downfalls when it was black lives we cared about or what it was, Black Lives Matter. After all, monuments were also taken, sawed, thrown into the sea. Should have done the same thing, for our oppressors did not. But somehow I don't understand your logic. A word can lead to a teon, and we must, as if, forbid the word, but not the symbol. I would just like to remind you that before it even went into trouble in the Luhanski and Donetsk regions, flags had already appeared, and the flags have also appeared about the Estonian people's republic. Now, I am still dealing with the symbol that creates the soil, even if in 2005, 500 million so-called Georgi tapes were produced. Can you explain why that word should be banned there?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U772	The word is before aggression, genocide, war crimes, and all that is preceded by a form of people's mind. When we are talking about Ukraine, for example, perhaps some ten years ago, Russia started to talk very aggressively, including at the level of the national administration, and to write about the fact that the Ukrainian people are not the right people and the Ukrainian state is not the right country. It is said that one nation or state has no right to exist, that they are not quite right, that they were spoken for years. Then came military aggression. Words were preparatory and then came symbols. Didn't come before the symbols. There were earlier words that said that there were people, nations, nations that were not, who were not supposed to be, or who had to be eradicated. And then, when aggression or mood was created, the symbols came, the actions came. In that sense, the word comes first.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U773	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U774	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am sure that in the minds of the Estonian people [the thought] has been ripened for a long time and in the heart a feeling of justice that hurts their sense of justice in the context of these red monuments in the Estonian public space. This is still discussed at the important Estonian feast days at the monumental footsteps of the various freedoms, when this shit will end. I can't figure it out now. We're trying to sanction some symbols that are difficult to formulate, but these symbols have been put here for us by the occupiers over time, which we've had to accept. Can we still make a real bill out of this bill so that these symbols can find their place where they belong?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U775	Thank you. The Riigikogu has undoubtedly the opportunity and right to make amendments and additions to the drafts submitted by the Government. The current wording does not really go against existing monuments, because that was not the intention of drafting this draft. But this does not rule out that the Riigikogu, if it finds the formulas and the justifications, should not do so. So this is the Riigikogu's choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U776	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U777	Good manager! Honorable Minister! You argued earlier about the impact of the word on the development of mentality in the example of Russia. You claimed that for ten years, propaganda had been developed in Russia, which ultimately led to war. I ask now: do you really think this comparison is adequate and suitable for Estonia? I would like to know if you think that Estonia is an authoritarian state like Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U778	Thank you. Estonia is not an authoritarian state, but there are very different stages in Estonia's history, including those that we have no reason to be proud of infinity, where things could have been better and more correct. Therefore, we cannot rule out that there may never be a time in the same way that, unfortunately, does not honor us.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U779	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. We can proceed with a joint report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'd like the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, Marek Jürgenson, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U780	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft on Thursday 7 April this year. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present. In addition to the minister and ministry officials, practitioners and experts were also involved. I name [the following guests]: Roger Kumm, Head of East-Harju Police Department of North Prefecture, Aivar Alavere, Head of the Legal Bureau of the Police and Border Guard Board Aare Hõbe, Advisor to the State Attorney General Kati Tee, Head of the Central Criminal Police of the Police and Border Guard Board Carri Ginter, who has also spoken in the media, and Head of the Penal Law Department of the University of Tartu, co-professor of penal law Anneli Soo was involved with state prosecutor Laura Aiaots. I'm not going to repeat the Minister's report here. The debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs was relatively friendly. Listening to the Minister, the experts involved put forward some questions and opinions. For example, Carri Ginter commented that she is pleased that the topic has reached the table of the Committee on Legal Affairs and will also reach the Riigikogu. He assessed that the debate was also important from the point of view of police work and that the draft procedure should be moved forward. In addition, Mr Ginter stressed that he had the impression from the public discussions that the Minister was prepared to wait on the topic of the hate speech, which has already been heard widely here today. Mr Ginter also commented that the support for aggression against Ukraine was much easier to identify in the case of symbols than in the case of the text. He therefore considered it reasonable to start with the symbols. This is a first step, and then a longer discussion can already be held, who, and on the basis of which, can also prove that there is a pro-linguistic aggression or an incitement to war. Tarmo Kruusimäe, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, stated that the issue could be dealt with directly by taking over the practice of terrorism and applying similar rules. In this case, the situation would be more manageable and more understandable to people, which is allowed and what is not. Carri Ginter also pointed out that the existing and existing law was not sufficient to resolve the present situation. He agreed that the police must make the implementation of the paragraph as simple as possible, and there are two options. The first option is that the policeman must prove that the user of the symbol has the objective of supporting aggression. The second option is to demonstrate through objective monitoring that a person exhibits some symbol in a way that supports aggression. The anti-Semimets wanted to know what steps had been taken with Estonian citizens who went to Donbass and participated in military activities. In addition, he asked whether, in the event of an act of aggression, the person's residence permit would be revoked. Maris Lauri replied that the residence permit could be revoked under the law that is already in force, but that the government needed clarification to make it easier to implement. Mr Poolamets commented that the pentagon is a sensitive issue for Estonians, but military activities are also taking place in other countries, about which foreigners living in Estonia may express their minds. Maris Lauri replied that the context should also be considered when displaying symbols. If someone carries a symbol that is not known in our society, there is no reason to punish the bearer, but there is a reason to punish deliberate provocation. We have also come to the conclusion that Commissioner Vilja Toomas expressed the opinion that this draft should be adopted under an accelerated procedure. He added that he supported the extended version of § 1511 presented by the Government of the Republic, as in this case the law can be interpreted as necessary. He also expressed his support for the deletion of § 151 from the draft as it requires a longer discussion and it is important to move forward quickly with the procedure at the moment. The anti-Semimets also commented that the abstractness of the draft text, the degree of generalisation, is important and should not lead to a situation in which, at the end of the war, the adopted amendments to the law should in turn be abolished. Consequently, as chairman of the committee, I proposed to refer the draft to the first reading of 576 in an amended form, excluding from the draft text the amendment of § 1 (3) of the draft, which amends § 151 of the Penal Code, incitement to hatred. The members of the Commission were fully in agreement on this. At this point, I proposed that draft 576 be referred to first reading. What time is it? Yeah, 23.54. So we barely made it on April 13. I proposed ending the first reading of the draft and setting the deadline for amendments at 18 April, Monday morning at 10 a.m. The members of the Commission did not want to vote and were consensual on this matter. However, we also suggested from the Commission that, when the first reading of draft 576 is closed, the draft should be referred to second reading on 20 April, and that when the second reading is closed, the draft should be put to the final vote on 21 April. Here too, the Members of the Commission did not wish to vote and were in full agreement. We also made a decision to appoint Marek Jürgenson as rapporteur for the Commission. There was a complete consensus on this, too. So the procedural decisions have been read to you here, and such important moments of what took place in the Commission have also been highlighted. So I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U781	There's a question on Tarmo Kruus Hill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U782	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the Commission, the members of the Commission had such a working understanding [of matters]; consensus was easy to come. I am simply surprised by the Minister's presentation, which was not at all good and very obsessed with the word [of the term]. I imagine you may have had some sort of discussion in advance. The Minister does not really think that we are now taking the President of a neighbouring country and his senior officialship to account for their use of the word. The concern is simply that the Ministry always has this kind of capacity, plan C, D and E, how to stretch the procedure, ask the European Commission for advice or whatever. Is everything going as planned, or is the Ministry going to set up a vision for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U783	Thank you. As of now, I'd rather have a feeling, and I'd also like to talk to the Ministry officials about not imposing anything. Good Tarmo, you were on the committee yourself, and I was glad the Minister was there with the officials. There were no more Teams, we were able to ask these questions directly, and we were rather flexible. So no information has been received at this time to allow any drastic changes to be made to this bill. If any amendments are received by Monday morning, then on Monday at the Commission, we will examine them together. So in any case, there was more flexibility than such a so-called contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U784	Thank you. There's no more questions, and that's the end of the presentations. We can go to the negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-13_U785	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! If you take a look from the Nordic world, you can't deny it: it's an alarming time for us and for others. "There is no land alone" we sang years ago, and that is true, today even more than at the time. We are a Member State of the European Union and NATO, a full member of dozens and dozens of international organisations. We're connected to hundreds of ties to the rest of the world. Can't help it, in an ever accelerating globalisation, we cannot isolate ourselves, return to the Korian community. The world is changing, and so is our country. We must realise that solidarity is the foundation of Europe, and we must recognise that for a small country there is more good than bad, much, much more good. It is likely that belonging to the European cultural and security space is the only guarantee of our being a small country, especially in the current security situation, especially in the unpredictable management of the eastern neighbour. Cohesion means both rights and obligations; without one there can be no other. Tolerance, social solidarity, prevention of discrimination are the core values of the Estonian Constitution just the path we have chosen for ourselves. We, that is, the country and the people of Estonia. These values are written in our constitution. Fear and shame, anger and hate speech have been said more recently than ever. All kinds of media, all kinds of chairs of speech, all the same, one talking about the garden and the other talking about the hole in the garden. Eventually, it's all messed up like mush and cabbages. Any new misconception will only fuel new passions. Yeah, the unknown makes you scared. Yes, it is difficult to adapt to the new and often strange as quickly as the present times require. But let's leave our emotions and the innuendo concepts aside today from pouring oil into the fire, no one wins. Instead, let us see what wisdom we, as citizens of the Estonian state, can do here together. Good Riigikogu! In the Estonian Human Rights Centre's newsletter, we read: "The enemy speech [but] humiliates and humiliates people because of their skin colour, ethnic origin, nationality, language, religious persuasion, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or age. Hostile speech can be found anywhere on the street and on the Internet. Hostile speech may be anonymous, but you can hear it from someone you know or even from politicians. The most terrifying thing is that hate speech encourages intolerance and violence, creating an environment in which discrimination against and attacking certain people would seem justified, even if speaking is not directly called for violence." And more. We have agreed with Europe, along with other European countries, that public incitement to violence is criminally punishable. Unfortunately, Estonia has not respected the agreement, being the only ones in Europe with Romania. Poverty clearly involves a psychological attack, violence, or a call to it. Public hatred grows easily into action, and then it is too late to hold back violence or control it. It mobilises people who would not be active without such calls. When people are called upon to hate a person based on his group membership or are called upon to commit violence against a particular group, nothing will happen today. This means that there is no regulation at the level of the law. In order to be condemnable and punishable, it must have clear, qualified features. In society, we must, of course, negotiate this issue more, so that people can understand that anger alone is not yet animosity. Instead, if hate speech is not dealt with in society, malicious insults may be overcome by acts of property abuse or even physical violence. If someone doesn't do anything, it'll make it look like they might do it. Thank you.
