ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 15th working week of the VII plenary session. And, as usual, at the beginning of the sitting, it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please! Marek Jürgenson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs initiates a draft law amending the Arms Act and the Penal Register Act, which envisages two types of amendments: firstly, the conversion of the weapons examination into the Estonian language only, and, secondly, the consideration of the offences committed by the applicant for a weapons permit. The draft introduces amendments to the Arms Act, which ensure that only foreigners with a good level of Estonian can apply for a weapons permit. In order to achieve this, the weapons examination to be carried out when applying for a weapons permit will be made in full only in Estonian. It is also important to note that firearms would not fall into the hands of persons who have ever committed a very serious crime or are unable to handle them safely. The draft therefore complements the grounds for refusing to issue a weapons permit as laid down in the Arms Act. Among other things, it is foreseen that the person who committed a particular serious crime would never be able to apply for a weapons permit. The draft has been transmitted electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U3	There is no further wish to deliver the drafts. We will, of course, decide on the further procedure of this draft in the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U4	71 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U5	We are going to the review of today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws (533 SE). I'd like a presentation from the Social Affairs Committee, Tiiu Aro.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The law on the organisation of health services and the amendment of other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 February this year and the commission is the Social Affairs Committee. The aim of the proposal is to make the healthcare system more flexible and to ensure better access to general medical care. Among other things, as from 1 July, general medical care is organised by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund instead of the Health Board. The first reading of the bill was completed in this Chamber on 6 April. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees of the Riigikogu submitted no amendments to the draft. On 9 April, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent the Commission proposals to amend the draft. There was a wide involvement of stakeholders. Several non-profit institutions, including the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the Estonian Young Family Doctors, as well as the University of Tartu, the Estonian Association of Nurses, the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Society of Medicine Students and the Estonian Association of Young Doctors sent an opinion. The proposal to exclude from the draft the proposed provision of § 221 of the Health Services Organisation Act, "Service of persons on the list without a family doctor', along with the sub-items. This change would have allowed the list of family doctors to be served by hospitals in the development plan for the hospital network if the availability of the family doctor could not be ensured. The Commission supported and formulated an amendment to the stakeholder proposal. The draft was discussed at Commission meetings on three occasions: 12 April, 2 May and 12 May. At its first meeting on 12 April, the content of the draft was discussed with the representatives of the interest groups. The main topic was the proposal that lists of family doctors should be served by hospital network development plan hospitals if the availability of the family doctor cannot be guaranteed. The representative of the family doctor's association explained that this point in the draft, according to which hospitals can also be added to the family doctor's team if necessary, is causing a great deal of confusion in the medical landscape. This view was supported by young family doctors. According to them, taking family medical care to hospitals is an unthinkable solution, contrary to the current principle of separate family medical care and specialist medical care. Arvi Vask, member of the board of the Estonian Hospitals Association, also noted that hospitals are not interested in providing family doctor services. The representatives of the Ministry agreed that this is a very important point and that the reaction of family doctors is understandable. It was clarified that the purpose of the provision was to create a solution for a crisis situation. At its second meeting on 2 May, the Ministry's officials presented proposals for amending the draft. Again, we have reached this amendment, which I have already discussed at length: to delete § 221 of the proposed Health Services Organisation Act, the possibility of transferring the provision of family medical care to hospitals in the hospital network development plan. The Commission examined the amendments and took procedural decisions. On 12 May, the chairman of the committee was authorised to endorse the procedural documents. Now for the amendments. There are seven of them, these are the proposals of the lead committee, and all these proposals were supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. A few words about the most important. The first is that the transfer of the list of hospital network development plan to the hospital without a family doctor is not correct and it was proposed to exclude this provision from the law. The second amendment relates to the National Register of Health Care Workers of the Agency. The third to fifth concern the supply of antidotes and vaccines and the transfer of storage from the Health Board to the Health Insurance Fund. The sixth proposal follows from the Health Service Provider's Compulsory Liability Insurance Act, [according to this proposal] the current Health Service Quality Expert Committee will be wound up by 31 December 2024 at the latest. The seventh [proposal] is technical and concerns the regulation of entry into force. Finally, the lead committee took procedural decisions. The Commission proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda for a second reading on 17 May, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be closed. Another hearing in this Chamber, the third reading, would be if everything went as planned, scheduled for June 1st. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U7	Kalle Grünthal would like to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U8	Thank you, Mr President. This draft also amends the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. The amendment is that in paragraph 8 (1), the word "complying" is replaced by the word "innovating." Why don't you explain what such a change will bring? The current regulation is as follows: "The Ministry of Social Affairs coordinates the implementation of the immunisation plan. "And now this "fill" is replaced by "update." What does that mean, and what does it mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U9	This point was absolutely not discussed in the Commission. I can explain in person what that means.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U10	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U11	Thank you. How, then, will we discuss this now if this amendment is on our table and the Commission has not discussed it? In fact, it is a procedural question why we are in this situation now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U12	This amendment was not discussed by the Commission and, in principle, does not make a significant difference. "Remedies' means that the immunisation plan is reviewed and corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U13	I don't see any more questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U15	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. As you have heard, seven amendments have been tabled, all are from the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. Therefore, the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh amendments have all been accepted. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. I do not see any objections to this, so we have concluded the second reading, and we have also concluded the debate on the first point.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U16	The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic (499 SE). This is Merry Aart from the Committee on Rural Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Feedingstuffs Act was adopted in Riigikogu proceedings on 14 December 2021. The Committee on Rural Development discussed the amendment of the feed law, including on 24 January before the first reading, and the first reading took place in the large hall on 9 February 2022. The first reading was completed. A little reminder of the substance of the law. The European Union Directive was transformed into a regulation that is directly applicable and changes need to be introduced in this respect. The general principles remain unchanged. The amendment concerns topics relating to medicated feed, its handling and the production of an intermediate product, i.e. definitions. The draft law updates the penalty rates. The production of medicated feed is not very common in Estonia, so the impact on companies is not significant. The changes to the feed law concern feed business operators. Feed business operators shall be authorised when they are involved in the production of medicated feed and intermediate product and shall be provided with an economic notification when they handle medicated feed, including retail sales of pet animals [medicated feed]. All stakeholders were involved in the debate on the draft law. There were quite a few of them, including producers' organisations, circular-economy businesses, veterinarians, veterinary surgeons, and also pharmacists. The Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the feed law at its meeting on 9 May. The amendment submitted to the Commission for consideration was examined and the procedural decisions relating to the draft were taken. The Commission asked the interested parties involved for an opinion. There were no linguistic proposals. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. On a proposal from the representative of the initiator of the draft act, one amendment was drawn up by the lead committee. This amendment sets the date of entry into force of the Act and would be 1 July 2022. The draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Veterinary Act excludes from the Pharmaceutical Act standards concerning medicated feed on the grounds that medicated feed is no longer considered as a medicinal product. The amendments to the Feed Act and to the Pharmaceutical and Veterinary Act, which are the next item on the agenda today, must enter into force on the same day in order to ensure legal clarity in the regulations in the field of medicated feed and veterinary medicinal products. The Commission supported this proposal. Procedural decisions. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Feed Law initiated by the Government of the Republic (499 SE) to the Riigikogu plenary for a second reading today, 17 May with a proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to take the draft to plenary for the third reading, including on 1 June, and to put the draft law to a final vote of 499. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U18	Colleagues would like to be more specific. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U19	Thank you. Maybe you'll be more specific about this: a message was taken out of this bill that medicated feed [is a drug]. It's not a cure anymore. So what is medicated feed legally now that it's no longer a cure?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U20	I'm gonna give you a very simple answer. Medicated feed is feed containing medicinal products and given to animals for therapeutic purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U21	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U22	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, You spoke here in your explanation about the fact that the use of medicated feed in Estonia is not very widespread, but it is still used. And we were also talking in the Commission about the case in which medicated feed is used. No, in particular [used when there are] any shortcomings in the economic activity of the company and [medicated feed] try to make up for something. One of these [events] was the diarrhoea of piglets. What do you think, as a senior consul, what alternative ways could be, or how should advice be given and how to act so that companies do not use medicated feeds but other alternatives to make use of their economic disadvantages?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U23	Thank you, my good colleague. In the case of pig diarrhea, zinc oxide is used, the right to use of which expires this year. What comes in its place, as the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs has also told us at the Commission meeting, he does not yet know. Now, as far as the story is concerned, it was not about the production of medicated feed, not about the use of medicated feed for a very large number of businesses. Indeed, there are very few producers of medicated feed in Estonia, a few. As far as the fine is concerned, as I recall in 2017, one [person] was fined as a natural person, not a legal person for non-compliance with the requirements. He got a ticket, if I remember correctly, but I might be wrong about 300 euros. The second, [previous] incident was in 2015 and then there was a fine for a natural person of 60 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U24	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U25	Thank you. I thank you for that answer. I understand there are now two kinds of bait, one cures and the other doesn't cure. But I'm asking if there was any talk about GMOs. In feedingstuffs or so-called non-neither medicated feeds, if this law is adopted, are cereals produced through GMOs or something else used? Did you talk about it? I know that in previous years, efforts have been made to bring this issue in through various drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U26	Thank you for your question. GMOs are not covered by this law and were not discussed by the Commission. Only the subject of medicated feed was discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U27	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is the question of curiosity. Do medicated feeds also contain antibiotics, and does anything change about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U29	Yes, they do. I am about to find this place: the use of third and fourth generation antibiotics is limited and should only be used when susceptibility has been assigned to pathogens and other first-line antibiotics are not sensitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U30	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We all know that the cow is milking out of its mouth. But right now we have a situation where we have an electric shock. The prices of energy carriers have skyrocketed and continue to rise. And the FAO warns that the world is facing food shortages in connection with the war in Ukraine and adverse climate conditions. Has it also been said that it may end up in Estonia, and this whole bill can therefore turn out to be a piece of paper to a large extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U32	Thank you. Price increases are certainly a major shock to agriculture as well. But whether they reach Estonia within the framework of this law, I have some doubts because it does not concern agriculture in general. In the case of medicated feedingstuffs, a variety of options can be used and I do not see much connection here with medicated feedingstuffs. But for agriculture, this shock is certainly because the prices of inputs have already increased four or five times, but sales prices only twice. I'm sure it's gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U33	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U34	Thank you, manager. I will tell Mr Aivar Koka that GMO cultivation is very well regulated and very precisely regulated. As far as I know, Estonia can only grow one corn culture today, and it does not grow well here either. It's not possible to grow it randomly here, it's exactly regulated. So it's not a threat today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U36	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned in your report that the Commission decided to change the deadline for entry into force. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U38	Now, that's a good question, if you can't answer it, tell me it's a good question. In fact, I believe that the European regulation entered into force on 28 January. However, since [we] will probably not be able to enforce it [as the draft law] before 1 July, since the third reading will only be on 1 June if everything goes well, and then there will be the time of the proceedings and the time of the visit to the State's Official Journal and everything else, in this sense this [new date of entry into force] is the most real. Secondly, it is bound by the Pharmaceutical Act and the Veterinary Act and these three laws should enter into force on one day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U39	No further questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that, as you have heard, are exactly one. The Committee on Rural Affairs has wished to specify the date of entry into force. This is the first [and only] amendment. No one else has any wish, so the amendment has been accepted. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. We have finished our second reading and we have exhausted the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U40	The third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and veterinary law initiated by the Government of the Republic (544 SE). Here is Social Affairs Committee waitress Hele Everaus.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Let me remind you a little bit, before I go to more accurate data, the intermediate period between the first reading and the second reading, that's what we're talking about. 2019 Regulation 2019/6 of the European Parliament and of the Council on veterinary medicinal products and repealing the previous Directive entered into force. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable. The regulation will pay greater attention to the better availability of veterinary medicinal products, the reduction of administrative burden on marketing authorisation holders of veterinary medicinal products, the introduction of new medicinal products, the better functioning of the European Union single market for veterinary medicinal products, the best possible protection of human and animal health and the environment, the prevention of the emergence and spread of antimicrobial resistance in the treatment of animals, as well as the effective use of existing antimicrobials in the treatment and competitiveness of human infections, and better access to information on medicinal products across the Union. Perhaps the whole content is that the medicines used for both humans and animals were previously dealt with on the basis of common standards, but in the last 20 years, differences have still come up very significantly. This has led to the need to change regulations, and this is behind this whole law[the draft] and these amendments. How has the whole procedure taken place? On 7 March, the Government of the Republic initiated this draft. The first reading was on 6 April and the reading was completed. The deadline for amendments was 21 April and no amendments were tabled by Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. On 19 April, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent the Commission, by letter, proposals to amend the draft and three amendments were tabled on the basis of these proposals. In preparation for the second reading of the draft, the Commission discussed it further and further on 2 May and 12 May. On 2 May the Commission also had representatives from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Medicines Agency and the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Estonian Drug Wholesaler Association. More specifically, Eda Lopato, Head of the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Katrin Kiisk, Director General of the Medicines Agency, and Liis Prii, Head of the Monitoring Department of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Enno Piisang and Maia Radin, and Managing Director of the Estonian Drug Wholesaler Association, Teet Torgo. Mr Lopato presented the proposals presented by the Ministry of Social Affairs and we discussed them in the Commission, and I will come back to them. In advance, the Commission has supported these proposals and formalised three amendments to the draft, to which I will come. The discussion was held with representatives of the Estonian Association of Medicinal Products Wholesalers, who mentioned some of the points of concern in the draft: [they concerned] the extension of the right to import veterinary medicinal products and the relationship and possible problems between the European Union's regulation on veterinary medicinal products on the basis of the sale and draft between veterinary medicinal products. The Head of the Department of Medicinal Products of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave very clear answers and explained that all the issues raised had been discussed with the Agency and the Estonian Traders' Association. According to the Regulation, the wholesale sale of veterinary medicinal products must be subject to a wholesale authorisation valid throughout the European Union. However, this is not absolute validity and wholesale operations are limited territorially. This means that a wholesaler may offer its wholesale activities in the Member State in which the licence is issued. I wouldn't go into the details here, maybe if anyone wanted to, I could come back to them. So, in fact, the purpose of the Regulation is for Member States to accept authorisations issued in another Member State and for persons entitled to purchase medicinal products by wholesale distribution to [buy] either from a wholesaler in their Member State or from a wholesaler in another Member State. Those answers were satisfactory. The Ministry of Social Affairs also pointed out that Estonia has a rare system of special permits in the European Union. In this sense, there have been very serious considerations here, but the regulation directly applicable does not regulate it, so the best solutions have been found during the preparation of the draft, based on how our veterinary affairs can work in the best way. So, amendments are coming forward. They were examined and unanimously supported by the Commission. The first amendment concerned the amendment and addition of the new clause 5 of § 1 of the draft, which deletes the word "in pharmacy" from subsection 3 (1) of the Pharmaceutical Act. This is due to the fact that developments in the pharmaceutical sector require clarification of the concept of handling medicinal products, since the preparation of medicinal products no longer takes place in pharmacies alone. The second amendment complements the new clause 20 of § 1 of the draft. This amendment entitles the holder of a marketing authorisation for the wholesale or manufacturing of medicinal products to sell a veterinary medicinal product the pharmaceutical form of which is a premix for medicated feed, to a feed business operator authorised to manufacture or to manufacture medicated feed or intermediate products in advance pursuant to Article 19 (1) of the Law on Feed. The third proposal is accompanied by a deadline for entry into force, which was already mentioned here. It is easier for me to say that setting a date for entry into force is necessary in order for the law to enter into force at the same time as the amendments to the feed law and to ensure legal clarity in the regulation of medicated feedingstuffs and veterinary medicinal products. So this draft is related to the draft law amending the Feed Act pending before you in Riigikogu 499. The commission also took procedural decisions. The Social Affairs Committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 17 May. The proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, if it does so, to place the draft on the plenary agenda and hold a final vote on 1 June 2022. We also had a short meeting on 12 May, not a short meeting, but a short debate, which decided to give the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee the mandate to sign the draft procedural documents. Again, everyone's consensual yes-word was received. Thank you, colleagues, for your patience.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U42	Peter Ernits wants to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U43	Good manager! Dear waitress, As a human doctor, I'd like to ask you about the world of puddle medicine. I tried to read it [the bill], but it's pretty hard to see what the point is. On the one hand, [it is said] that on the basis of wholesale licences, but that in fact it cannot be taken so-called one-to-one, I read. What does that mean? For example, there is a unique system of special permits in Estonia for the sale of these pudding medicines. How did this thing come about, and what kind of thing is it, and why [it is needed]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U44	This system, as far as I understand it, not only concerns the so-called puddles you mentioned, but it also deals with certain psychiatric medications, as required. Given that our population, both as humans and, say, as animals, is relatively small, differences are sometimes needed to get the medicine needed for the sick [human] or sick animal. [Erisus] provides an opportunity to do so; the distinction allows for the passing of certain legal arrangements. But I'm not qualified to quote it exactly right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U45	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U46	I'd like to continue. There are other countries in the European Union that are much smaller than [Estonia], but they do not have a system of special permits. Attention was drawn to the fact that the proposals of the pharmaceutical association were sent to the trash. They're supposed to be the ones doing the job. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U47	I'll read you more here. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, the questions they asked were discussed at length, and these aspects were also brought before us. Maybe then I'll just read what I didn't bring to you. Okay. In essence, yes, the Ministry of Social Affairs, with its so-called claims, pointed out, on the one hand, that this organisation has not correctly interpreted these legal provisions. This is one aspect. The second aspect is that there is, in essence, no conflict with European law here. These were the two main aspects that were highlighted. But in the protocol, you can read more about who's interested.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U49	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, For many, it is certainly surprising that veterinary medicines are also sold in a conventional pharmacy, for example, it is very easy to buy worm grass from a private pharmacy. But is there any limit on the proportion of sales of veterinary medicinal products that can be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U50	The usual pharmacy? I don't dare say I know about this. I'm sorry, but I don't know that it's regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U51	Okay, no more questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U52	Thank you all for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U53	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, I will close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that have been made to this draft. There are three of them, they are all made by the commission and are fully accounted for by the first, second and third committees. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Since I do not see any other proposals, we have completed the second reading of Bill 544.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U54	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Kristian Jaani, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to stand before you to introduce the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The main purpose of the amendment is to give the municipality the opportunity to terminate the residence data if the address of the person's place of residence is entered in the population register with the accuracy of the local government. This means that the person's address in the population register is limited to the accuracy of the city and district or rural municipality or settlement unit, but the person is not actually present in Estonia. The address of the dwelling shall be entered in the population register with the precision of the local government if the person cannot add a copy of the document certifying the right to use the dwelling to the residence notification or the consent of the owner of the dwelling or the person's exact address of residence is not known. According to the current Population Register Act, it is not possible for the local government to terminate the residence data in the population register with the precision of the person's city and district or rural municipality or settlement unit. Only a person can [do this] by submitting a residence notification with his new address and the residence details [will lose validity] even at the end of the residence permit, for example. Thus, the problem has arisen that a person may have left Estonia and left his or her data unorganized. According to the current law, it is not possible for the local government to end the validity of such residence data in the population register. For example, in the case of Ukrainian war refugees, there have been cases that the person has an address with the accuracy of the municipality in the population register, but he has left Estonia and no one has the right to terminate such residence data in the population register. As a result, there have been cases where local authorities hesitate to transfer the residence data to the population register with the accuracy of the municipality at all, since there is no possibility to terminate them [the validity] later, even though the person has actually left [the country]. The local government is given the possibility to terminate the residence data with the accuracy of the local government only under certain conditions. These are, as stated above, [the following]: the address of the person's place of residence must be in the population register only with the accuracy of the city and district or rural municipality settlement unit, i.e. the address is not accurate; the person is not in their territory or elsewhere in Estonia, to the knowledge of the local government; the person does not have the details of the place of stay in the population register, for example, he is not in a nursing home, prison or any other such place. The local government official does not need to do anything new to make the person's location clear; he or she must simply try to find out the location of the person using administrative procedures, such as trying to reach the person by e-mail or telephone or to check the data from other databases used in his or her work. Only exit information may not always be available here, because a person may have crossed the Estonian border, but he may have gone on holiday for a few days and come back. I dare say that this task is no more resource-intensive for the local government than other attempts to contact a person in administrative proceedings [modernities]. I repeat, it is the responsibility of the local government to show that they have tried to contact the person. This ensures that the procedure is not carried out lightly and superficially. It is important to note here that the amendment does not only apply to Ukrainian war refugees, but also applies to all other persons whose residence data are in the population register with the precision of the city and district or rural municipality or settlement unit. The local government shall terminate the validity of the residence data of the person entered in the population register after the person has been informed or 30 days after the publication of the notice in Official Announcements, unless it becomes apparent after the person has been informed that he or she is in Estonia. If the local government determines that the person still lives in Estonia, the local government does not terminate the validity of the data on the person's place of residence within the framework of this procedure, but instead contact the local government of the person's place of residence, which must deal with the fact that the person's correct data on the place of residence can also be reached in the population register. This amendment will help to ensure that the population register data are correct. Accurate and reliable data in the population register are important to enable local authorities to plan the provision of local services and benefits and the local government and state know who actually resides in their territory. I will also bring forward a technical amendment here. Paragraph 75 (2) (4) of the Population Register Act is repealed as the provisions of the Population Register Act, which enabled the notification of residence to be made on a prospective or retroactive date, were previously repealed by the Act amending the Population Register Act and related to the amendment of other laws, but the point in the notice of residence was not invalidated, according to which the date of expiry of the residence address for the new place of residence was stated in the notice of residence. Thank you for listening. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U56	Kert Kingo starts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a question: is it also intended to introduce corresponding changes to the population register [the law] so that inaccurate residence data cannot be provided? For example, I have personally seen in the register that the city of Tartu is the place of residence. Just vague. Has anything been done about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U58	Thank you for your question. Yes, the current Population Register Act really provides that opportunity. However, this draft concerns specifically only the deletion of [data] and not the input of new data or the correction or specification of existing data. Today, there is really a possibility that data can be provided in this form: with the precision of the municipality or city, and without indicating the specific address of the place of residence. With the address of the place of residence, it is often the case that if, for example, the owner of the dwelling does not allow the [residual residence] person to enter the address with such accuracy in the [register], the only option is to enter it in the [register] with the city's accuracy. So this is definitely the point of discussion. However, this debate has not been in this form at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U59	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U60	Good manager! Good minister! This marginal target group, 21000 people, how many of them are so-called natives? I'm sorry for the expression. I mean [those who are not] Ukrainian war refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U61	Thank you. When we are talking about the Ukrainian refugee war, today's data shows that some 7900 people who have received temporary protection have registered their residence data in the population register. Some 2,800 of them, in turn, are those whose residence data are accurate to the municipality or city.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U62	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U63	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! As a continuation of my question, it seems to me that you are starting at the wrong end. Shouldn't it be a priority to clean up the registration procedures so that it is not possible to enter these inaccurate data, in which case my place of residence is just the Republic of Estonia, and then start looking for people with matchfire? This should be limited when entering data into the register. Start at the right end!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U64	Thank you for that observation. Well, you can't really say that [only] the Republic of Estonia is resident. [Data] must be accurate to the extent of the municipality, city or settlement unit. There are simply situations where a person who does not own a dwelling must also be able to enter his or her data in the population register. If we lost this [option], these people would never be able to record their data in the population register. Once again, registration of residence details in [registry] requires permission from the owner of the residence, but the holder is not obliged to grant such permission. At the same time, a person must record his or her records. So it can't quite be the case that absolutely everyone has to have a very precise residence address entered there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U65	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Here is a very interesting amendment to the law: according to § 75 (2) (4) the date of the beginning of the residence address is repealed. Personally, I cannot understand why it needs to be changed so that we no longer know when the person has settled permanently in the place of residence. Perhaps here, too, the possibility remains that, since the address of residence is no longer required, this person can also take part in elections, for example, a person who has come from abroad, because we do not know how long he has lived in this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U67	Thank you. These data, how long someone has lived in the country, will ultimately come from the residence permit of when the residence permit has been issued to a person. When we talk about elections, it is [important] above all for a long-term residence permit and this information comes from there, not from when the person's residence data is registered in the population register. So I don't see any such dangers here. Indeed, this is a technical amendment concerning § 75 and relates to a previous amendment to the same Population Register Act, which simply abolished this obligation, so that it is no longer necessary to set that prospective and retroactive deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U68	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The current government has launched or essentially removed all the restrictions on immigration, and I have a question for you in this regard. What is the point of this immigration limit, which states that zero decimals of how many percent of the population can come to Estonia every year if we take buses from the Polish border, they cross the eastern border? Can't even say[how much]. Yesterday, during our enquiries, we tried to get some figures on how many citizens of the Russian Federation cross the eastern border and how many Ukrainian citizens and citizens of other third countries cross the eastern border. [We were told that] don't know, can't say, there are different data, there are different bases on which they enter. What country is this, and when will we start speaking Russian in this hall? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U70	Thank you. This has nothing to do with the draft amendment which I am presenting at the moment, but I can assure you that today's situation is certainly not such that all people from third countries are allowed to enter Estonia indiscriminately. At the border, however, it will be checked who can come and what these bases are. It is also very well known which country someone is coming to us from, talking about crossing the external border. When we talk about the entry of the Russian Federation into Estonia, [it can be said that] there are about 1,200 to 1,300 people coming in and about the same amount going out, [the situation is] more or less balanced. For those people who come here, there are two options: they either have a permanent residence permit in Estonia or they come here on the basis of a visa. Most of the people who create border traffic between the Russian Federation and Estonia are over 60%, people who also hold a permanent residence permit in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U71	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U72	Good manager! Good minister! In the Soviet era there was such a song that moi adres ne dom i ne ulitsa, moi adres Sovetskij Sojuz. Now, I understand that apart from the Ukrainians, there are about 13,000 people in Estonia to whom this song applies. But who are they, and in which municipalities do they mostly reside?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U73	Thank you. Yeah, there's about 21,000 of these people, really. What could these bases be? A lot of this is that people are on rental premises, for example, and the owner has not given them permission to place this residence in the [register] with the accuracy of the address. Indeed, some are people who have fled from the war in Ukraine and have not yet received a place of residence that could have an exact address in [the register], and continue to be in temporary residence. For example, people on board a passenger ship called Isabella are also unable to enter an address with the accuracy of their residence, but they can place an address with the accuracy of the city and district.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U74	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U75	Thank you. I'll come back to the same law amendment, according to which the date of birth of the residence address will no longer be indicated. Your answer was that it still exists in the population register on [date]. But when we look at this from the beginning of the process, when a person moves to live somewhere, basic data are basically coming from local government. This leads to the fact that the population register no longer indicates the date of the person's settlement, which means that he still has the freedom to participate in elections with complete legitimacy. There are no obstacles. In local elections, a group of persons, including foreigners, has the right to participate in local elections in Estonia. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U76	Thank you. I come to my last answer. Such rights provide the basis for stay in Estonia, not the data that is in the population register. Rights still come from the basis on which a person is staying in Estonia, whether it is a residence permit or a visa. Of course, people are not included in the population register on the basis of a visa, not today. So once again: the existence of a population register really opens up some kind of benefits, gives the municipality the right to plan some kind of services, but it does not grant any kind of rights to a person in the form that you described. These rights still come from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U77	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that somewhere some 7,000 Ukrainian war refugees have defined their place of residence, have been able to define their place of residence either with the precision of the local government or with a specific address. But we know there's 38,000 left. [What about] the rest? Do you have any information on where the rest of the people who have not defined their place of residence? Where do they live and what do they do? There are very many of these people, and the country should still have some sort of insight, or you should be moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U79	Thank you. There's still an overview. Indeed, there have been 38000 stays and temporary protection has now reached 23000 to 25000 [refugees]. And indeed, the place of residence has registered almost 8,000 [refugees] as more specific, then 7900. and very specific, with address accuracy, the place of residence [is registered] 2800. This data gets better every day. This is primarily a person's own interest in having such data available in the population register, because people who have received temporary protection receive different benefits [on this basis], including access to the education system, is based on the fact that the [residual residence] data are included in the population register. These numbers get better all the time. Data on people who have received temporary protection are, of course, available to the PBGB where these people are staying. Those people who have not yet applied for temporary protection are therefore not required to do so, so they are staying in Estonia on the basis of the so-called visa waiver that we grant to Ukrainian citizens and staying with their loved ones who were already in front of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U80	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U81	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. We are talking here about amending the Population Register Act. But that's what I'm asking. Could you please shed some light on how this random check, or even control, is going to be carried out in the country today about who we have here and who we have around here? How do we know that? One thing is, we're seeing some car numbers on the border and a lot of who's coming. But do we also carry out state control within the state as a whole, that who is moving here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U82	Thank you. Yeah, we will. This is largely the task of the Police and Border Guard Board to carry out such visits as part of the so-called migration surveillance. [This will be done] in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate and the Tax and Customs Board. For example, one thing that is randomly checked is different construction sites. It looks at which people work there, on what basis they are in the country, whether their work is registered and so on and so forth. But the short answer is yes, it is part of migration surveillance. It is the responsibility of the various bodies, in particular the PBGB, as well as the Tax and Customs Board and the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U83	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Not to mention that this whole process, that Estonia so kindly offers its country with a small population to tens and tens of thousands of alleged war refugees, but, on very many occasions, probably just people who use the opportunity to leave Ukraine and also leave Russia, brings about a very clear and rapid Russification of Estonia, we also have a security problem here. For example, the United States does not accept Ukrainian war refugees from Russia, nor does the Czech Republic. Are you saying that Estonia is able to control all these tens of thousands of people [to ensure] that we are not dealing with people who might pose a security risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U85	Thank you. The security risk is, of course, one of the most important areas of work in the Ministry of Internal Affairs area and this risk must be mitigated. One grounding measure has indeed also been that we are so far the only Member State in the European Union that has restored internal border controls precisely in order to obtain information about those fleeing the war in Ukraine. But one thing is to give them immediate help on the border, the other is to really get information about who's coming here. This is done very unambiguously, precisely for security reasons. So once again: we are doing this at internal borders and, of course, we are doing it at the external borders, we are doing it well, we are conducting very many interviews. It is certainly not that all those who cross the border will be able to enter Estonia. Can't all people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U86	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned, as an example, that those who live on board the ship have been registered with the accuracy of the municipality. In fact, we also have these situations in other places in Estonia, where they are registered in hotels or guest houses. Indeed, it is important to a person; he will receive his services. However, for the municipality, this is not the solution because the municipality is not paid for the services at the bottom of the check-in [in] or rather, the income tax is not paid for those people who have been signed in [only] with the accuracy of the municipality. There are clearly scissors here. Is the government prepared to change this principle [and to do so] so that people who are registered with the accuracy of the local government receive the income tax [of the local governments] that is provided for them [of the people]?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U88	Thank you. Definitely a very good question. This change has come at the initiative of local authorities, so that the municipality can specify the data itself in the population register. Perhaps [this is] a particular situation in which people have left the territory of the municipality, but it is not possible to delete the data. It is very difficult to plan different jobs, different grants, how many school places are needed, how many kindergarten places are needed, and so on and so forth. But once again, I fully agree that the municipality must also have the means to provide these services. This is a very important issue that can certainly be discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U89	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I completely agree that this change needs to be made, given the Otepää municipality, where I live and where the proportion of the war refugees in the population is quite high, because the accommodation facilities qualified there quite a lot, but it is clear that these people will not stay there. I have a question that, on whose initiative or in what form they are currently registered in accommodation facilities with the precision of the municipality. Why is this rule chosen [and why] is not enough for us to know that they are here? Why is it necessary to register residence with the accuracy of the municipality in the first place? Who needs it and in what context? We know that, in the context of Otepää, for example, there are no public services for these people, such as school places for children and jobs for [adults]. There are very many war refugees because there are many accommodation facilities. In any other context, we do not expect there to be huge services.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U91	Thank you. In one way, the initiative has been taken by local governments; in the other, the initiative has been on the social side and, of course, by the Ministry of the Interior. The question is purely that the population register is the database in which all data on people who are in Estonia and who receive some kind of service here must be provided. In the example of Otepää, as you said, perhaps these services are not [sufficient] much now and will not be in the future. But once again: the population register is the foundation in Estonia, where data must be provided on the people who are staying in Estonia. That is why it is not so much a question of whose initiative it is, but of the nature and purpose of the population register that there must be data on the people who are in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U92	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, too, really agree that this is basically necessary. The population register must have current data, there is no doubt about it. And really, whoever initiates this process should be able to introduce these changes. But right now, I think he's kind of running a little sideways. Perhaps it is as if we are able to solve this problem for the people with the accuracy of the municipality [by allowing residence data], but indirectly, because the municipalities do not actually receive money from the State to provide these services. This should certainly also be examined in [under] this procedure. My question comes now. Have you or have you not coordinated it with the Union of Cities and Municipalities? I couldn't find it on the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U94	Thank you. This issue has been discussed with the Association of Cities and Municipalities, which was their initiative. I myself took part in this meeting, where this topic was taken up precisely by the Cities and Municipalities Association, but also separately by different municipalities. Indeed, it was seen as a major concern that data were not correct in the population register. Since we know that more than 38000 people have arrived in Estonia, for example from Ukraine, who have stayed here and who will return to build their home country, but certainly not all of them, I will say once again that it is important for local governments that the data is correct. Only then will they be able to plan their budgets, incentives and [activity].
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U95	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U96	Thank you. Dear Minister, The population register is an information bank and we all understand that this information bank needs to be improved, kept up-to-date. But my question comes from this area that when a refugee arrives in Estonia, in this case a war refugee, what is his motivation? We should, in my opinion, deal with his motivation to register somewhere, so that the state knows better what is happening, where these persons are and what services to offer them. Is this motivation created for them on a legal basis so that they have a clear need to register and determine their place of residence, or are we rather dealing with giving the municipality the right to delete [residence details] from the register in certain cases? Or the other way around, when they are deleted, what motivates this person to re-register himself or herself? I'll ask you this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U97	Thank you. Well, this motivation is purely because a person himself does not have the means to cope on a daily basis, or because he wants his children to be part of an educational system in the territory of a particular municipality, that is the first motivating [factor]. These [options] will only open once the data is entered in the population register, and this should motivate the person to transfer the data there. But once again, today's challenge is to get a permanent residence and it is important that this permanent residence is located in the region of Estonia. The ideal permanent residence is one where there is a job, a kindergarten place and a school place, apart from a vacant place of residence. It should ideally be the foundation of everything that this person should finally land on. But the motivation [is] purely that if you do not manage with your own resources and you need to receive benefits, the task of the local government is [to pay them], then this [option] will only open up after the person is registered in the population register and comes out of which specific municipality it is located at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U98	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U99	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'd ask you that. This law is about removing from the register. The other half is about registering, as has been the case here. We're an IT state. Why can't these two things be in one law together? It's very easy to put registration there too, so you can't register if you don't have a very precise address. Or are they gonna come out with this registration law in a couple of months? I'm asking because of why we make such incomplete laws. Why don't we finish things off in one law?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U100	Thank you. This is not a partial solution. Once again, the possibility has been created today that under certain circumstances a person can register his or her residence details with the precision of the municipality, city or district. It is simply a practical necessity for such an option to be possible because the Population Register Act provides that if you are not the owner of the dwelling, you must not enter this information in the Population Register unless the owner consents to it. At the same time, under certain circumstances, we must have people in the population register. In fact, [this draft] simply solves the situation of how to delete [data]. By registering, we have no immediate concerns about the population register today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U101	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U102	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I still come back to the fact that we have more or less 8,000 [from Ukraine] people who have an overview of what they are doing and where they are. But 30,000 are scattered on Estonia somewhere. You said that the motivation [to register a dwelling] should be created if people do not have their own resources to cope with it. Then they should be motivated to register so that the state has an overview. But what do these 30,000 do? Do they suddenly work dirty, or do they have the resources? Have you been interested in this? I know that in Finland, for example, banks have come to the aid of the state and the state also uses telephone companies. You cannot open a bank account until you tell me where you are or whose responsibility you are. Do we have any plans like this? Thirty thousand is still a pretty large number of people who just scurry around here somewhere that they don't have an overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U103	Thank you. We know very well who we have here in Estonia. We have a restored border control at the internal border, or anyone coming across an internal border through the European Union, we have the data and they are registered in the border crossing information bases. We know exactly. And at the external border, we've had border control all along, and the entry of these people will be recorded exactly the same way. So whoever's come here, we know very well. Indeed, those who have not applied for temporary protection and who have gone to their loved ones, to their family members, we do not know in which particular place of residence no one is present. You don't need to know, because these people are here, so to speak, visa-free and we don't need to know the identity of these people. But we know they've entered the country. Those who have moved on from here to Finland, for example, in terms of transit, and for whom there is a risk that they have applied for temporary protection in both places and wanting to receive benefits in both countries, this situation will be resolved by us on 31 May. Then [accepts] data exchange across the European Union, where the Member States of the European Union will exchange data with each other [about] where someone has received temporary protection to avoid duplication and mitigate the risks that someone might want to cheat.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U104	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns the fact that we have how many of these residents in the register with the precision of the settlement unit. What is the number of these, where the exact details are not actually given, but it is said that my location is X village? And if we give local authorities the right to terminate [data], how will it happen in real life? If a person does not have an e-mail address, he does not communicate via e-Estonia, then how does this person, citizen learn that his so-called existence in this village has ended on the initiative of the local government? And I understand that when he gets this message, he should take action to re-register himself somewhere. Perhaps you will briefly describe and give an answer to the number of people who are [written in] with the precision of the settlement unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U106	Thank you. Very briefly: 21000 people in Estonia are those whose residence is indicated with the precision of [only] municipality. The process is simple, it is an administrative procedure process, just as the Code of Administrative Procedure states that what are the circumstances and how you have to explain them on the part of the municipality. You can use the data you have access to, such as different information bases. When you find out where a person lives, you just tell him, say that we're going to start this process, or the person will say that ups, I have an address, and initiates the process by itself, so to speak, to write down [the details of his place of residence] with the accuracy of the address. If a person is not caught, the municipality will publish this information in Official Announcements. If there is no information about [person] within 30 days, the residence data can be deleted from the population register.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U107	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! Marko Storm of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister spoke so exhaustively and received many answers. I will try not to repeat him, perhaps simply stress the nature of the debate we had in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I will also reach procedural decisions. This is a clear first reading. If I had to make my own assessment of [the proposed amendment], I would say that this is a technical change, although very important, based on the need for real life, but a technical change. As the nature of the questions has already shown, we could talk at length here about the status of war refugees and how much we should receive people crossing the border, but the proposed amendment based on the [this] bill is nevertheless very concrete. This concerns the deletion of entries from the population register database. This need has come from the municipalities themselves, I think, to emphasise it. And although it is more evident in relation to the war refugees and precisely because of the relatively large number of people who have arrived here in Estonia in a short period of time, in fact it also affects all [other] people living in Estonia and our citizens. The reason is very simple. As the Minister pointed out, people who are included in the population register with the precision of the settlement, district or settlement are in the order of 20,000 and a little more. In the case of refugees, we are talking about the circa 8 000 people who have been entered in the population register in a short time. Of these, a little more than 2,000 people have had an exact address, while the rest [only] have an accurate location. The problem is, in principle, that when a person is registered, the municipality must take into account that this person must be provided with legal guarantees: services, guarantees, grants, as has been said, from kindergarten places to subsistence benefits. If a person is no longer living in this part of the city or municipality, the presence of such people on the register may in certain cases be even large amounts of them and is likely to be detrimental to the municipality. If the municipality does not have adequate, accurate data, it is difficult to make decisions. So I fully support this amendment. As has already been said, this is a very concrete opportunity for municipalities. If you go over the questions and answer how this process should happen, how the municipality learns that a person does not live there and that no one is harmed, then indeed, the municipality hardly tends to change its own registers and exclude its own residents. There is probably not much energy for this activity. But when such information is received, it will be checked through databases or other channels. Well, at least that's a chance the local governments should have, it seems completely rational. In the case of procedural decisions, the inclusion of the [draft] on the agenda was consensual. Two members of the Commission opposed the presentation and two members also opposed the completion of the first reading. The completion of the first reading was supported by Mr Kivimägi, Mrs Loone and Mr Mölder, Mr Odines, Mr Storm and Mr Võrguship, against Mr Grünthal and Mrs Puustusmaa. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U109	But it seems that everything is clear and there are no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please! This time on behalf of the Group. [Since there is] first reading, there are only representatives of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! This bill is a time series to be observed, and this time series is actually worrying and even frightening. This time series shows very clearly that 30 years of immigration policy in Estonia, population policy, the policy of building a nation state is being questioned, under attack. Perhaps it would not be necessary to be so concerned about this bill here if we did not see other warning signs. Only recently were we adopted here under the pressure of the coalition and in violation of the law, the shame on the board of the Riigikogu, the shame on the legal expertise of the Riigikogu, the law on aliens, the President of which demonstrated that he was not an independent arbiter, but a puppet, and also announced at the second attempt. This is all shameful, it is all worrying, because it shows that what has been multiplied all the time in this Chamber, that Estonia is the rule of law, is not true. The law can be numbly broken. This is done by the legislator itself, and it is not the one who should be the guardian of the law, or the President, who is not paying attention to it. It's all ugly. Now we have here a draft which essentially imposes an accounting obligation on local authorities over the population. Are you kidding me? This account must be held at the border. This account must be kept in the population register. The Police and Border Guard Board must stand up for us to know exactly who is coming to Estonia, how long he will stay here, what he will do here, what his background is, whether he is a security threat to us and when he will leave. When the minister answered one of my questions, he said, "Yes, there will be so many, but there will be so many." What are we, a hose or something? Is Estonia some kind of population hose, that somewhere in the east [of the people] comes, flows through Estonia, there are a few holes in the hose, there's a little bit puddled, a drop by drop on our floor, and then the rest, this basic mass, pops out of the pipe somewhere else? Well, that's not normal talk, is it? It's not normal politics. This suggests that in fact the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board take a formal view of their most important obligation. I know perfectly well that it's the fool who doesn't find the reasons. The minister comes here after the remote and says everything's a lie Helme said, and it's actually all right. I don't remember what a philosopher of Enlightenment it was, John Locke, who said we lived in the best of all possible universes. See, the Republic of Estonia is the best part of all of its conceivable universes. And that, of course, is due to our current sunrise government. So, well, I know everything's being pushed over. Yesterday, we heard here again how the leader of the solar government shattered about the way the EKRE maintains some sort of pure-bred register. Some extremely stupid, vile, deceitful talk was made. Well, it's not like it's bothering anybody, it's not like it's bothering anybody. But what is disturbing, and which should disturb the Minister too, should disturb him so that his backskin is literally itchy all the time, is that Estonia is Russing, Russing day after day. Yesterday, I was watching "Actual Camera" -- I'm looking at it with a deep disgust, because it's... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U111	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U112	... fallen to the lowest level of "Vremja" when there was already complete stagnation and "Vremja" came from the banner. The younger generation doesn't remember what "Vremja" is at all. But among our people, the "Actual Camera" called Cannel media is doing exactly that kind of vlamorous propaganda. And there in the vlamy propaganda were yet again stories of how Ukrainian war refugees find it so difficult to get a job in Estonia. Think, they want to speak Estonian! Think about it. It's horrible. In the 30th year of independence, the Republic of Estonia wants them to speak Estonian! Nurses who go to hospitals [for work], you can imagine they can't do it in Russian, they must have some kind of support staff to help them cope because they don't speak Estonian. Even some freight charger in Maxima has some kind of supporter who can help him cope without the Estonian language. Dear friends, this is the destruction of the nation state! Don't you see? 40,000 Russian-speaking people have come to Estonia in two and a half months and we worry about them. And then there's a government crisis because one party, or three parties or even four, sorry, four parties want to raise child support. Think of what a huge scandal! 250 million [EUR] to war refugees, as they say. What about your kids, your wives? No, we won't find that money, it'll be at the expense of the future. The same children and grandchildren would pay for it. It's a scandal! Such a party must not lead the country, and it will not be in the leadership for long, because these war-popular flowers will fall down soon enough and people will understand what kind of disaster is being cooked for them. Mr. Secretary, I am personally addressing you. Now, be a minister, work on political leadership. If you are not comfortable with the course of Russification that has been undertaken in Estonia under the leadership of the Reform Party, protest, put your hand between them. You have employees. You are under the command of the defence police, which should be very clear, that dear friends, we have about 200 people coming across the border from Russia a day, and we do not see any security risk. The Department of Defense is subject to [you], the Police and Border Guard Department is subject to you. Now take this thing seriously and close the border. Check those who come here. Check those who are already here. And do not demolish the nation state, do not demolish the Estonian language and the position of the Estonian language. By the way, the leader of the sunrise government did a great deal of genius yesterday. He stated that 85% of Estonia's population is made up of Estonians. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Well, that's the way it would be! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U113	There are no more calls in the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. There are no other proposals, so we have finished our first reading and I will set the deadline for the submission of the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U114	Our fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Fertiliser Act, the Chemical Act and the Product Compliance Act (614 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Fertiliser Act, the Chemical Act and the Product Compliance Act. The purpose of the Act is to bring the Fertiliser Act, the Chemical Act and the Product Conformity Act into line with the new EU Fertiliser Regulation, which replaces the Regulation in force so far, which regulates mainly the production and placing on the market of mineral fertilisers. The new EU Fertiliser Regulation is part of the Circular Economy Package adopted by the European Commission at the end of 2015, aimed at increasing the competitiveness and sustainable growth of the European Union and creating new jobs. One of the policy objectives of the EU Fertilising Products Regulation is to promote the production of fertilisers derived from organic or other raw materials, such as animal by-products, in line with the circular economy model, by transforming several by-products and waste into nutrients for plants and thereby reducing dependence on imported raw materials. The EU Fertiliser Regulation harmonises and modernises the requirements for the production and quality of fertilisers marketed in the European Union and opens the single market for products such as mineral and organic fertilisers, organic mineral fertilisers, soil improvers and others. Therefore, compared to the current law, the scope will be substantially extended. The current system, based on a list of pre-defined types of fertilisers, which inhibits product innovation, will be replaced by a more flexible system, a linear economy model-based production will be replaced by a circular economy model and for the first time the EU-wide limit values for heavy metals will be set for fertilisers. The main provisions governing the marketing of EU fertilising products are set out below in the directly applicable European Union Fertiliser Regulation. At the same time, the optional harmonisation of the rules on the fertiliser market will continue, i.e. Member States will have the possibility to maintain national rules and the fertilising producer will have to choose whether to produce fertilisers complying with national requirements or to align its production process with the requirements of the EU Fertiliser Regulation. In the first case, fertilisers can only be marketed in Estonia, in the second case throughout the European Union. Thus, according to the draft, the definition of fertiliser is clarified, the information provided by economic notices for fertilisers produced in accordance with harmonised European Union rules changes, supervisory powers are amended, penal provisions are amended, the chemicals law and the product compliance law are updated, and legal clarity is improved. The changes proposed by the draft act will affect those fertiliser producers wishing to produce and market their production in accordance with the EU Fertilising Products Regulation. At the same time, it will take time for new fertilising products to enter the market, as they will need to be analysed and evaluated first. The emergence of conformity assessment bodies is a prerequisite for the entry on the EU market of fertilising products, but this process is progressing a little slowly in the European Union. In the first place, under the new regulation, fertilisers that are already marketed under the EU rules to be repealed will be placed on the market. In addition, the possibility of marketing fertilisers complying with national requirements remains available. The EU Fertilisers Regulation and Fertilisers Act do not regulate the use of fertilisers, but the changes allow the introduction of new fertilising products on the market and the marked increase in the fertilising nomenclature is positive from the perspective of the fertiliser users. Thank you for your attention. I hope that the Riigikogu will process it in accordance with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U116	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U117	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There are such interesting tricks here. I ask you [about] that the website of the Ministry of Rural Affairs has the following definition of fertiliser: a substance or preparation used to supply nutrients to plants. And now it's going to be like this new animal, an apology for my expression, like "fertiliser product." Please also define fertilizer product in Estonian alongside fertiliser.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U118	Fertiliser product is a product intended to supply the plant with nutrients and to improve the uptake of these nutrients.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U119	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let me ask you a little bit more. Here, just last year, we talked about the intention of reducing fertiliser use in the European Union, not only for fertilisers, but also for pesticides, and the obligation of a single percentage for all. I will give an illustration that both those who are overweight and those who are underweight will be told that we will now draw your weight down to 50%. How is it now, and does this draft, which transposes the directive, in any way come into contact with these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U121	Let's just say, in a purely legal sense, he doesn't end up. But, of course, with regard to the prospective use of fertilisers at all, this whole society's expectations and environmental expectations are that fertilisers should be used as little as possible and as much as necessary. But what you referred to, after all, to our negotiations with the European Commission on the basis of these general objectives. It is no secret that, purely statisticalally, Estonia is a country that uses less fertilisers than the European average. In my opinion, this is, on the one hand, a very good indicator and must be dealt with further. The essence of this law is to broaden the possibilities for the introduction of various fertilisers, including animal by-products, so that there is clearly more circular economy, not that the waste generated by the production process of a particular product should, for example, be transferred to a dump or paid for environmental charges and so on and so forth. This is the broader grip on why this change is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U122	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U123	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Undoubtedly, all of our current fertiliser management needs to be re-evaluated in the new situation. And everything we call the introduction of the circular economy model is right. But have you also assessed the fact that when Member States start to identify elements for their local fertilisers that can be coordinated, how difficult this bureaucracy can get? Will the bureaucracy of the European Union bite through it? Have you looked at the risks that some time plan for the coordination of [things] is going to be very long? I, in itself, theoretically support this whole approach, but [I am simply wondering] whether any coordination will not run counter to the four seasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U124	Thank you, Honourable Asker! As I pointed out in my report, the emergence of conformity assessment bodies is a prerequisite for the entry into the market of fertilising products, which is clearly a time-consuming process. However, if you describe why it is important for an undertaking to be able to place fertiliser on the market both in accordance with national regulation and with EU regulation, [it must be said that it is essential] that it is the balance between ability and need. This means that if we look at Estonia's context, for example, we can [use] as a specific component and have introduced things related to oil shale as well as limestone and other ash. So, therefore, it is certainly important to maintain national regulation. But the entrepreneur now has the opportunity to assess the regulation he wants to act on. If it chooses a national one, it means that it has had this opportunity at national level, and if it chooses a pan-European one, it will have the opportunity to market across Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U125	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U126	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. On 16 July, this Fertilising Products Regulation, which has already been adopted three years ago, came into force. Tomato or potato doesn't matter what we call it, they want fertilization, [all] with fertilizer or fertilizer. As I read here, the same plant can produce both fertilizer and fertiliser products. Fertiliser is what can be put in the garden and field in Estonia, but it is the fertilizer product that can be used in fields other than Estonian fields. As I understand it, mercury, arsenic, heavy metals and so on, which we use in Estonia, may be contained in the fertiliser, but their maximum level has been set in the fertiliser product. At the same time, products grown either in the Estonian fields or in the fields of Poland and other countries of the European Union move back and forth. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How the Ministry has taken into account this mess that is beginning to appear here as one and the same plant (Director: "Time!") can produce both fertilizer and fertiliser products, but does the production go there and back and reach people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U127	Thank you. I'll start at the end of your question. After all, it is as logical as a dairy plant to produce milk and to produce milk products in a literal sense. These processes are separated, divorced, controlled and meet the requirements, so there's nothing wrong with that. On the other hand, following this addition [the limits] will cover not only fertilisers but also all plant biostimulants, soil improvers and so on. This actually means that the law approaches this [the subject] in a complex way. What you referred to in relation to heavy metals, indeed, these limits across the European Union are established a priori under the new law. However, this does not mean that products have previously been unreasonablely filled with all kinds of heavy metals that are governed by other laws. So, in this sense, things will certainly become clearer and better seen by the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U128	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue on the wave of the European Union and ask in the context of our green turn. We know that fertilisers are one of those groups of goods that fell under border trade. Indeed, this was a problem even before Russia invaded Ukraine on such a large scale, even though it had been riding on Ukraine for years and having fought a war. In this Chamber, no one has been able to answer how we are now controlling the entry of fertilisers from third countries into the EU market so that they are fairly taxed. In this case, are these directives trying to do so, or has it been abandoned that it will come from itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U130	Thank you, dear questioner. This is not the subject of this law, but I understand the question and understand that the context is important. Throughout the negotiation process and in relation to the implementation of a possible energy turnaround and the introduction of stricter environmental requirements, the European Union plans to implement a system of quotas that should ensure equal competition for our producers in relation to different environmental requirements, including those whose generic name is "footprint." These regulations are under development. But when it comes to Europe, including Estonia's high dependence on, for example, Russian fertilisers, it was almost 70%, Europe as a whole, including Estonian entrepreneurs, are looking for alternatives. One part was also linked to the high gas price, which suggests that certain fertilisers may actually remain as inputs in a rather [cold]. On the other hand, when we talk purely about cereal cultivation, grain prices are also high enough to compensate for [the fertiliser price]. Although yes, at the level of a particular company, this balance may be positive, but in some cases also negative or zero. This certainly cannot be said macro-economically. But it is unthinkable that we put our companies in conditions of competition in which they have been completely unfairly treated. So in this case, when we implement these European Union objectives, the balancing moment is, we will talk artificially or figuratively, on the border, extremely important. This is what this potential environmental footprint is all about, and so on and so forth. This actually means that the whole chain will be monitored for environmental conditions or impacts on the environment, where and in what way this product has been produced.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U131	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U132	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have an old subject to discuss in this context. We all know that before [entering the European Union], the budget line of [the] Ministry of Agriculture had a theme called "Lurking the knees and using the ashes" in the state budget. Now, following the [acceptance] of the European Union, we have had an argument as to whether it is allowed or unacceptable State aid, namely whether ash is a fertiliser or not a fertiliser. How far has this dispute gone in this case, and could oil shale ash, for example, in the context of this law, be a fertiliser-like product?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U133	Thank you, good questioner! When we are talking about a new budget period and the lumbering, it is clear that there is an optional additional aid for lime lime in acidic soils in support of environmentally friendly management. The planned unit amount is about EUR 50 per hectare, but lime is not supported if the main soil of the field is more than 30% peat soil. So it's in this component. As regards cooperation between science and business in order to make better use of the oil shale ash in the future, I would say that research has certainly not finished. And this framework law, which is now being adopted throughout Europe, also applies to the procedure of our Parliament, provides the possibility to produce similar products in the future when certain other environmental requirements are met.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U134	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you! I now ask the Rural Affairs Committee for Andrus Seed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U135	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for a very meaningful report and the staff of the Ministry, who also made a presentation on the Commission. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this draft law in two sessions. At the first session, this was on 9 May, we were briefed by Tarvo Järve, Deputy Head of the Plant Health Department of the Ministry of the Land, Sigmar Suu and Deputy Head of the Plant Health Department. I don't think I'm going to open these things up here, because it seems to me that the Minister made a much more substantive presentation today, along with a round of questions and answers, when we discussed it in the committee. At the second Commission meeting on 10 May, the Rural Commission took procedural decisions. Members of the Commission: Merry Aart, Ivari Padar, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Andrus Seed, Aivar Viidik and Chairman of the Commission Tarmo Tamm. Basically, only Helir-Valdor Seeder had a question: why shorten the deadline for proposing amendments to five days? Commission Adviser Marin Daniel said that the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows this to happen. Procedural decisions were also taken: to appoint a member of the Rural Commission as the representative of the commission, a speaker here (consensus decision, everyone I read); to propose that draft 614 be placed on the agenda of the plenary today (consensus decision); to propose that the first reading be closed (also consensual) and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May 2022 (by 5, against 1 or Helir-Valdor Seeder and with 0 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U136	Looks like there's no questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 614. I do not see any other proposals, so we have finished our first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U137	Our sixth item is the first reading of draft [State Assembly Decision] No 616 of the Committee on the Environment, amending the Riigikogu Decision on the fundamentals of climate policy to 2050. I would like a presentation by Yoko Alender, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U138	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have tabled a proposal to amend [the decision of the Riigikogu] 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' by the Committee on the Environment and I will present to you the content and procedure of this proposal in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. The fundamentals of climate policy have been adopted by decision of 5 April 2017 and adopted on the basis of § 20 (1) of the State Budget Act. The fundamentals were agreed on the long-term vision of Estonian climate policy and sectoral and economic policies that set our path to climate change mitigation until 2050. Our objective, as agreed in the original version, was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050 compared to [emission levels] in 1990. Today, steps have been taken to actually achieve climate neutrality by 2050. We have done so at European Union level, where we have endorsed a long-term strategic vision such as 'A clean planet for all'. In 2019, the government at the time formed a position on this issue, which was confirmed by the European Union Affairs Committee on behalf of the Riigikogu on 14 October of the same year, and with which Estonia supported the establishment of a climate neutrality target across the European Union by 2050. The current government action programme also states that a plan will be developed to achieve climate neutrality in Estonia by 2050 and will be set as a national target. It is also important that the long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" approved by the Riigikogu in 2021 has been drawn up. Also in this strategy, which we have recently heard reviews of in various areas here, for example, late last night we heard the Environment Minister review, we have already set the goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. The content of our draft is to modernise the document on the fundamentals of climate policy, rewording points 1 and 2 of the fundamentals, ensuring that they are consistent with the previously mentioned documents, which have already been approved, i.e. with the aim of achieving climate neutrality in Estonia by 2050. The second proposal we are making is to remove point 11 from the fundamentals of climate policy, which specifically deals with oil shale, because other energy carriers are not specifically mentioned in the text of the fundamentals. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is also specifying in the energy economic development plan the role of oil shale in energy up to 2035. The draft we are presenting is coordinated with both the Ministry of the Environment and the Strategy Bureau of the State Chancellery. I will now briefly talk about the debate in the Commission's sitting. We have dealt with this issue twice in the Commission. First we discussed the draft on 2 May. All the members of the Commission took part and I briefly explained the background to them. The background was the same as I have presented to you here: it is necessary to modernise the fundamentals of climate policy by aligning them with the strategy "Estonia 2035" and with the aim of climate neutrality across the European Union. We also had Triin Reisner from the State Chancellery Strategy Office, as the State Chancellery is known to be dealing with such large development documents, with an overview of how such long-term planning works in the country. Triin Reisner felt that the draft was certainly appropriate and necessary. A number of stakeholders have also called for sector-specific targets to be set in the document on the fundamentals of climate policy. But it is a process that really is long-term and needs a separate debate. We also discussed that since negotiations on the climate package are ongoing and that both during the discussions of the Riigikogu and during the discussions of the government have expressed the desire to have clear sector-specific objectives, one way forward is to develop a more precise sectoral plan in cooperation with the Green Policy Steering Committee. However, this may not be acceptable as a document by the Riigikogu on the fundamentals of climate policy until 2050, which is indeed such a document of fundamentals and which should, of course, also be in line with the strategy "Estonia 2035." Peter Ernits found that this was, in a sense, a cosmetic change. I certainly do not regard this as a cosmetic change; rather, it is that we have, in essence, already approved this objective in other documents during a number of governments, and now the fundamentals need to be modernised. Peter Ernits also found that he should not take point 11. We also discussed why we wanted to do so. We have also discussed this proposal with the Minister for the Environment, who has come with a proposal that could be done in this way and that oil shale issues could still be rewritten more precisely in the energy management plan. Triin Reisner added that at the level of the Riigikogu "National Development Plan for the Use of Oil shale 2016 He felt that it was disproportionate to mention only the use of oil shale in the document, since other energy sources had not been identified in this way. He also mentioned that the new development plan for the energy economy will indeed be discussed in the Riigikogu. That would actually be on my side more or less [all]... Oh, we had a second meeting, of course, sorry, we're on time now, it was on 3 May. We made procedural decisions and there was a small debate that preceded the decisions. Peter Ernits examined whether any new government would change the decision on the fundamentals of climate policy. He also found that it was worded too generally and it was as if it was too distant in purpose. As chairman of the committee, I confirmed that this is not a draft initiated by the government, but is indeed a document of the Riigikogu and that this amendment we will initiate as the Committee on the Environment. We decided to submit the draft to the plenary session by 10 May (by 6 members, against 1). In case the Riigikogu Board adopts the draft and appoints the Environment Committee as the lead committee, we proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the first reading on 17 May (also by 6, adopted 1). We also decided to set the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 27 May (votes 6 to 1) and, if the first reading of the draft takes place on 17 May, to propose that the first reading be stopped (also by 6 to 1) and to appoint Yoko Alender as the representative of the steering committee (vote 6 to 1). Well, I guess it's all been wired now. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U139	Thank you. There are questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have discussed climate policy here several times before, and indeed we also tried to create a bigger debate over [Pack] 'Objective 55', but unfortunately it remained more within the European Union Affairs Commission than reached this Chamber. The subject in itself would certainly deserve a very broad debate and it is somewhat regrettable that we are here, as fundamental issues as we are today, discussing these changes in a relatively small circle. But here's my question. Indeed, we introduce two changes, leave out the oil shale and increase our ambitions. What's all this about money? Has anyone taken this into account in connection with the changes? And has anyone thought about how the current Russian aggression could affect this whole process? Or is it just a slogan we accept?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U141	Thank you for your question. Well, whether it's just a slogan is for all of us to do what we can in the future. In 2019, before Estonia approved the objective of climate neutrality formulated in the development strategy for 2035 above the European Union, an analysis was commissioned from the Stockholm Environmental Institute. Whether the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 is technically achievable in Estonia and what the costs could be. The analysis was also presented in this Chamber, if I am not mistaken, in my opinion the large hall was introduced, I might, of course, be mistaken. But in the Committee on the Environment, it was certainly [introduced], and also in the political groups, it was introduced. As far as the cost side is concerned, the summary was that this is technically all possible. Of course it's necessary. But it was also said that the later we start, the more expensive it will be. The amount reported was 17 billion until 2050. These are generic data. Of course, circumstances are constantly changing and the effects of war are constantly being analysed in ministries. But I don't think anyone can predict that exactly. I must add, of course, that this is not all my response we discussed in the committee, and I should stick to the Commission's debate here. But it really is such an interesting subject that I think it may be right to have this debate. My personal opinion is that war actually accelerates many of these processes. The war has very painfully brought to us this reality or its perception of reality that resources are not inexhaustible. Much of the natural resource we have used up in the last 20 years, 40% of the natural resource. Production per person has doubled in 20 years, and there have been many more. Population growth is insane. In this way, the climate debate, the energy debate, which is being held all over the world, cannot and will not be followed very closely, it seems to me that the war is accelerating [the development of this area]. The President of the Republic of Estonia also recently made such a statement at the Green Reverse Conference of the Confederation of Employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U142	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Climate neutrality is such a very interesting thing, it is a very long process, there is a great deal of positive and negative, it depends very much on the Member State and its conditions. These arguments cannot be argued that who is in favour and who is opposed. But my question is this: what is the link between climate neutrality and food production? Has there been any analysis of [the] things that result from it? I see a lot of negative here when we go out of balance like this. I'm sure we could use some analysis here. Are there any analyses, and if so, where can I get to know them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U144	Thank you for your question. Food production was certainly part of the same analysis carried out by the Stockholm Environmental Institute in 2019. Perhaps this fundamental contradiction, which was also mentioned here yesterday during the Minister's presentation, this most fundamental contradiction between [of one side] biodiversity and, on the other hand, the use of natural resources, is where there is balance. On the one hand, we need agriculture to produce food; we need forests to use wood resources to produce long-term products to link emissions. On the other hand, nature needs to preserve the diversity of species, or biodiversity, which is disappearing because of the same process that mankind has grown very quickly and is very busy with natural resources. In Estonia, of course, the production of food, I dare say, is not as intense as in many other regions of the world, and we are still quite close to nature, and we have a very large and good potential to produce food also in very close to nature, the growth of organic farming, all such topics. But, of course, searching for an equilibrium point is a continuous process that we can no longer do without if we want to continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U145	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U146	Good manager! Dear waitress, I in the Commission did not understand the meaning of this whole thing. The Riigikogu has taken a lot of decisions through the ages and now, years later, the wording of a single decision... By the way, late last night, we discussed the fundamentals of climate policy quite thoroughly. How do you feel about this sort of exaggeration of one decision and its repeated rewording in eloquence at this point in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U147	Thank you. I think that if we take the view that laws and national documents are no longer updated at all, we could all get out of here. Personally, I think, and in fact, it was also during the debate in the Commission, that, since Estonia has indeed committed itself and decided that achieving climate neutrality by 2050 is possible and necessary, it is in [letter] both in the strategy "Estonia 2035" and in the European Union documents, it is very correct and only right that it should also be modernised in the fundamentals of climate policy. If we were to find that the fundamentals of climate policy, if there is no need for a document, we should repeal it as a whole. But I do not think so, and there has not been such a debate in the Commission either. I think it is very important that we also set this objective in our fundamentals document.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U148	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am actually concerned, too, but not so much about Estonia's capacity. I believe that the Estonians have always been better and more committed than many others, we are fulfilling our obligations not 100%, but usually 120%. But I do not see such [behaviour] for our good partners in the European Union, and this actually raises questions. Well, really, with the previous item on the agenda, we have been asked about border trade, and no one in this Chamber, not even on the coalition side, has been able to adequately answer how we will then force our good partners to make the same effort as we have. We know that Germany bought bloody Russian gas until the last day and tried to show that it was greener than our timber. These examples can be cited in a row. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How can this be resolved by border trade still so that (Director: "Time, Heiki!") Everyone's gonna be equal to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U150	This, once again, goes beyond the framework of this draft, for the sake of protocol I will add, and certainly beyond the framework of the debate in the Commission on this draft. As far as border trade is concerned, the climate package contains very concrete measures to manage border trade by giving an advantage to a local environmentally friendly approach. What will be its results and will it be adopted unchanged? I don't know how to make that assessment today. I'm sure it's important. If I can afford another personal remark, it seems to me that there has been quite a significant shift in the world: most countries are taking climate change very seriously, because they are just so [remarkably] present and they are quite painfully felt in many parts of the world. And they actually make decisions. Of course, it takes a lot of courage, a lot of knowledge, a lot of backbone from decision-makers, everywhere. I guess these requirements here are valid for us too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U151	Heiki Hepner has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U152	Yeah, a procedural question. Dear President, the rapporteur said that this [question] came out of the scope of the current debate. For the sake of protocol, I would like to say that it did not actually come out. Everything that concerns climate policy is directly and unambiguously the subject of this draft. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U153	Yeah. The first reading is a stage in the debate on the political implications of this draft. You got it right. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm sure you're familiar with the term "blood diamond." It is [related] when diamonds are mined and child labour is used in Africa. Still, it is [aware] that at all costs they try not to use these blood diamonds. It is now known that cobalt as such is one of the main constituents of lithium-ion batteries and that its price has increased extremely [a great deal]. Unfortunately, child labour, such as in the Democratic Republic of Congo, is used to obtain and collect cobalt in a primitive way, so that the leading industrialised countries can make products out of it. I ask this question: are the fundamentals of climate policy trying to rule out the use of the so-called 'blood cobalt', as has been done with blood diamonds?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U155	The fundamentals of climate policy, neither in their current form nor in the draft proposal, have addressed this level of precision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U157	Good manager! Good waitress! You said, in answer to my last question, if we didn't do this pecking, we could get out of here. But by tomorrow, your government will have put four complete drafts, including an additional budget to a vote of confidence. And when I asked you how many drafts you could put in the whole session, [all] that exists, you shouldn't be here at all. The Reform Party and the Centre Party can do what they want, without any discussion, [others] chew the lawn. How do these things fit together? We are now picking one point from a previous decision, and tomorrow we will put four drafts in this case, but the day after tomorrow maybe seven, to a vote of confidence and no debate. How do they fit together?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U158	Thank you. Well, I do hope that our debate here could be [in substance]. I would like our debate in this Chamber to be as substantive in all matters as I believe that, as a rule, we have had an environmental debate on climate policy. I think we mostly have a very intelligent and substantive debate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U159	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U160	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a curious question. Whenever we talk about the climate package, we bring out the Stockholm Institute. For me, the Stockholm Institute is a relatively biased institute with conclusions. Why don't we talk about Kiel University, for example? Why are we not talking about the University of Wageningen, in the Netherlands, where there has been a great deal of analysis, for example, of food production, of how much is the reduction in food production that happens to nature, what happens to soil? There are many such analyses [made]. Should we not look a little wider than the Stockholm Institute alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U161	Thank you for your question. This particular study was commissioned, I assume, as a result of the procurement in 2019, during the previous or previous government. I believe that the Stockholm Institute for the Environment simply offered the best price-quality ratio. I have no reason to believe that they are somehow biased. Their methodology has certainly been verified. I think that, as far as other studies are concerned, food security and food production could certainly be looked at in greater detail as well. Just this analysis, which has been made specifically in relation to the achievement of the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, is the most comprehensive and concrete analysis that has been available to me and the Riigikogu as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U162	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I asked you [on] "Blood Diamond versus Blood Cobalt" and you said that this was not the case. But now we are in a very interesting situation where we do not use or try not to use diamonds, the design of which is linked to the use of child labour, children crawling in the gears and falling under the collapses, but [we use] cobalt, which [for mining] has exactly the same conditions and uses child labour. If I remember correctly, 2,000 children lost their lives in mining these cobalts last year. So this is not a climate revolution, it is a blood revolution. I'm sorry for the expression! How can we afford such a thing? Tell me! And you say we don't deal with these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U164	Thank you for your question. I am relatively confident that the use of child labour is regulated in other legislation at both European Union and Estonian law levels. And I really hope that this will be done appropriately.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U165	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U166	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. At the beginning of this week the Minister of the Environment Erki Savisaar was here and he discussed Estonia's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." Among other things, he mentioned that environmental and climate issues have greatly increased demand for professionals in this field. Keeping and finding experienced and widely qualified people is one of the prerequisites for all these good goals to be achieved. Has this come up in your discussions on the future of the climate package? Do you consider it important that we have prepared experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U167	Thank you, good questioner! That's a very important question, I think. And I would like to mention from yesterday's debate, in which the Minister gave an overview, that he was dealing with this [theme] from the point of view that we have so many new major activities that also require an environmental impact assessment, and we do not have enough specialists who can do this job, they are overburdened. If I look around myself, having been very, very active in this area for over a year, the number of environmental specialists who want to hire companies and who are needed in the public sector is indeed significant. If I could recommend something to a young person who cares about all of this, I would certainly suggest that you consider learning about the environment [in specialties]. This requires a great deal, and it requires analytical synthesis skills, [skills] grasping both a large and a small picture. In the Committee on the Environment, we have not really had any specific discussions on what the preparation of environmental specialists is. Perhaps we should discuss this in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. However, from time to time, the existence of specialists in the Ministry of the Environment's own administration [the question] and whether their wages are competitive compared to those paid by the private sector when the demand for specialists is so high. But it seems to me that the interest of young people in this area is also very high, so maybe these hands will get together somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U168	Thank you. There are no more questions. Then there's the negotiation. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Young guests on the balcony, don't leave, it's gonna be interesting. But I understand everyone has a program. The members of the Riigikogu also probably had a lot to do yesterday as well. It is a pity, a little bit, that this important subject is going to so many empty places because, in fact, it is very timely in society, the whole issue of climate policy, and it is precisely we in this Chamber that can and at times even must question the ambitions and statements of various scientists and interest groups. But what we cannot fail in any way is decisions. Decisions are needed, and the Fatherland is clearly of the opinion that this debate, even if a couple of words are to be redrafted or updated, is necessary in any case, because otherwise we will not move forward and this debate will probably not be held or supplemented in this Chamber. At the same time, life does these corrections, perhaps even more than we would have wanted or could have anticipated. If we think back a little, then indeed 2017 was the year that we jointly tried to formulate [climate goals]. Since then, we have been living in the COVID crisis, which taught us, in the context of the whole changed world, that public health is a very important issue and certainly the glooms of climate policy decisions in it are very strong when we think, for example, about air quality, about the emergence of new viruses and much more, we cannot even talk about everything. But this [crisis] also undoubtedly affected our attitude that teleworking is possible. You don't have to travel long distances every day, fly thousands of miles to hold a discussion, debate and make decisions. What's more, working collectives have quite embraced it. So this new reality of our mobility has come to real life. There is no doubt that the new context in all climate science is linked to Russia's aggression in Ukraine; the whole world interacts with it in a sanctioned way. The issue of energy security has become a top priority. It is even somewhat surprising that we made big words, I dare say so, throughout Europe about how fossil fuel is bad, but we did not really have a plan to decouple ourselves from this fossil fuel. Russia has certainly been a very strong pusher and leader of the whole climate change package, which they probably never dreamed of. I think this accelerator is very necessary and this spike is so strong. It is, in fact, human lives that force this plan to be speeded up. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U170	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U171	Thirdly, we do not talk about this every day, and I do not think there is even a reason yet, but we need to think about it and prepare for it, and this undoubtedly concerns the whole issue of food production and the problem of food production in the context of security. We know we need to feed ourselves, but also someone else on another continent. This intensive agriculture is a problem, but it is also a solution for something. We have clearly built our security policy here in Europe on the principle that these countries and nations must be maintained and built where they are actually located. And we need to make it very clear to ourselves that if we cannot guarantee food aid, it will cause another problem somewhere, the next wave, it will be in the form of refugees or something else that we have to deal with right here on European territory. And whether we like it or not, saving our climate and wanting to save our farmland, the whole food production sector, while wishing that it would become more friendly to man and the organism every day, there would be fewer pesticides and other chemicals, yet we see this other problem in favour of the fact that if we tighten up food production, we will create a new problem somewhere. In short, we try to find a balance every day in the Fatherland. Stepping one way or the other, we could fall off the rope. This is the worst thing that can happen, because when countries start throwing themselves under some kind of problem, the troublemaker is probably automatically thrown overboard, because sovereign national decision-making powers prevail. And that's the way it's supposed to be, because that's how the world order is built. We actually have good examples in the energy market today, where we have reached, with very clear messages, that the big countries are saying that yes, security and change in the energy sector are very important, but let us not deny the importance of local resources. Whatever this local resource is, whether it is coal in Poland or oil shale in Estonia, a hat trick is actually happening in an instant and we are ready to rewrite these great things in order to cope. That's the problem. We need to discuss, we need to argue, we need to agree, and if necessary, we need to try to change these agreements together. But we must never forget these great words that we are never alone. No one can carry out climate policy alone either, because it is actually a security issue. Undoubtedly, we must do our part, but we must also listen to our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U172	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U173	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I was just looking at our national development plans, and these time horizons were on welfare, defence, transport and so on. We have a document such as "Estonia 2035" and now we are talking about fundamentals until 2050. Twenty-eight years will be there. This is a decision of the Riigikogu, adopted on 5 April 2017 and signed by the lost Eiki Nestor, who disappeared from the Riigikogu. That decision has 36 points. Thirty-six points! And now we come here, on the proposal of the Chairwoman of the Committee on the Environment, by changing three points. What do these points mean? The first and second points shall be reworded and the 11th points shall be abolished. Let's see what the first point of the decision at the time says: "By 2050, Estonia will have a competitive low-carbon economy. The country's preparedness and capacity to minimise the negative impacts caused by climate change and to make the best use of the positive impacts have been ensured. " I'm not going to read the second point. But if you look at the first and second points of the decision of the Riigikogu in 2017 and compare them with the two points offered by Yoko Alender, what does he offer? The overlap is at the first point, both here and there, in the fact that by 2050 Estonia will be competitive. That's all. I read what was in the [2017 Decision]. But what does Yoko offer? " [By 2050, Estonia will be a competitive, climate-neutral country with a knowledge-based society and economy, with a high-quality and species-rich living environment and preparedness and the ability to reduce the adverse effects caused by climate change and make the best use of the positive effects. " Such a round pink talk. If you look at the second point that was in 2017. [In the decision of the year], and the current one Yoko has offered, there are only three words, "Estonia's long-term goal." The Yoko variant reads: "The long-term objective of Estonia is to balance greenhouse gas emissions and removals by 2050 at the latest and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to zero by then." Now, if you analyze the first and second points, then [it can be said that] the honey is actually put on the sugar or vice versa, maybe jam too. Three times it has been said that in 2050 [Estonia] should be climate-neutral. The first point states that Estonia is a climate-neutral country with a knowledge-based society and economy, and the second point repeats twice that greenhouse gas emissions and removals must be balanced. Third, it is added that by then the net greenhouse gas emissions will have to be reduced to zero. So the same thing is said three times in two points. Whether it's needed and what it's for, I don't understand. In addition, the 11th paragraph of the 2017 text on oil shale is intended to be removed. I will read it out because it is not stated here [in the draft]: "The use of the shale is moving towards the production of products with increasing energy enhancement and higher added value in order to minimise greenhouse gas emissions from the oil shale treatment process in a way that does not result in any other negative environmental impact. The ewe gas generated as a by-product of the production of oil shale oil shall be used for the production of electricity and heat energy, with the aim in the long term of producing as much as possible of liquid fuel, natural gas or other products from ewe gas.' Why do you have to lose it? This actually corresponds to the current situation. If you look at the situation...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U174	Peter, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U175	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U176	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U177	... where we're in a war somewhere, it's not known how long it lasts, and its effects have reached here, so we don't know what we're doing with oil shale. The price of a ton of greenhouse gases is already so high, it has been said. Until then, it is possible to use your oil shale calmly and later to bind it and so on. I think it's pointless to take that 11th point out. In addition, there are many other things here when we look at the decision of the 2017 Riigikogu. The last point [provides] that every four years [must be reported]. The Minister of the Environment did so late last night, and it should be every year. But why isn't it marked? Why has 12 points, for example, not been amended, which refer to the use of market-based mechanisms and the continuation of trading with quotas? After all, Taavi Aas has said that Estonia has proposed that this matter should be viewed the other way around. Yesterday, too, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, it was said that, in fact, the price of this quota should be fixed at a low level and thus the price of electricity could be significantly reduced. So all in all, it seems to me that we're doing nose pecking at a time when we could be doing something else. I am not questioning climate neutrality and moving towards it because pure nature and all the beauty that Yoko has formulated at the first point, a knowledge-based and peaceful world, who would be opposed to it? But [there is no point] in coming up with this initiative now, too, as last night or evening we here with the Minister for the Environment discussed the implementation of the report 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050'. In my opinion, the matter should be dealt with, not peck your nose and rephrase [the said] nicely. Instead, we could talk about how we are dealing with water supply, a serious issue, we have spoken about these problems and other things in the Committee on the Environment. I think it's a substitute. As Yoko said, if we didn't discuss it, we might not have to be here. Let me remind you that tomorrow we will discuss four... Or will not be discussed, these are the four important drafts relating to the vote of confidence. We've been told by the government that there's no need to discuss it. Just take it or leave it. This is the current reality in the Republic of Estonia. It's pretty disgusting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U178	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U179	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I am forced to make some clarifications on the basis of the previous report. First of all, I am pleased [because] I feel that all the performers have felt that this is actually a necessary goal. I think that the fundamentals of our policy, our documents, are in line with our goals, are certainly not nose pecking, but it is just normal democratic organisation. I must also say that the wording in the first point is not my personal creation. Thanks to Peter for the point, but that's not really the case. This wording comes from the Estonian 2035 strategy document. As far as these other proposals are concerned, we are currently at first reading. The deadline for amendments is 27 May. This is indeed an important issue. The time frame of the fundamentals document is long and the level of generalisation is large, but I think that the members of the Riigikogu will be able to grasp it and will be able to communicate at both the level of high values and decisions and great picture and, if necessary, at the level of very small details. If there are proposals, of course we can discuss them during the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U180	Peter Ernits, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U181	Yeah. I'm glad my name was named. I could not say that the circumstances are actually changing so quickly, and given the current arrival of Slavic people, which has taken place in a few months, perhaps the amendment of the Preamble to the Constitution should also be initiated, so that by 2050 the words 'Estonia must ensure the survival of Estonian nation, language and culture through the ages' maybe it is already outdated by [the idea] by 2050 and perhaps some other committee should be dealing with it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-05-17_U182	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 616 be completed. There are no competing proposals here, so the first reading is closed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 27 May at 12 noon. Today's [session] agenda is exhausted and [session] is closed. Thank you.
