ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Tuesday session of the 10th working week of the VII plenary session. Members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity and right to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please! That doesn't seem to be what we want, so we're going to run a presence check. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U2	70 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. We can do today's work nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U3	The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appointment of a new member." I'd like a presentation by member of the Environment Committee, Kaido Höökelson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu took place on Tuesday 22 March this year. The first point was the submission of a draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of a new member." On 21 March 2022, the Estonian Centre Party Group has proposed to the Committee on the Environment to initiate a draft decision, the content of which is the proposal to recall Martin Repinski, a member of the Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation, and to appoint Mr Tõnis Mölder as a new member. Subsequent procedural decisions were taken. [First, to propose that Martin Repinski, a member of the Riigikogu, be recalled from the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation. Secondly, propose to appoint Tõnis Mölder, a member of the Riigikogu, as a new member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation. Thirdly, to submit a draft decision to the Assembly on 23 March 2022. Fourthly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda and the final vote today, 5 April 2022. And fifth, appoint me as the representative of the commission, Kaido Haevalson. All the decisions were consensual. A majority of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U5	Colleagues don't have any questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U7	I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appointment of a new member" submitted by the Committee on the Environment 563. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U8	The proposal is supported by 72 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U9	Our second item today is the presentation by the Minister for Social Protection of 2022 on the implementation of the State's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035." Minister of Social Protection Signe Riisalo, please present. But before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to remind you that there is a procedure for processing this point: first the presentation of the minister, up to 30 minutes, [after that] each member of the Riigikogu has the right to a single oral question, and then the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations. At the end of the debate, we will not take a decision. Madam Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm glad to see you here in so many places, last night the lines were somewhat thinner. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is that better? Very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U11	If the hall slows down, I'm sure it'll be even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U12	Very good. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Every country's greatest asset is its people. If there weren't people, there wouldn't be a country. In a rapidly changing world, it is important to keep up with the times and to ensure that our people are kept and happy. Although Estonia is not among the ten happiest countries in the world, the welfare of the Estonian people has increased in recent years. The Ministry of Social Affairs is working to provide people with a socially secure and happy living environment. The activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs are divided into three different development plans that support the implementation of the "Estonia 2035" action plan. The Ministry contributes mainly to two performance areas: well-being and health. In these areas, we have set goals for ourselves that we are moving towards on a daily basis: that the people of Estonia are smart, active and healthy and receive fast and high-quality support when obstacles or realising risks that a person cannot cope with on his own. The "Estonia 2035" strategy has given the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Protection the main tasks of 2021 to address three major issues in depth: the comprehensive development of a system for supporting mental health and reducing mental and physical violence, the development of integrated provision of human health and social services and social protection design and the modernisation of cost models, taking into account societal changes and the negative demographic situation. These tasks and objectives will be key priorities in the area of social protection over the coming years. Good listeners! The Estonian people must be a growing nation and the welfare and quality of children and families will increase. Estonia's population is declining and we are projected to have about 1.2 million by 2035. Different national authorities, ministries, higher education institutions and other partners are extremely serious about demographic and migration issues. In order to map the areas of concern and find possible solutions for the survival of our people, we have formed a Committee on Population Policy which has actively addressed these issues. Migration is an important part of the population processes in Estonia and new migration routes often open up in a tense security situation, which means that it is important to know the needs of the state and to be aware of the risks involved. Demographic progress of people has led us to think about how to create long-term benefits for society. The key keywords here are good getting along between different nationalities and broad-based integration. At the last meeting of the Committee of Government on Population Policy, the measures developed in cooperation between the various ministries were introduced to integrate new immigrants into our society and to help those who return to adapt. Although this "Estonia 2035" strategy does not explicitly provide or even know how to see it, as a flexible and kind country, we also need to find ways to adapt our decisions to the changing world, regardless of the strategies recorded. Today, we need our help and attention from the war refugees from Ukraine. The Estonian community abroad is estimated to be nearly 200,000 people, with whom we can establish wider contacts in the world and to whom we can support their return by keeping the door open. Estonia is internationally known for its generous parental benefit scheme. Many countries have taken an interest in our experiences and applied similar principles to their own systems. In family policy, in recent years we have paid attention to improving the system of parental benefits and leave. Last week, now on the eve of the day, Parliament adopted amendments to the Family Benefits Act, which allow children who have been declared bankrupt in relation to a parent liable for maintenance to receive up to EUR 100 maintenance aid every month, even during bankruptcy proceedings. The new law provides an opportunity for parents to share more freely and flexibly the time that each parent can use to care for his or her toddler. Public family benefits help to cover the costs of caring for, raising and studying children. We have worked consistently to increase the proportion of fathers among the beneficiaries of parental benefit. I consider it particularly important that the rise in child benefits and support for a family rich in children go hand in hand with the increase in the cost of living, so that the benefits help families equally in the future. This principle is also enshrined in the long-term development plan for the sector. In order for Estonian families to be happy and ensure the best future for their children, we contribute much to parenting. Studies show that parents need and want more advice and help in raising their children, but do not know where to turn or dare to ask for help. Developing programmes to support parental education for parents of children of all ages and improving access to cross-Estonian opportunities are important activities. We are actively pursuing current activities, such as the Parenthood Program "Wonderful Years" and the Smart Elder website. We also help various specialists dealing with children and families on parenting to support parenting through both counselling, training and the helpline. It is important to create prevention and family work centres, or family homes, where families are provided with appropriate and professional help in raising children, parenting and partnering, and supporting the development of children in a timely manner. There is no doubt that we cannot forget the different processes arising from the European Union here. I stress that European processes are not an obstacle to our lives, but are a good opportunity for countries to implement reforms and their own priorities with additional support from Europe. A good example of this is the child guarantee, which aims to ensure that children at risk of poverty and social exclusion have access to the services they need, such as childcare, health care, medical care and housing. In the action plan, which we are presenting in a similar way to all the other Member States of the European Union, we have linked the planned activities to the "Estonia 2035" strategy and to the current developments to support the well-being of children and families. On 1 September of this year, the State Family Conciliation Service Act will enter into force, establishing a national family mediation system. The goal is to put the child's interests first when the parents decide to separate. The family mediator helps outgoing parents to enter into arrangements for the welfare of the child, both out of court and at an early stage during court proceedings, bearing in mind the development needs of children. It is important to support parents so that they can cooperate with each other in the event of disagreements, as the conclusion of out-of-court agreements prevents problems from escalating and exhausting litigation. This year, the first flight of national family mediators ended, and they are people who contribute to restoring or maintaining a close relationship between parents and children in a situation where parents are separated. Children, their interests and their well-being are and must always be at the heart of the dispute. As in other areas of life, the shortage of social workers, professionals and service providers is a major concern in the social field. I would like to thank the Estonian Social Work Association here, who is actively involved in training both professionals and post-growth, and in shaping values and promoting tolerance. I would stress here that social workers are also frontline workers who are in daily contact with the most vulnerable groups in society by providing support. It must therefore be empathetic, responsive, flexible and responsive. He or she must be as well prepared as possible to enter the labour market by a professional in his/her area, who will receive a remuneration corresponding to his/her degree of responsibility in cooperation between the state and the local government. Aligning the skills and knowledge of social workers with the expectations and needs of society is among our priorities for the coming years. We must not forget the most vulnerable groups in our society - people with special needs. I am pleased that in recent years we have been extremely successful in involving people with special needs in society, for example in terms of opportunities in the labour market. Everyone wants to feel valuable and contribute to society. It makes people richer and happier. In order for people with special needs to remain active and feel good in the future, children must start to provide them with the best opportunities for a full life. We want to reform the support services provided by children with special needs. One of its activities is the decoupling of the right to access services from the severity of the disability, so that in the future the family in need of assistance can be supported through services as early as possible, to prevent the problems from getting worse and the possible degree of disability to develop. It is important that every municipality is aware of children in need and that the state supports the availability of quality support services for each child based on special needs where he or she mostly visits home, kindergarten or school. In this case, the parent can concentrate on his daily work as well as on other children in the family. Evidence-based assistance supports the livelihood of the whole family. To support family and parents' livelihood, we develop a nursing and care service for children with high care needs, which gives families of children in need the opportunity to rest. The reform of support services for children with special needs is a good example of the destruction of silo towers and excellent inter-ministerial cooperation. I hereby congratulate the Ministry of Education and Research, with whom we are moving towards similar objectives, both now and in the future. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We need to reduce gender inequality and poverty, and we need to act to increase gender equality and greater social inclusion. One of the main challenges of equality policies is understanding and valuing the principles of gender equality, equal treatment and accessibility and successfully integrating into all policies. In order for major developments to take place, it is necessary for the country as a whole to understand the responsibilities of the various parties and to have an interest in developing the field. Last year, the government decided to support the implementation of a cross-ministerial pilot project, the systematic and targeted development of which the Ministry of Social Affairs is developing a model of organisation. Although the gender pay gap has narrowed strongly in recent years, it is regrettable that Estonia will continue to be the country with the largest pay gap in Europe in 2022. To reduce the pay gap, it is important to reduce gender segregation both in education and in the labour market. In the fast-growing ICT sector, women represent only 23% of professionals. Although this figure is higher than the European Union average, we cannot accept it as a digital state. In recent years, the Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out and is carrying out a number of innovative research projects which focus precisely on this issue: how to find new ways of reducing gender segregation in education and the labour market, based on a "pulling" methodology? I am delighted that private companies, research and public authorities have increasingly begun to think about how to ensure a working environment that supports gender equality and values diversity and how to work flexibly, whether on the issue of wage transparency, on the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market, or on family friendliness, for example. Since 2017, we issue labels for family-friendly employers, and last year the Ministry of Social Affairs recognised a variety of companies. We respect the differences between quality labels. We will continue to do so in the future. In all these activities, the Ministry of Social Affairs wishes to be a supportive partner for both the private and public sector as well as civil society organisations. We attach great importance to the promotion of equal treatment and the protection of equal rights. We have committed to updating both the Equal Treatment Act and the Victim Assistance Act. In the near future, we are renewing the victim support system. The Riigikogu is also able to contribute to this area by supporting the Equal Treatment Act, through which we can ensure that different groups have access to even more opportunities in both work and private life. In order to implement all the important changes and new ideas, the country needs good cooperation partners. I would like to thank the third sector. Disabled people, older people, the LGBTQ+ community, non-governmental organisations for gender equality and human rights, and the Alliance for Child Protection thank you for supporting the country and actively standing up for the protection of these people's interests! I believe that the strategic partnership set up by the Ministry to strengthen interest protection organisations and to play a more active role in policy-making will help us further towards a more caring, inclusive and equal society. I would also like to mention here the remarkable years of work of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. They have contributed to raising people's awareness and providing advice and support to the most vulnerable groups in society. Recently, Parliament passed the First-reading Products and Services Accessibility Act. I am convinced that the Riigikogu understands the importance of involving all Estonian people in everyday social activities. To date, access to products and services has continued to be difficult for a certain part of the population for various reasons. Technical solutions have been one of the reasons why a part of the population has not been able to study, work or be involved in society in any other way. Even people with special needs, who also need to be able to use different electronic products and services, cannot be forgotten by the dramatic development of technology. More inclusive solutions benefit people with disabilities, children, the elderly and anyone who has a temporary health problem that does not allow all senses to be used. As a society, we need to move towards accessibility and universal design as an integral part of public space and services, not as a special solution. In Estonia, 20.7% of the population live in relative poverty. Children's families, single-living pensioners and single parents are particularly vulnerable. Our task is to ensure that people are able to cope economically, and it is therefore important to raise the level of subsistence as soon as possible. Last week, we confirmed in the government that this year's pension increase will be 7.9%, which means that the average pension will rise to EUR 595 and that is the case from 1 April. Compared to an increase of 1.6% last year, the increase in pensions is significant. From 1 January 2023, the pension will become exempt from income tax and there will be an extraordinary pension increase. We have set the goal of a steady increase in pensions, which will ensure that older people both feel more secure to cope with the current circumstances and improve the overall living conditions. It should also not be forgotten that the exceptional increases in pensions will also contribute to the acceleration of pensions, which will also affect pension increases in the coming years through indexation. We will do this through a number of different steps and, of course, it will also be supported by better social tax receipts. We want to increase the general well-being of older people, which means that a person should not worry about everyday activities or pharmacy supplies. Undoubtedly, pensioners living alone who live in the greatest relative poverty cannot be overlooked. This is due to the fact that pensions are often the only source of income for people of old age, and paying for increasingly expensive products and services is becoming an ever-increasing challenge. This year, we raised the support of a single-living pensioner from EUR 115 to EUR 200, and in addition, we are preparing a draft plan for the development of proposals to improve the social security of pensioners living alone. In addition to pensioners living alone today, I am also concerned about future pensioners. As a result of the optionalisation of the second pillar, a large part of the assets collected as a pension have been used up before the retirement age, making it difficult for many people to cope financially. It is certainly important to act to raise people's awareness of the collection of financial resources and the planning of financial resources. It is important that people prepare for old age throughout their lives. This helps to cope independently and with dignity in old age. A changing world around us sets new conditions for us to adapt to as a country. Both ageing and changing forms of work require the modernisation of social protection policy design and cost models. We cannot forget that Estonia's population is an ageing population. The proportion of older people in society is increasing and the number of taxpayers is falling. As a result, the burden on the state is increasing and it can be seen that, in the wider sense, the Estonian pension system needs more reform. In order to assess the more precise effects of pension changes on different target groups, we will analyse the Estonian pension system in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance by the end of 2022 and make proposals to alleviate the situation. It must give us a guarantee that in the future, people will be independent and, with the support of the state, materially ready for their old age. We need to talk about mental health, which is becoming more and more important in our lives every day. Mental health care must be accessible and of high quality, based on a person's needs and consistent support for both those in need and those close to them. Last year, the Government of the Republic approved a Green Paper on mental health, which aims to contribute more to the prevention of mental health problems, early detection and timely access to quality assistance throughout Estonia. As a result, the Ministry of Social Affairs is working daily on integrating services and developing cross-sectoral cooperation to ensure assistance for all who need it. Since last year, psychiatric assistance is also available to minors. Care centres and health care facilities are open to the possibility of receiving support from the spirit care providers. This year, both the mental health department and the nationwide 24/7 mental health hotline began working. In addition to these, we created a community psychologist's wage subsidy and mental health service support measure for local authorities and primary health centres. We will continue to promote and support mental health in the coming years, as we will see how important this is for people's full and healthy lives. Over the last few years, the issue of long-term care has been acutely raised in society, taking into account the increasing care burden on loved ones. Estonia is facing changes related to the ageing of society. Our population is shrinking, the proportion of older people in society is increasing, but unfortunately, our parents also need more help for everyday activities than their peers in several European countries. We therefore urgently need a reform of long-term care. The Riigikogu recently passed the Act on Social Welfare and the Amendment of Other Laws... I'm sorry! The Riigikogu deals with the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws. As an amendment, for the first time, it provides for the concept of long-term care and specifies the role of local authorities in identifying the need for support for people with a care load. In addition, the provisions of the Family Act are amended to exempt secondary relatives from maintenance obligations. Perhaps, in essence, the grandson no longer has the responsibility to support his or her grandparents. In the case of long-term care, there is also a significant level of self-interest in paying for care, which has increased dramatically in recent years and which significantly increases the risk of poverty for people in need of care as well as for their loved ones. In cooperation with the Centre for Monitoring Development, we have mapped out possible solutions and set the target of switching to a component-based financing model for general care by 2024 and, in addition, we are paying more attention to prevention and digital solutions. The central principle of Estonian social welfare is to support people's independent and dignified lives at home for as long as possible. Our direction is that a person must receive services as close to home as possible and the provision of assistance must be organised at local level as a matter of priority. The path of assistance must be structured on the basis of a person's complete need for help and preferably starts with a local government where the need for help is assessed and directed according to the services of the local government or state. Getting help must be as bureaucratic as possible, reducing the administrative burden on the person and his/her loved ones, and the journey to provide assistance must be easy to understand. However, the estimated need for home services continues to be higher than the capacity of local authorities and the state to provide it. However, it is a pleasure to note that we have been able to provide financial support to local authorities in developing and providing services that reduce the burden of care. A coordination project has been successfully implemented in several Estonian regions, which combines the provision of social and health services for people with a high need for help and avoids a situation where the person is left without the necessary help. In preparation, the housing service has been supported for older people who are no longer able to cope at home on their own, but whose secondary needs are small and who need help in only a few operations. I thank the local authorities for their efforts and cooperation so far. Dear Riigikogu! The decisions taken today will affect us, our parents and children in tomorrow, five, ten and 20 years' time. Toomas Hendrik Ilves has said: "Our tomorrow is up to us. "I am here today to move towards all these objectives together and in cooperation with you...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U13	Madam Minister, could you move a little between the two microphones? Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U14	Yeah. Thank you. I'll come back to the beginning of the paragraph. Toomas Hendrik Ilves has said: "Our tomorrow is up to us. " I am here today to move together and in cooperation with you towards all these goals, so that the Estonian person is caring, open and forward looking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U15	Okay. Let's move on to the questions. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let's say that if we look at the topics of the Estonian population now, this area is also your property, then we are, we can still say directly, in a population crisis, where our population is decreasing. It is true that money is not the only condition for increasing birth rates, but we cannot ignore it in creating a sense of security. I also looked at the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2021 to 2023. It says that we pay special attention to single parents and families with many children. I ask: is it intended to index family benefits or to index children's benefits? Inflation is actually wild right now. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U17	Thank you very much for your question. We also discussed this issue at length last night as a last item on the agenda. As I have explained to you, creating an environment for children to be safe and good to raise has been our goal. Similarly, increasing the participation of both parents, increasing the flexibility of parental leave. However, we have not at present dealt with indexation in order to ensure that child benefits are linked to this. And as I reported here today to you this whole picture, there are more groups that need the attention and support of the state. Among them are older people, of course single parents. However, the measures that we implement in the country as a whole also support the coping of these groups, such as an increase in income support or a reduction in the care burden so that families can work. And still, the child's guardians are primarily both of his parents, I stress: both parents, including separated parents, are obliged. There we are offering state aid in the form of maintenance aid, which we have also extended to the group that has been excluded so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U18	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Minister! The maintenance of the basic principles of the "Estonia 2035" strategy is followed by a number of indicators, but the coefficient of cohort in this strategy is the most important indicator for the population. I don't know the latest numbers, they're not publicly available, but they can be calculated. Anyway, with cohort coefficients, basically in the same rhythm, the total birth rate is moving, which, as you know, we have catastrophically low based on these latest data. The question is: do you know the changes in the various cohort coefficients of recent years? These are the same indicators that we should now assess your actions, or at least your starting points, in the context of the strategy. Do you know them?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U20	I don't have those numbers with me right now, but of course it's background knowledge, which is why we can plan activities. The data set for 2021 is not yet complete, it should be completed in April, as is the usual statistical data in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U21	Good luck Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U22	Thanks for the review. The state supports families with a wide range of grants. One of these is the multiple benefit paid for multiple births, which is EUR 1000. Otherwise, one child will be EUR 320. And the second is multiple support for triplets and multiples of more than 1000 euros until the children reach 18 months of age. Unfortunately, there are twins out of here who are similarly multiples, and the birth of two children in the same way brings unexpected costs to families. Here's a suggestion: can we find a solution for helping twin families to enjoy this double joy? Perhaps [some coefficients could], for example, extend the same grants to twins.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U23	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, it is true that a single birth grant is also available to the twin family, but the longer-term allowance is not available until the children reach the age of one and a half. I'll take that idea from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U24	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This brief review states that you have convened a government committee on population policy, which aims to develop solutions for the survival of the Estonian people. I understand here, and I very much hope that you are talking about the Estonian people, because the other nations will survive anyway. But there are few of us and the share of the Estonians in our population is falling rapidly, and the faster the more security situation is getting critical near us. Do you also have any concrete suggestions as to how the Estonian people, those who are Estonians, would survive these crises and the provisions of our constitution regarding the Estonian people, language and culture would not become an empty historical document, which the 200 Estonian leaders Kristina Kallas, who are already very close to your liberality, have advised to withdraw from the constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U26	Thank you for your question. I presented the work of the Committee on Governmental Affairs yesterday on the last item on the agenda, but I can also repeat it here. Two meetings have taken place and a third meeting of the Government Committee is coming next week. The first meeting in August gave an overview of the objectives of the Commission's work and the vision and contribution of each member of the Commission to this work. Similarly, family policy priorities and the current state of the population were outlined. The topics to be dealt with in the future now became the current issue of migration and adaptation. Adaptation is extremely important here, and Estonia's diaspora is also important. It was up to the welfare development plan to introduce and discuss the population to which we will come next week in the Commission. A second meeting took place in early February, when the Commission received an overview of migration, global Estonianism, measures for new migrants and returnees and plans to improve them.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U27	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You also said in your speech that Estonia is a country with an ageing population, and unfortunately so it is. Would you highlight some of the more important changes you wish to make during your term of office or start, which would give our young people confidence in the creation of a family and contribute to the birth rate of children? What could these be, and how can we measure, in years' time, that these proposals worked?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U29	Thank you for your question. I am delighted that two consecutive days have similar issues under consideration, and perhaps [maybe] here to sort out a little bit of the airless issues yesterday. One possible solution for population policy, so that we have more taxpayers, is to encourage older people to work. It is true that older people in Estonia are at the forefront of work activity in Europe, especially Estonian women. Similarly, it is important to note that the Estonian pension system is flexible and, by delaying retirement, the pension received later is also higher. So we have all these motivating levers. Which doesn't mean they can't be improved and they can't think about [other] additional [skills]. This is where I come to the issue of working for people with reduced working capacity or who have partial working capacity. This is one of the possible solutions that we are trying to push through with very different measures so that people with reduced working capacity can participate in the labour market. Long-term care is not only a question of how we are able to take care of our elderly or people with special needs, but it is also a question of releasing family members from the excessive care burden that gives more people to our labour market. We are talking about a larger package of different measures that will help to tackle the shrinking number of working age. Mental health is certainly an area in which [essential] would still be desirable. One possible approach there is to introduce changes to the Health Service Organisation Act, which today expand the possibilities for people or professionals who provide services in the private sector to offer more services from the resources of the Health Insurance Fund. But there's more of these bigger and smaller things. Let me remind you that the time given to this government is not too long and the process of amending laws is long-term. But that's something else this year would try to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U30	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U31	Good minister! From 1 April, the amendments that provide for 10 paid holiday days until the child reaches the age of 14 have entered into force on an individual basis for both the mother and father. The press has said that children whose parents have died can take both parents' vacation days as a caring parent, so up to 20 days in total. However, if the parent is raising the child alone because the other parent is not involved in the child's life, this single parent cannot use all the holidays on its own, because unused days cannot be transferred to each other by the parents. When will such unequal treatment be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U32	Thank you for your question. I'll take that question from here. I will discuss with my experts at the Ministry whether and how this situation could be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U33	Mr. Chef, what's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U34	Thank you. I have a request: since I couldn't get a syllable answer to what would give young people confidence to start giving birth to more children in the future and to have a family, maybe the minister will answer another question if it's all right, which could be a couple or three things to raise the birth rate of the children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U35	Yeah, well, it wasn't procedural. On another occasion, as a recommendation, you also have colleagues from the group here that maybe they can recall this in the course of the questioning, then there is no need to raise the procedural question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U36	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I read your brief overview, the year review, a total of 50 lines, this haiku-style. Could have been a little more respect for us and also give a more comprehensive overview of the writing that all the good you have done. Since there's only one question, I can only ask one question. Last week, 4228 war refugees arrived here. You said we were ready to integrate them. Now, if you take the 9th of May, well, any day, for example, according to my calculations, it will continue like this, then [by then] there should be 45,000 war refugees here. What's your prognosis at this point? I repeat, the last week [was] to 4228 refugees of war. How's this going to go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U37	Thank you for your question. The integration of all those who have arrived or are still arriving here is important and is largely dealt with by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. The number one is language learning: adult language learning The Ministry of Culture and education in Estonian for children is the property of the Ministry of Education. That's the first half. On the other hand, it is not polite to answer the question with the question, but actually, do we know what will happen in the Ukrainian war and how many more people will move out of Ukraine in order to find a safer temporary place to stay? Unfortunately, we have no answer to that. But if you ask what forecasts the Ministry of the Interior has made and which forecasts we are looking for solutions to, today we are looking for solutions for 50,000 refugees without knowing what the situation is going to be. We have also seen that people have created a two-way movement on the Polish-Ukraine border. There are more coming out now, but there are also going back. I have also made a similar observation in Estonia when I visited accommodation facilities and reception centres from here, too, a few families have moved towards Ukraine. We don't really know what the situation is going to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U38	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have beautiful things on your paper that priorities are people's well-being and health, but real life is different. I was approached by a citizen such as Helle Silvia's Home, who was forced to leave her place of residence due to the termination of the rental contract, and because she has reduced mobility and also various other health problems, she was forced to go to the women's shelter. Since he had few personal items, he asked for help to be provided with transportation so that photo albums and clothes could be taken away to the women's shelter. But from the Mustamäe Social Department, we were told not to arrange transport, and that's how things remained. How is it possible for us to bring thousands of people from the border with Ukraine, but there is no transport for people at two bus stops?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U40	Thank you very much for your question. It is quite difficult to explain and answer individual cases here. I understand this is the Mustamäe district government. I wrote it down and I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U41	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U42	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'd ask for a little clarity. The development plan sets out the objectives to be achieved. The Action Plan sets out actions to achieve their results. These activities will be monitored to find out what needs to be changed, what needs to be improved in order to achieve the objective. I would ask you this question: would you give some clarification as to what are the short-term, medium- and long-term objectives in relation to the development plans of this action plan and how monitoring will be carried out so that activities can be adjusted? Just so you're clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U43	Thank you. The long-term goals are the sustainability of our people, as it has been said here that Estonia would no longer be with a shrinking and ageing population. I also introduced short-term activities to everyone in my presentation. These are different legislative proposals, as well as the use of the European Social Fund to improve the lives of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U44	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Each person's success in life, including social success, depends on a wide range of components. One important prerequisite is the way to school, education as a whole, the possibility of completing the level of general education and professional training. As we know, there are many young people in Estonia who do not study or work, and this number does not indicate a tendency to shrink. In your presentation, you mentioned cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Please, if possible, give an idea of how much cooperation is being or could be done between ministries so that the number of NEETs will be seriously reduced by 2035 so that they do not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U46	Thank you very much. However, this part of cooperation on early school leaving is mainly a matter for the Ministry of Education, just like basic education. But what's next in terms of age, we're talking about NEETs. The field of NEETs is largely divided between the Minister for Health and Labour and the Minister for Social Protection. The Unemployment Insurance Fund plays a pretty important role in dealing with NEETs, [they provide] various services and measures. Similarly, for many years now we have such a smart electronic system that collects information from different databases and sifts out young people who are not working, not studying, not in the Defence Forces, and not in the parental benefit recipients, i.e. those who are not engaged in such logical activities. As a result, the notice goes figuratively to a local social worker who contacts these young people and does normal social work, which is motivating, explaining, showing services, and also directs them to an unemployment fund that already has services specifically intended for these young people. But obviously, mental health also plays a very important role here, because often those young people who are excluded from social life are in trouble with other problems, and our great goal is to create services where we can provide services to young people who are difficult to behave at an earlier age. Today we have multidimensional family therapy; today we also have a rehabilitation service for children with a great need for help. But these services, including 24/7 services, we're trying to create more.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U47	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U48	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In your report you referred to the fact that, from 1 April this year, the average pension will rise to EUR 595 [EUR 6], true, EUR 95 will be subject to income tax, as well as to the fact that the care burden is very high for people, the costs and the costs of caring are increasing. Previously, you have pointed out that last year and also this year in the Committee on Social Affairs that, on the basis of the analysis, solutions and component funding are going to be used and this autumn the drafts are in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. 50 million local governments have been told. Now, from this subject paper, which is really relatively scarce, but concrete, I read that we have set ourselves the goal of moving to a comprehensive care component financing model by 2024. No 2023 is the election, 2024 is the target. The hope was that this would happen in 2023, when component funding would start.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U49	Thank you for your question. I have in no way retreated from what has been said before in the Committee on Social Affairs and what I have said in this Chamber. My goal continues to be that, from 2023, it will be possible to implement component-based funding for general care services. Its price is in the order of 50 million and, in addition, there are two smaller and slightly less resource-intensive activities: providing additional leave for informal carers and social tax incentives for carers in order to motivate them to work. In this time frame, we work to make it possible in 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U50	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Social Democrats once took an important step in the government that children's benefits were significantly raised and thus saved a great many children from the risk of poverty, indeed, the number of children [risk] reduced. Children's benefits have not been raised for years now and today's price increases are likely to have a very strong impact on the livelihood and well-being of very many Estonian children. It is important not only to support large families, but also to support families with one or two children, because in the end, having children starts with one child, it is, and then there will be another child and a third child. In my opinion, it is inevitable or inevitable that we must support Estonian children and families now and now. Do you see an increase in children's benefits in the supplementary budget or in the state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U52	A specific question and an honest and concrete answer: no, we do not see it in the supplementary budget. However, we are trying to achieve an increase in the level of income support in the supplementary budget, or I am trying to achieve an increase in the level of income support, which will certainly help the most vulnerable families with children in the same way. When I answered your colleague's previous question that 50 million is what I am taking to the budget negotiations, I am very afraid that priorities must be set. The biggest pain in Estonian society today is long-term care. Long-term care is also something that actually burdens families with children, because we all know that 80% of the total cost of long-term care, which is 100 million euros in Estonia, is to pay for people themselves and their children. So if we can take this burden down from there and free up the family's resources for raising children, it is, agree, a small step, but still a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U53	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your introductory speech, you gave a fairly detailed overview of this area. I have a question. If you think about 2035 there are quite a lot of difficult and difficult problems in your area, for which it is difficult to find solutions. What do you consider to be the most important and important problem and what could be the solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U55	Thank you. The honest answer is that I consider long-term care to be the most critical at the moment, because it is a heavy burden on Estonians. When I said 100 million is the cost of long-term care, it's just the cost of general care. The actual cost of home services, as well as the loss of work income to our society as a whole and to every individual, when caring for a family member or a family member at home, is painful. In long-term care, solutions are certainly not only component-based financing, social tax differentiation or also holiday-giving, but more and more about integrated services between health and social sectors. Similarly, it is very important that we are able to prevent people's great needs for help. Today, we provide services that are suitable for low aid needs, they are home services, or for very high aid needs, which are general care, but in the meantime we do not have too many suitable services. That is why we have planned a call for applications for local authorities from the next period of European funds to create service homes for older people where they can live with a decent life, affordable and with little support.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U56	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I would like to thank you for a very thorough report and for the good work done in the sector, if you look at it, even if the pay of health workers rose at the beginning of this month. But I'm asking about it. The healthy life years of Estonian people have been extended all the time, and at the moment it is 55.9 years. If you look at the end of this long-term strategy, "Estonia 2035," what could be the healthy life years? Is there a prognosis or a personal opinion? Are they increasing or shortening?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U58	Well, you can't do a mathematical thing here in that sense, can you? But I will comment for a moment: not only did the wages of health workers increase, but also the wages of social workers increased. Similarly, it is very important that there was also a significant wage increase in special care, which entered into force on 1 April. Social workers are more of my concern, although, of course, every Estonian person's income is important. The point is that healthy years depend very much on a person's own behavior. However, behavioural change is a very long process and will not be changed by a year, two or four. We are talking about a cross-generational change of attitudes, whether it is a healthy diet, a movement, or something like that, let alone self-destructive behaviour, alcohol and so on [avoiding]. So I think it's a big, big prevention work that is gratefully done by family doctors, social workers and also teachers at school. I very much believe that people want to maintain their health. If they know they're gonna live longer, they're gonna want to live this life alive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U59	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Has your ministry also made demographic forecasts and calculations when, as a result of your government's immigration and labour migration, Estonians will become a minority in their own country, including the persecuted minority that has been displaced and forced to leave their home country on a massive basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U61	Thank you for your question. No, I haven't.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U62	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U63	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Here's the question. We know that the average pension in Estonia is 595 euros from 1 April, and I think we all acknowledge that the calculation of the income tax-free minimum and taking it from pensions is not the most sensible thing. My question is this: why did you [decid] or the government decide that the income tax-free minimum would not be included in the pension? It won't be for a year, but it won't be this year or April 1st. It would be fun and reasonable to do so now, especially knowing what prices have done and how the cost of living has increased. Why didn't we do it on April 1st?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U64	Thank you. From my position, of course, there is the hope that all such changes and decisions, which are favourable to people, will be made sooner rather than later. This was a rather costly change. I am pleased that it has been decided today, also here in the Riigikogu. I will be delighted with Estonian pensioners on 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U65	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U66	Thank you. You said you didn't know how many people from Ukraine are fleeing. Indeed, no one knows, but we know how much our ability to receive refugees is. It must have been February 13th, if I'm not mistaken, if you said that [we'll accept] 2,000 [Pagulans], after that there have been talk of 10,000. What this number is really going to be, [we don't know], but if we have an increase of more than 2% in the number of people living here over a month, I suggest you calculate a little bit just to figure out what time we're going to become a minority. I would like to know what your position is. Do you expect all these people to stay here? This is what integration and education for children in Estonian do, and well, we will be a minority in our country very, very quickly. Or is the goal, though, that these people go back home when the war is over?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U67	Thank you for your question. Maybe the Minister of the Interior could explain it better, but I'm trying to do it. First of all, the legal basis for the presence of Ukrainian war refugees here is the European Union directive on temporary protection. According to this directive, they will be granted temporary protection for a year, which can be extended twice for six months, amounting to two years. Estonian legislation would allow the annual period of temporary protection to be extended twice a year, i.e. it would be three years. The way these people want to act, it's hard to predict, that's not what I'm going to do here. However, I can assure you that there must be grounds for obtaining temporary protection and extending it. These legitimate grounds are linked to the impossibility of returning to their homeland in a war situation. Surely, some of the people who have come here may stay, whether it be because of work, family creation, or other things. It's not very likely that everyone stays here. I've had quite a few contacts myself with Ukrainians, as well as with volunteers, as well as with the Social Insurance Board and the Police and Border Guard Board. However, people have a strong desire to return to their homeland. To one previous question [in response], I also said that the return movement had begun gradually, although yesterday Mayor Kõchko said that it might be a little early to come home, because the areas mined near Kiev could continue to be dangerous for the civilian population. At the same time, all the events that have taken place in Ukraine, I cannot imagine how we could look in the mirror as a people or as a country if we did not accept the refugees of war. Butcha's events. I don't see a chance we're not helping them today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U68	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With my question, I will deal with this painful subject, i.e. ministry as a whole, home care, nursing, home care. We all know that input prices are growing very quickly, but there is no way to catch up with the average salary, to talk about old-age pensions. Do you have an overview of the situation we're in? Input prices are clearly increasing, and the price of the service is also increasing. How can the Estonian people cope with this situation? Is there a need for further financial intervention with the state budget at some point, or is this still a matter of family law and legal certainty guaranteed, each of us having to cope on its own?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U70	Thank you for your question. I cannot resist that the Fatherland's idea of coping with old age is largely linked to the fact that the more children, the more supporters. This was also the reason why the second pillar was volunteered. I do not support this approach, and that is why I am doing the preliminary work so that we can find 50 million in long-term care, specifically in general care services, in order to alleviate the contribution of both older people and their children to financing general care. But yes, we are not only aware of how prices have risen, we are not looking at it afterwards, but we have done all the analyses in advance, so we knew at the beginning of December what prices were going to be this spring. This [situation] is deeply concerned. On the other hand, general care homes are a circle of 50% of local government institutions that are autonomous in their activities and are also obliged to assist and support their population. The general care service is also a social service organised by the local government and 50% is a non-profit and business sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U71	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! Refugees must be helped, [there is] no doubt about it. And the way you support them and feel about them makes it look nice, there's nothing to say. But my question came from your answer to the question of Mart Helme, which gave the impression that you have not analysed the impact of immigration on our population. I have to say, unfortunately, very simplisticly now, but you are not only the Minister for Social Protection for refugees, but you are [are] also our Estonian people. Is there any way you can explain this answer to Mart Helme? Maybe I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U73	Thank you for your question. I was just answering honestly. The war began on 24 February, and we, as a country, have been working very hard today to help, to receive, to do the necessary legal acts for the large and so short period of time to arrive here. Indeed, we do not have a prognosis of what the situation is going to be, which does not mean absolutely that we are not going to do it, if even a little bit of the easing of such, well, now-and-now-work.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U74	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U75	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you for your review. In these answers and elsewhere, you have welcomed the fact that pensions will increase by 7.9% due to indexation. However, we all know that in the energy crisis and in the war we are in, unfortunately, the prices that affect pensioners most, that is, the price of energy, the price of the food basket, unfortunately, will also be significantly higher than that of 7.9%. Perhaps in extraordinary times, emergency decisions should also be made. In this context, it sounds cynical that it was only just before the elections that the government decided to adjust the base pension. Do you not now consider that you could propose that, for example, if only half a year, the basic amount of the pension be increased in order to compensate for the volume of costs that are being lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U76	Thank you for your question. You see, the additional budget we are doing is largely in a situation where Europe is at war, and the costs that we are planning further this year are clearly this year's costs. We cannot make too many long-term commitments with an additional budget, which are lasting and, in fact, in their logic, are growing over time. As a government, we have worked hard to increase Estonia's own security, both in military and civil defence terms. Similarly, we are forced to take account of the costs of war refugees and we are moderately trying to find rapid solutions to help our own populations in this difficult and costly situation. In the meantime, energy support is in place, which the local authorities find quite uncomfortable, but it continues to help people in the most difficult situation until the end of May. We are also looking for solutions on energy issues so that prices are not too high in the next heating period. I therefore believe that today's rise in pensions has been quite significant over the years. Of course, if we put aside the whole other economy, which is not just the Estonian economy, but more broadly the global economy, and the changes in the various markets caused by the war on price increases, this situation will continue to be difficult and must continue to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U77	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U78	Thank you. Dear Minister, In two years, that is to say, the absolute poverty rate for children and adolescents aged up to 17 has increased from 1.6% to 2.7% between 2018 and 2020. Now, if we look at what this is all about, it's the limitations, the loss of work, all the other [problems], the energy problems, and so on. Now, when it comes to rising food prices, food prices have started to rise and it is feared that they will rise exponentially further. How do you plan to raise income support for a large number of families who have already fallen into poverty here, but who are close, say, in relative poverty and so on to help? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Here is another comment: the Social Democrats have submitted a draft to raise child support for all children, i.e. the first and the second [children], from EUR 60 to EUR 100.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U79	If I heard correctly, you were talking about relative poverty among 17 to 18-year-olds? [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Absolutely, 17 to 18. Yes, it is probably the target group that is no longer the recipient of child benefit for the purposes of the Family Benefits Act. You rightly pointed out that the causes may also be linked, among other things, to the time and loss of employment of the COVID-19 pandemic, which means that if a person aged 17 to 18 does not study or work, he has poverty. I can explain it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U80	Heljo Pikhof, what is this procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U81	The minister misunderstood. Just in case, I'm saying I've compared the figures for 2018 and 2020, and [talking] about children up to 17 years of age, not children aged 17 to 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U82	I really misunderstood. I'm sorry! I really got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, Please do not use procedural questions as a second question or an explanatory question. The procedure is still in place for the hearing. I understand that there is temptation, but take advantage of this opportunity when the Minister comes off the remote or, in speeches, take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to it. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! It is clear that in a climate of turbulence, it is very difficult to make any plans, especially long-term plans. If we look at what is happening in the world because of this war, and in Europe in particular, there are signs that it will not end soon. And if this does not end soon, then we must and you, as minister in this field, must look precisely at the fact that in 2035 the Estonian people [in Estonia] would still have survived in the majority. That means you have to think about the worst scenarios today. How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U85	Thank you. The issue of migration is more a matter for the Ministry of the Interior; they, too, are making these forecasts, as well as legislation. However, as I answered you in yesterday's inquiry, migration is one of the main issues that we are discussing with the Committee on Government of the Population Crisis and which we will also have on the agenda next time. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U86	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U87	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The social sector has been in the role of an orphan for 30 years. With regard to people, these people with long-term care needs or children with special needs who actually need our support the most, we have been the most difficult. The plans for the future are very good, 50 million, long-term care and so on, but given the current situation, both the price increase and the pressure of the wage increase, are these planned sums really enough? And how much is shaking about what is planned in the social field, the Russian war in Ukraine, which is an effort for us to deal with war refugees? Does this in any way affect this path or pace, and is the money so far planned sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U88	Thank you very much. Money is never enough, it's always like that. If, as a country, we are in a position to choose which decisions to make, then the war in Europe, I believe, has given us the reason why we need to spend more on defence and protection of the population. We may not like these choices, but I think they are essential today. I do my best in the field of social welfare. Many times have been asked today, and I have answered that I see long-term care as the most difficult place. Of course there are still issues. I have also repeatedly highlighted the inadequacy of the limit of living. These are the things I stand for right now. The time of this government is not long, which does not mean that goals should not be set more ambitiously in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U89	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The war in Ukraine has now been going on for eight years, and during that time the national identity of the Ukrainians has been greatly strengthened. During this war, very many Russian-speaking Ukrainians have taken over Ukrainian identity and, in part, Ukrainian language, and this process is at this important stage of development. Of course, we support war refugees in every way, but my question is what is our fundamental policy towards war refugees. Do we want to perpetuate them in Estonia, or do we want their Ukrainian national identity not only to be preserved, but also to be strengthened so that they can really resist this invasion as a nation, which is likely to last a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U91	Thank you very much. That's a good and right question. As regards Ukrainians' own national identity and, in the case of children, our wish is to ensure that they learn Estonian here and that adults also learn so much Estonian so that they can be active in the labour market because it is necessary for them. If they were to leave here, I think the Prime Minister has said it very nicely, then we have many friends in Ukraine. As far as the preservation of their own language and culture is concerned, the Ministry of Culture also cooperates with the Ukrainian Cultural Centre in this regard. We have discussed the implementation of Sunday schools in order to maintain knowledge of our home, our country, our national culture and, in the same way, our language.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U92	Good Minister, no further questions. Thank you for this report. Let's move on to the negotiations. First on behalf of the Isamaa Group, Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The quality of couples, family mediation, solving and preventing mental health problems, the size of pensions, long-term care and so on and so on and so on, these are all very complex and important issues that are in the hands of the [Social Protection] Minister. But in order not to drown in the maze of these various issues and in the search for solutions, which of course must be done, it is [needed], as the Minister said, to set priorities, because we are likely to arrive or arrive at a time when not everything is enough for everyone. So we really need to set priorities, yes. In our view, the most important issue in this area is population policy, in which we must be statesmen, not day politicians. A rapid decline in the population indicates that Estonia is moving towards a demographic disaster. Population decrease, number of Estonians decreased, share of Estonians in the population decreased. The ultimate result of the demographic disaster is the demise of the nation. Unfortunately, it seems that this will result in a far too far-off future. The government's actions do not seem ready to take serious steps to reverse the rate of disaster in the population crisis, and that is wrong. Our task is to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. However, the government has reduced its questions mainly to what is likely to bring more votes in the next elections. Regeneration of the population is obviously too difficult and it is not as easy to pick votes from there. Families with three or more children are currently carrying the burden of the Estonian nation. If the state of Estonia really cares about its constitutional objective of ensuring the survival of the nation, then steps must be taken to bring about an increase in the birth rate of third and fourth children. The father country believes that the support of third children should be raised to EUR 700 and that separate measures should be put in place quickly to increase the economic security of families with four children. The presentation by the Minister for Social Protection did not show any real steps to promote child wealth. However, one step is: we are calling a government committee on population policy. Members of the Centre Party and the Reform Party, when you came to power, eliminated the position of Minister of Population in the government, dissolved the population crisis in the Special Committee. Now you are saying that the government committee, which has already gathered twice, is an achievement. Well, it's not an achievement! You will dismantle a structure that already had answers a year ago, a plan and a readiness to reverse the birth rate, and today, a year later, you will present two meetings as a winning job. This is not even the invention of a bicycle, but its dismantling and replacement by a scooter. Improving the parental benefit and leave system, which you have spoken about, is, of course, important, as is reconciling work and family life. They make it easier for families with children to cope, but they are not the engine for the birth of next children. On the question of reconciling work and family life, what is the emphasis: is it that a mother returns to the labour market as soon as possible or that she should be as safe as possible to be at home with children and also to work part-time if she wishes? It seems that there is a tendency to resolve the labour crisis, not the population crisis. The population crisis is existential for our country; it is not a labour crisis. Reconciling work and family life must be based on the assumption that the parent's attention is on raising children, which can also be accompanied by work. No matter how effective these systems and investment schemes are, there is nothing to replace a person. Systems can only alleviate human distress and help them to survive more easily, but they do not replace humans. In the future, the level of pensions and social services will depend on how many people we have who pay taxes and support society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U94	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mr Luck Pillak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the coming years, our own Estonian families and the women and children who have come here to look for security for the horrors of war need understanding, warmth and security. They need the feeling that everything is fine, they're kept and they're taken care of. What we have been talking about here today, all of which are necessary tools to create a sense of security for families with children, satisfaction for the elderly and relief to cope with everyday difficulties. But these instruments must be targeted at achieving the desired goals and for those people who are quite difficult, not at the fingertips of everyone, because that is how we can help people in difficulty more. We take care of families with children. Parental benefit, generous as a mother, and safe as a father's hug, is a supportive shoulder for families so that mothers and fathers can be with little ones at once. And that is literally because on April 1, mothers and fathers can both stay at home with their children for up to 60 days without losing their income. Parental benefit that has been made more convenient and flexible over the years offers families ever better opportunities, leaving families to decide which parent stays at home with the child and, if they wish, this option can be changed even during parental benefit. This is just one example of how parental benefit has been improved. We keep our pensioners. Retirement has been a matter for every government. We need to keep up the pace. It is our responsibility to care for our elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, We have made decisions next year to exceptionally increase pensions and exempt the average old-age pension from income tax. The decisions taken have resulted in the most generous increase in pensions in recent years. By continuing to raise pensions with the same momentum, we will arrive sooner rather than later at the [which is] a 1000-euro pension. We support those who are struggling. Income support is aimed at helping people with low incomes who are most in need of state aid, and it needs to be increased. Price increases have made it even harder for their families to cope. We have to help them, and we will. We pay attention to mental health care. Understanding and the need to take care of our mental health have grown as a result of the corona crisis and the terrible war in Ukraine. Since last year, psychiatric assistance is also available to minors. This year, a nationwide 24/7 mental health hotline began. Local authorities and primary health centres have been able to receive public support for hiring and mentoring psychologists from February to ensure that people have access to mental health services and psychologists' help as conveniently and close as possible to them. We help the weak. It is impossible to turn around the events of the last month in Ukraine, which has resulted in over 20,000 people, mainly women and children, having come to Estonia. Just like our own people, they need help and security to cure the wounds that the aggressor's cruelty has hit on them. May the strong help the weaker. They're weaker now, and they need our help. We will help Ukrainian war refugees in the same way as our own people so that they can live a full life here until they decide to stay here. I believe that every person wants to live in peace, to offer his family safety and happiness. If, as a country, we can create a good and high quality living environment where families want to have children, where we care for our elderly, we help those who find it difficult to cope themselves... I'll take a minute, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U96	Let's put two on it, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U97	All right. Thank you. ... where we care for our elderly, help those who find it difficult to cope, maintain people's mental health, pay decent wages to people who care for those who need help and those who are weaker, are friendly and tolerant to one another, then our people are happier, and they are even better off living in Estonia. "Love helps more than fear," says Olav Ehala's lyrics. We remember this and let these words influence us when we make our choices and decisions for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U98	On behalf of the central fraction, Siret Eagle. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U99	Head of the sitting of the good Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister for Social Protection! The primary task of the Estonian state is to preserve the Estonian people and the language and to ensure social security and a dignified life for all Estonians. The main objective of the Centre Party's activities over decades has been to reduce the economic and social stratification of our society and to provide comprehensive support for people living in poverty. Today we are in a situation where Estonian society is shaken by the rise in energy prices, the coronal apandemia and the security crisis. At the same time, we must cope with the flood of refugees arriving here. It is very important that people living in Estonia feel kept. Unfortunately, rising price increases have brought many difficulties in coping. At a crazy rate, fuel, electricity, gas, all services and goods are putting the most vulnerable people and businesses in an even more economically difficult position. Children's and family allowances should also be reviewed today to ensure the safety of our parents. I am of the opinion that they should actually be significantly increased today. Income support should also be increased as soon as possible. The Government of the Republic plans to come to the Riigikogu in the near future with an additional state budget and it is very important that the increase in income support from 150 euros to 200 euros is included. People who are caught between cogs because of different crises in their lives must be protected and today's income support rate has definitely fallen behind the cost of living [because]. It is also time to make the nursing home affordable for a person. The Centre Party very much expects the Minister for Social Protection to come to the Riigikogu with a long-awaited plan to create a component-based financing model to support people with care needs and their loved ones. This means that the person who is in the general care service provided outside the home will pay only one third of the cost of the place in the future; the rest will be paid by the state and the local government. This would essentially mean that a person's pension would be sufficient to pay for a nursing home and that loved ones would no longer have to pay more. Coping with the elderly deserves the country's full attention. I am pleased that from 1 January 2023 the average pension will become exempt from income tax. This change has been awaited for a very long time by the elderly. Also, this year's allowance for a pensioner living alone will rise from EUR 115 to EUR 200, paid in October to pensioners living alone according to the population register. Given the rise in the cost of living and the ever-receiving electricity prices, and the above-mentioned decisions, this is very necessary. From 1 January 2023, pensions are exceptionally increased by EUR 20. Is this decision ever made enough for today's cost of living? I dare to doubt that, and I think that additional funding should actually be found. By the way, from 2004 until today, politicians have exceptionally raised pensions seven times. During this 18-year period, when pensions have been raised seven times, the Centre Party has been the decider of an extraordinary pension increase on six occasions. Such statistics clearly confirm: The Centre Party has stood and will continue to stand firm for extraordinary pension increases. The Centre Party wants an additional budget for the country to support our people and the Ukrainian state and people, including the war refugees, in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U100	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Jaak Valge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U101	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U102	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U103	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I have never thought that the procedure for drawing up these strategies, on the background of which we have listened to this presentation today, would be competent. In my opinion, it is particularly grotesque that strategies can also be changed on a regular basis and, in the case of many development plans, metrics can be added or changed later. Unfortunately, also in the Minister's report, which would have been nice to send to us in advance, so that we could analyse it more specifically, there was no specificity, there was no assessment of the situation on the basis of these metrics, on the few metrics that exist there. I guess I will now try to deal with the work of the Minister for Social Protection myself in the context of this development strategy, 'Estonia 2035'. In the area of the Minister for Social Protection, there is also the planning and organisation of family and population policy, and I am now analysing this area. To begin with, again, I must admit that I do not want to say that now all the criticisms, I very much say, are critical of the point being directed against the Minister for Social Protection. In the area of population, it is difficult to do something positive in [one] year and a few months. It is possible, however, to make initiatives. However, the entire government is responsible for the lack of these initiatives and the policies leading to negative results. And now I'm looking at the basic principles of "Estonia 2035" and three out of five goals. Those concerned with demographic policy and therefore the responsibility of the Minister for Social Protection. I'm just saying, I don't appreciate it at random. I don't judge randomly, but I take these strategy metrics and I'm assessing them on the basis of them. First of all, according to the basic principles of the strategy, the Estonian identity is promoted, the children's beautiful things are valued for the survival of the Estonian population, and Estonian language must remain viable, including as the main language of information, education and work. Maintaining basic principles will be monitored using the following indicators: cohort coefficient, population, including the proportion of people living outside Harjumaa and Tartumaa and the proportion of people using Estonian as native language. Now, I don't know the coefficient of cohort in recent years, the minister himself didn't know, unfortunately, although perhaps it would have been polite to have it calculated before coming before us, because it's the main figure, you know. But although we do not know this, the total birth rate coefficient, which should move in the same rhythm as the cohort coefficient, has decreased, and this is the worst figure since 2003. I have to say again that, of course, the Minister for Social Protection did not have the power to raise last year's figure in any way. But I haven't seen any initiative either, any government initiative to improve the situation. The steps taken to raise the birth rate have, after all, been initiated by the previous government. Next indicator, population. The population of Estonia, as we know, was reduced by 0.12% last year, despite large immigration. Go on. The proportion of people living outside Harju County and Tartu County. We do not know this number again, but it is very reasonable to believe that this proportion decreased as immigration concentrated primarily in Tallinn. I am not talking about refugees again, I am talking about the normal situation that immigration concentrated primarily on Tallinn. And in order not to improve this metric, the government is eager to help, for example, by offering a bonus for the closure of rural schools. All right, let's go. The proportion of people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue, using Estonian, or actually the proportion of Estonians. We do not know the specific number once again, but it is reasonable to assume that it was reduced due to exceptionally low birth rates, high mortality and high immigration. The next strategic goal is a human being. Based on the strategy, the target is a smart, active and healthy Estonian person and the indicator for achieving the target is the number of years of healthy life. We know that the mortality rate increased sharply last year. But we do not know this figure, as I said, and I am not going to speculate here. Forward, next strategic division, society. The goal here is a caring, cooperative and open society. Contacts between social groups and the level of persistent relative poverty are important indicators affecting the population. The first one we do not know, we do not know the contacts, nor do we know any political steps that would have been taken to increase it. And I do not know about you, or the change in the rate of persistent relative poverty last year, but it would be reasonable and logical to assume that it has not decreased, as the strategy set out, because the government's steps to compensate for prices have clearly been delayed and inadequate. So, the third strategic division, the economy. The goal here is a strong, innovative, knowledge-based and responsible economy. Population-related indicators include labour productivity and the size of GDP created outside Harjumaa. I do not know whether labour productivity can have changed. In any case, the government has strongly encouraged its non-increase by the introduction of cheap labour. It is also unreasonable to believe that the size of GDP created outside Harjumaa has increased, at least in real terms. However, it is highly unlikely that the proportion of GDP created outside Harjumaa has increased, and this is still because of immigration. All in all, I have assessed eight figures relating to the population, four of which have gone clearly in a negative direction, and no initiative that would have tried to change their direction or at least slow down them, I have not noticed. Three meters are unknown, another one is equally unknown, but rather moved in a negative direction. I believe that there is no need for comments here, but I would stress that this is not an assessment of the demographic achievements of the Minister for Social Protection, but of the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U104	On behalf of the Socialist Group Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U105	Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U106	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U107	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Undoubtedly, the Minister was very thoroughly prepared today and his presentation covered the most pains in social protection. They are certainly mapped out, and in the future solutions will also emerge, but there are big buts upstairs. We do not generally know when people in difficulty will be relieved, what will happen to people living on the verge of poverty today, how will self-careers endure, how will an elderly person or a person with special needs cope. For six months, Estonia has been living in a vortex of price increases, which has been boosted by the war in Ukraine, and the end of which is not visible. People are faced with heavy heating and electricity bills, and now food products at high prices have become a great challenge. More and more need to be left to those who are difficult to cope with. We know that according to Eesti Pank's recent economic forecast, the price increase will be 10.2% this year, economic growth will be 4% and unemployment will be 6.7% on average. You can read on the website of the Social Insurance Institution that income support is the last safety net that a person can use when he or she is unable to provide for himself or her and his or her family with the means necessary to meet the immediate needs of work or social security systems such as pensions, incapacity for work, unemployment benefit, unemployment benefit and so on. It is true that subsistence support is the lifeline for the most fragile people, and the state and the municipality are helping people in need and in a difficult situation by this measure. For example, in 2020 around 10,000 households were receiving income support. Today, there are considerably more families in need, and unfortunately, looking at today's developments and the rapid rise in inflation, there are even more needy families in the autumn. We are going back in time to the beginning of the year when the politicians of the Reform Party, led by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, repeatedly said that increasing income support would help those who are most in need and who are the hardest. Golden words. Minister Riisalo announced in mid-January that the limit on income support should be increased immediately from today's 150 euros to 200 euros, and at the same time gave the impression that there would be an additional increase immediately. What doesn't exist is action. We are still in the position that the income support limit of 150 euros is calculated for the sole or first member of the family, each subsequent adult family member is 120 euros, the child 180 euros. These sums, however, do not guarantee a livelihood. We are living in a vague expectation of an additional budget, but I hope, and we hope that the income support limit will rise this autumn. That's a good thing to do, but I should have done it sooner. To remind you, the Social Democrats two times in autumn last year requested an increase in the level of income support, because it was clear what the increase in energy prices would do and what the difficulties would be for families and the elderly. In December we also came up with a package, but sadly, the government did not listen. In today's presentation, the Minister stated that 20.7% of the population in Estonia live in relative poverty and added that the task is to manage people economically, so it is important to increase the income support limit as soon as possible. Well, let's hope and wait, it's really elementary and primary what we should do. Next, I would like to dwell on the problem of access to nursing homes, which have been acutely upset for years, and which have been made even more burning by price increases. Here, too, it is necessary to find a solution as quickly and as humanely as possible, which is why we proposed by the draft amendment to the Social Welfare Act to secure a nursing home for those in need of a pension, which means that the missing part of the pension is paid by the state in cooperation with local authorities, i.e. component-based financing. The state must not stand by and watch as both the elderly and those close to them, who are overwhelmed by the cost of a nursing home, are increasingly in trouble. Municipalities help as possible, but unfortunately this is not enough and unfortunately it is very different across Estonia. Time ticks mercilessly, people in need of care and carers need a solution now and now, they cannot wait for many years. This review, which had been presented as points by the Minister, turned out that only in 2024 was the aim of going to a component-based financing model for general care. Fortunately, in the round of answers to questions, the minister admitted that the priority and his wish would be that this would already happen in 2023. Times are difficult, people face even existential concerns on a daily basis: how to buy medicines to put on the table for children for the evening, from whom to borrow firewood. There are thousands of people who are plagued by such questions and are not helped now by knowing that a year from now maybe it will get better. Things that are inextricably important must not go the way that the extraordinary increase in pensions, i.e. the basic part of the pension and the increase in the national pension rate of 20 euros, will happen only in 2023. The coalition remained deaf of the opposition, but also of the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations, that additional money should be found to pensioners immediately, not just before the elections of the Riigikogu. The same is true of the average pension income tax exemption. Children are born of love, but help and support are essential to their upbringing. The crisis-stricken world, today's war in Europe, does not create confidence that families can cope, and this is where the country must come to help. You have to go from words to actions because every child is important, every child counts. And the rise in child benefits, which the Social Democrats have passed on to the bill. The increase in support for the first and second children from today's 60 euros to 100 will actually help families with children's wealth, because there will be no third-fourth children if they are not born first and others. The greatest pension increase in the times announced by the Minister is not the act of any government, any minister, any prime minister. In fact, there is a service for good Estonian entrepreneurs and good Estonian workers, economic growth guarantees a considerable increase in pension based on this coefficient. And indeed, our seniors, in order to cope better, feel independent and respectfully also to allow themselves, apart from a ravaged crisis in health care and a visit to some theatre or cinema, would actually have needed either an increase in the base or an exemption from income tax, because on 1 April, if the average pension is EUR 595, they will continue to pay tax on EUR 95. But in the end. If you realize that you can't get everything at once and you can't get it all in one snap, then you really have to look at the life map as a whole when you set priorities. Telling the elderly to wait again will come when we get these things right in front of us, well, a lot of them don't have a life span that they can wait for. It was nice to read that the years of healthy life have grown. It's a pleasant surprise, because, in fact, life had increased, but years of healthy life didn't. I certainly wish the Minister strength. The Social Democrats have put forward a number of good drafts, I hope that the coalition parties will also support them. By jointly solving problems, we ensure the preservation of the Estonian state, Estonian people, culture and language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-04-05_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, with this, all the political groups have kept their speeches. We have made good use of this point and, with it, we have run out of points on the agenda today. We'll see you again tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned.
