ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We're gonna start the briefing, and first we're gonna do the presence check. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U2	At the moment, 27 members of the Riigikogu registered for office. Today's Question Hour is attended by Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, Minister of Health and Labour Tanel Kiik, and foreign minister Eva-Maria Liimets, who is not here yet, is also invited. So, we have a total of 14 questions, which is why we are allowing an additional question on the ground. And as usual, there are two minutes to ask a question and three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U3	The first question is asked by Indrek Saar from Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U4	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! As my question statement states, the topic is still the energy crisis, probably impossible for anyone in Estonia to overlook today. You have obviously proved able to lead the government at a time when a very large part of the Estonian people living today, the analogue of which probably does not remember. Older people will probably remember this from somewhere in the long-term, from the very beginning of the nineties, when Estonia became independent, this uncertainty and uncertainty about what prices can and how to cope with it and how to finally get bread on the table. This is clearly one of the most uncertain situations for 30 years in terms of people's ability to cope. I'm sad to see that, as your head of government, you've given the impression that you don't really care how people do this day. I read in the paper again that it is necessary to think in the long term that these short-term things are not important. At least the Centre Party is trying to make it look like they're doing something, but the result you're agreeing on is one big mess. And that's what people are saying very rightly. For example, the mother of a large family says that it's crazy, complicated and embarrassing. An experienced official says one of the most bureaucratic of all time. A well-known member of the Centre Party says that this is an incredible humiliation that you are doing today, and it is certainly very ineffective, because 10% of this money is spent on bureaucracy. Do you really not have any better solutions in mind, or is the talk that the Centre Party is saying giving hope that you will come up with a simpler, more dignified and more effective solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U5	Thank you. First of all, all members of the Riigikogu have a good continuing year, that there is really a chance for you to start this season too. This energy crisis has hit everyone very hard, in that sense I absolutely agree that it is difficult. People are complicated and this is a serious problem. I am absolutely not tossing the short-term solutions that we have tried to develop and we have developed. But we also need to think about long-term solutions. Now for short-term solutions. In order to help people, we have actually decided on four things with a total volume of 240 million. Firstly, the exclusion of excise increases. Secondly, a 50% reduction in electricity grid charges for all consumers. Thirdly, even a 100% reduction in the gas network fee, i.e. full compensation of the gas network fee. Fourthly, the targeted measure is precisely to help people. You say it's bureaucratic and complicated, but unfortunately, there are a lot of different players with this electricity. Firstly, electricity producers are a private sector and the state lacks data on how much electricity they consume, whether they have fixed prices they have, whether they have a problem. Secondly, there are households that live with them. We do have a population register that says where people live, but 20% of people, in fact, are inaccurate. Nor does the population register actually tell us who makes up the household, and that is what people have to tell us themselves. We do not have a database with energy data from all consumption sites. Since 28 October, together with the local authorities, we have been trying to find this solution to make it as easy as possible to apply for support. And then the Social Insurance Board, together with the social workers of the local government, has made this STAR application, where there is already this grant calculator and where a procedural environment is actually needed to make it as easy as possible to apply for the allowance. Our desire is to help as many people as possible aimlessly, who really need this help. The more or if we sow money for all, the support, even for those who do not need it, we can do less to help those who really need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U6	Indrek Saar, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U7	Thank you for your answer. Well, yeah, if you had any ideas and you were crying and maybe you had a lack of empathy, you could at least look around. In Estonia, it has also been pointed out repeatedly that one of the Nordic neighbours, for example, Norway, has made a scheme that is very simple: a person does not have a long-term accumulation of debt and does not spend 10% of the total amount on bureaucracy. It is not demeaning in the same way as the method you have collated with the Centre Party. Have you calculated whether you have debated with each other in government or at ministerial level why we cannot do the same Norwegian measure? You are saying that we should not help those who are the richest, because it is about sowing money from an airplane, but right now you are spending 10% of the money that is meant for the measure with which you provide people with compensation, simply on bureaucracy. We'd better be helping people who may not need it directly for that 10%. I don't understand why you're ignoring this offer. And your statement, which I heard in your interview at the beginning of the year, that you see, we do twice as much as Norway, we spend twice as much in proportion to our gross domestic product. It says all the more, listen, the government, if you spend twice as much taxpayers' money and the result is hack, then you have not done your job properly. Why aren't you willing to learn from where the Nordics show us the way to go? Not to mention that the Norwegians will compensate seven euros per kilowatt-hour, which is about the price we had by the end of the year but Estonia will start to compensate 12 euros per kilowatt-hour, as if the people of Estonia were twice as wealthy as the people of Norway. And let's not forget that energy bills have almost quadrupled. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U8	Thank you. You say that it is dignified to apply for subsidies. All child benefits and all the benefits granted by local authorities, all those applying for them, are not distributed without a request. We have online environments where there is no need to stand in line, and these opportunities have been created. Secondly, the Norwegian solution. Yes, we have looked into Norway's solution. Firstly, Norway only talks about electricity bills, we compensate for the increase in district heating, gas and electricity bills. Norway will compensate 50% of our price increase of 80%. In this sense, too, in Norway, you still have to express your will, at least when I read about this Norwegian support in the ERR. How can you say that this result is not working or that this developed solution is not working if it has only actually begun to accept these applications? We still have to make sure that these measures work. If there really is a situation where there are more of these people, there are obstacles to which they are colliding and people do not get help, those people who need help, we will certainly look at these support measures. We have been talking about the whole heating or heavy winter period, when we want to help people, and we want to help retroactively, just as this measure has been developed. So I'd still give it a chance. Local authorities behave very differently. I would particularly like to mention Tartu, who has actually started receiving these grant applications and people's feedback has been positive. The press has the impression that this is a very complicated process, but in fact it is not. People get their applications in 15 minutes. At the same time, Tallinn is one that has not even started receiving grants or receiving applications yet. To this end, I also call on Tallinn to act quickly so that people can quickly get help and confidence in the future. I very much agree with you when you say that there is a great deal of anxiety about the future and variables in society, and we are really trying to mitigate this anxiety by providing people with help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U9	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U10	Good manager! Prime Minister! This is not only about this moment, but I have actually realised that the American mountains are waiting for us for the next ten years. But the specific question is this: have you discussed and when do you plan to extend the reserve capacity of the 1000 megawatts when Martin Helme was his minister? I think it's 23 now. Is that even the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U11	Thank you. You are probably thinking about the owner's expectation that Eesti Energia will keep 1000 megawatts running. I've been asking why there are prices... For example, one of the reasons why the price was very high in December was that Eesti Energia did not meet the owner's expectations and was not in the work of 1000 megawatts, which the owner has expected from Eesti Energia. Since 3 December, this owner's expectations have not been met. I have asked both the Minister responsible for energy, Taavi Asa, and the Minister for Finance, what we are doing with this, that the expectations of the owner have not actually been met, and what we should do to ensure that the owner's expectations are met in the future and that these conditions are met, so that we certainly have these 1000 megawatts of power. We have this debate on Thursday, and I look forward to answers to this question so that we do not have this situation again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U13	Let us move on to the second question posed by Helle-Moonika Helme to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas and the subject is the price of electricity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We have actually spent two days in this Riigikogu trying to get you here to talk about the government's plans, which is what you intend to do under the conditions of an energy disaster. And I will deliberately use the word 'disaster', because it reflects very well the situation that our people, our businesses, as well as the public authorities are in. For example, the electricity bill for the President's castle in December increased over and over again. That, too, is a problem. We were told by Jüri Ratas and Hanno Pevkur that you did not have time to come, that it was not until Thursday in the government that you were discussing the issue of high electricity prices, the issues related to it. And it was also made clear to us by the board of Riigikogu, by the representatives of the coalition, that the supreme form of parliamentary democracy is the same Question Time where we are now, where the Prime Minister has promised to reveal himself over a long time and where, as representatives of the people, we will receive these exhaustive answers to the concerns of our constituents. A few days ago, you said you had no answers. You do not know what to do, how the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia should get their hyperbig bills paid off. Do you have anything concrete to say to the public today? Have you planned any real measures in the government, making any deals, or reaching any kind of agreement in addition to the beggar bag you've put on the people? Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U15	Thank you. I always come here before the Riigikogu and I really understand that you miss me very much. Today we have a great opportunity to spend two hours here together and discuss these issues. And the Question Time really is. Now the question of what we've done. Already on 28 October, we have taken this targeted measure. We decided already on 28 October to compensate everyone 50% of the electricity grid fee in order to alleviate this shock. What we have done in December and, after the Riigikogu had already gone on holiday, it was good that you were back on the job, we have taken this targeted measure, extended it to people with median income. So I'm going to repeat again what we've done. Firstly, a 50% reduction in the electricity grid fee for all consumers. Secondly, a 100% reduction in the gas network charge for all consumers. Thirdly, the abolition of excise increases in electricity and other energy carriers that you have legalised. And fourthly, the targeted measure for families with median income, which should help me to cope with 380000 households, 800000 people with their electricity prices. I'm absolutely not gonna make it. Indeed, it is very, very difficult for people, and that is why we are trying to give people confidence that we can help them. But it is clear that electricity to the end is not free, which means that quite all bills in the country simply cannot compensate. It will take EUR 240 million to help people with these measures, so that people can be helped to cope with their high electricity and heating prices. Just as a comparison, 110 million is needed to finance higher education and there are still problems. Your husband also asks about the security crisis, which is worse than ever, and we must also provide additional resources to ensure that Estonia is adequately protected. We're still in the middle of a health crisis. We actually have a huge need for money. But by saying all this, we have taken steps to help people, and we want to continue to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U16	Helle-Moonika Helme, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U17	Yeah, thanks! Thank you for your answers. But I'm still just going to mark that opinion: everything you've talked about is basically just picking up money first, then, well, let's say, on the basis of some sort of application. This may actually be helpful, but it is terribly slow and bureaucratic, and in reality it is already visible that it is not working. But we have a state company, Eesti Energia, which is active in the production of electricity, so we actually have the fixed price to offer to people and entrepreneurs. In the current situation, we are simply buying electricity from speculators on the stock market. Despite the fact that we ourselves are able to produce and produce relatively cheap energy, Eesti Energia sells electricity at a price that does not really reflect any logic. The government says it's a market economy, it's not really, it's just a state predatory economy. It will kill our entire economy, not to mention the despair of ordinary people, families and homeowners, the serious and justified fear of the future. Cosmetics is not helping here; timing is not helping; social assistance is not really helping; it is adding bureaucracy and stress to all parties involved. The Estonian Conservative People's Party, however, issued a draft decision yesterday, where we proposed to the government that very effective measures be taken to bring energy prices down immediately. And these are the ones that really work. In other words, immediately leave the speculative and predatory power exchange and leave the CO2 quota trading system. What do you say to the people of Estonia? Does the government intend to discuss these effective proposals, or do you intend to reject them? How do you plan to save Estonian entrepreneurs, people and homeowners from the price level resulting from this price increase in electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U18	Thank you. First of all, I want to correct the perception that the state is asking people for this money. State, the Republic of Estonia does not produce electricity. Electricity is produced by electricity producers, and indeed, in the production of electricity they produce on the market from which consumers buy it. From the second half of 2016 until 2021, this Nord Pool Stock Exchange has brought 40% cheaper electricity prices to Estonian people and entrepreneurs than, for example, in Central Europe. There was no way to hear that the so-called child should be expelled with washing water, that there was a mistake on this stock market. What's important? It's that the state doesn't pick people. In fact, if we look at taxes in comparison with other countries, we have a much lower share of electricity prices than our neighbours. For example, according to Eurostat, the share of Estonian taxes was 1.5 times lower in electricity prices than in Norway, about twice as much as in Sweden and about 1.6 times lower than in Finland. So actually, the state doesn't chorus. Again, I want to emphasise that the country is trying to help people cope with the shocks that are happening all over the world, also in China, even outside the European Union today. Energy prices are on their way up. The energy crisis is everywhere. And it is unexpected, it is not the Republic of Estonia, it is not the Government of the Republic of Estonia. This has not been based on any of the decisions made by the Estonian state or the Estonian government. We are trying to help people cope with these prices. And, of course, in the long term, we need to look at how we can get more production capacity on the market, precisely in order to bring this price down. Yes, these decisions have been very long-standing, unfortunately, even in previous governments, there have been no decisions to have more production capacities on the market, but we must now make these decisions in order to actually solve this problem in the years to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U19	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You didn't answer the question. The question was whether the government was prepared to discuss, consider, adopt, reject the proposals in the draft that we tabled yesterday. What is the government's position? We are interested in this because, although the draft is in Parliament's proceedings and Parliament makes its decisions, we are still interested in what is the government's view of it. That's one. Secondly, you are not quite correct when you say that Estonia does not produce electricity or that the government does not produce it, the state does not produce it. Estonia produces it. Eesti Energia is a state company. Eesti Energia produces electricity. Estonia will be able to supply electricity to Estonia if it is not inhibited by any greening and other obstacles that are purely ideal. The fastest route now is a rapid increase in the production of independent electricity, and these opportunities also exist in Estonia. So, in that sense, let's talk about what we're gonna do in the future and we're gonna have to do something. Of course we do! All the time, we have to do it for the future. But even now it is possible and not only possible, but also necessary to take urgent steps, so I will remind you of a proverb: as long as the fat one gets thin, the skinny one is already dead. There are probably very, very many people in Estonia who will spend their savings in January to pay their electricity bill. I can't tell you the number, of course, but there's probably a lot of them. And these cosmetic changes here, with certain tax reductions, will probably not save them from paying very large electricity bills in February-March. But besides that, there's still roomies. There are also other accounts. We know that food prices have already increased. We are in the slipstream of a certain price increase and, in this situation, the government has a duty to take urgent action. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The question is: are you ready to look at the draft proposals we tabled yesterday and take a stand?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U21	Thank you. Of course, all good, rapidly feasible and sustainable ideas are welcome. Of course, we are ready to discuss them and find solutions. I still want to fix a few more things. In fact, if we had already done the greening that you are so critical of in the past, we would have more renewable energy capacities, which are known to bring cheaper electricity, because the input costs are lower. So I wouldn't criticize it. I say again, once again I stress that the state of Estonia, you are very demagogically linking these things together, that Eesti Energia really produces electricity, but the state of Estonia does not produce electricity. And if we take Estonia as a country, we are now a net importer, which means that we actually have less production capacities than we need at all times, and that is why we have to deal with the fact that we have more of these production capacities and these capacities are sustainable and affordable. Prices. You say there's a lot of these people. Yeah, I'm afraid there's a lot of people. But if I look at the contracts of Eesti Energia purely, the contracts of Eesti Energia are, first, two thirds of the fixed-price contracts, and now I'm talking about domestic consumers. Nearly 60% of home customers, their bill is less than EUR 50. And even 75% of the bills are less than EUR 100 per month. I am not saying, it depends on people's incomes, this EUR 100 is also very high for certain families, and I am not reducing it in any way. But what I want to say is that these huge bills, at least according to the Eesti Energia comparison table, do not represent such a large proportion of all these bills that people are now going to become quite insolvent, without reducing this problem in any way. The press looks like these multi-thousands bills are a common phenomenon, but when you look at these numbers, he's not really in the big picture. 237000 households or consumption points receive an invoice of less than EUR 50.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U23	Let us move on to the third question put by Mr Seeder to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U24	Thank you. My question still concerns the energy crisis. I am convinced that the government is not fully aware of the seriousness and depth of the current situation. After all, the problem is not just the problems of people living on the border, but ordinary families have also been in trouble today, who have managed to cope with themselves so far: homeowners, homeowners, middle class, also businesses, especially small businesses, non-profit organisations. This is a problem throughout society today and due to a false diagnosis, wrong solutions have been sought and found. You, too, before the Riigikogu today, will answer that you have tried to seek a theoretically ideal need-based approach to support, but a bureaucratic and unfair and very inefficient system of subsidies has fallen out. And I have also studied, and I have not found any other country where an analogous support system would have been implemented in Europe, not in Finland, not in Norway, not in Lithuania, not in other countries. There are considerably simpler solutions, these are then imposed price caps with a certain amount of consumption or, for example, it is also possible to find solutions through producers or through sellers where there is no need to deal with thousands and thousands of end-users, all of whom have to run around local authorities with statements and documents, while local authorities deal with the situation differently, and when you look at the website, give different explanations and, of course, apply different times for receiving and paying out applications. Such a serious threat is certainly not a solution to the acute situation, nor is it sustainable in the long term. Is the government prepared to think about alternative solutions, which have also been offered by opposition parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U25	As I said, we are prepared to discuss sustainable, good, easy-to-work short-term solutions in any case. However, the proposals that are now coming from the opposition are very much populist and unfeasible. We have had disputes with other drafts in this very Chamber about the fact that the state is collecting too much data. We do not have a single superdata base where we have the energy consumption of people with whom we live, household accounts and incomes. We don't have a database like that. I think that if we started creating a database like this, there would be, on the contrary, a huge confrontation, why the country wants to put it all in one place. I admit that there are difficulties, and indeed, in cooperation with local authorities, we are also trying to find simpler solutions. Some local authorities work very hard, highlighting these bottlenecks in how things can be handled better. Another local authority is dragging its feet, and it is as if it wants to show that these things are not going to work. I mean, these simple solutions simply do not exist for complex problems. Once again, I stress that we want to help more people who are in greater distress aimlessly, and by this targeted measure we will compensate 80% of the rise in the price of electricity, heating and gas for those families with 380,000 households or families, and nearly 800,000 people. Such a measure, if you look at it, in other countries only electricity is made separately, but we also have heating, we also have gas. And now the price caps. This option exists, this option of price caps is the conclusion of fixed-price contracts. For example, in Finland, there are only 10% of stock exchange contracts, while we have 45% of these stock exchange contracts. And why? This is because from 2016 until 2021, thanks to these stock exchange prices, people have received 40% cheaper electricity from stock exchange contracts than, for example, in Central Europe. And that's the reason. So once again, if you have very good, simple, quickly feasible solutions, of course we are ready to discuss them. I hope it's our common interest to help people, not to escalate this frustration in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U26	Thank you. It seems to me that we continue to understand the situation and the solutions to the situation differently. You yourself admitted that there is not enough data, but you still want to implement such an ideal, needs-based and bureaucratic support system that cannot be implemented in practice, I assure you, successfully. Simpler solutions, which are not populist, have been proposed by us. The Fatherland Party has proposed different options and we are also open to alternative government initiatives, which unfortunately do not exist so far. We have offered a reform of the electricity market, the possibility of buying off-the-counter electricity, that does not mean leaving the stock exchange, do not start talking about it now, which is very sensible and which is being implemented in many European countries today, or the temporary reduction of VAT, which can be done quickly and completely without red tape and so on. There are quite a few of these possibilities if the government can agree. But I have a question: are you ready to comment on your partner, the final proposals of the Centre Party. I also immediately admit that this is not a proper behaviour and is extremely strange when the Centre Party comes up with its initiatives so that this information does not exist in the office, you have not been informed, the coalition partner reads it from the newspaper or sees it on television. This is a completely abnormal situation. You yourself have commented that you feel as if you are alone responsible for what is happening in the coalition, I mean the Reform Party. And here's my question: How's the government's health? Do we now have two governments, the Central Party government with our proposals and the Reform Party government with our proposals, or do we have one government with only the Reform Party, because you feel alone, or do we have no government at all, and there is a government crisis with two different political parties, and a government that can agree on how to move Estonia forward, at present there is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U27	Thank you. After all, we have been able to agree quickly on four measures. Firstly, we have canceled the excise increases that the previous government has enacted. We did so quickly, before the adoption of the state budget. Secondly, we quickly decided to lower the network charges for electricity by 50% for all electricity consumers, again to help all people. Thirdly, we decided to reimburse 100% of the gas grid fee in order to mitigate the gas price shock. And fourthly, we have agreed to take a targeted measure: to compensate people earning median wages for 80% of the increase in electricity, district heating and gas prices. These are very clear agreements that we have actually achieved quickly. Yes, in society at the beginning of January, very many people were shocked when they received an electric bill. This is very well reflected in the press, where these bills have been discussed and people's resentment has been reflected. As I said, the energy crisis is everywhere in the world, also in China and other countries of the European Union, for example. In Britain, just as prices have risen to high levels. This is not something that the Estonian state or the Estonian government has caused. We are trying to cope with these consequences precisely to help people. And I do not agree with you that the government does not understand the gravity of this situation. On the contrary, we understand very well that the very difficult situation is, and that is why we have been able to agree on these measures, which I have read out, relatively quickly. But just as here in the Riigikogu, also by you, by all parties, there has been a race to offer such populist, quick solutions, so probably by all parties who are now going to meet the elections next year. As I said, we are prepared to discuss sustainable quick solutions, but there is always an alternative cost at every cost. If we add 169 million to this, I would remind you that 240 million we have already put on these support measures, if we put an additional 169 million on one thing for three months, then there is nothing else we can do for this money: to increase funding for higher education, to help cope with the health crisis or to deal with the security risks or challenges that we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U28	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Thanks for the answers, but we did not get an answer to the acute questions about the health of the government and whether we have one government, several governments, whether there are two governments in the government, one being the Central Party government, the other being the Reform Party government. To them, I understand you didn't answer very uncomfortable questions. I will briefly touch on this system of grant-sharing as well. As far as we understand by now, no support will be paid to people with some other real estate. For example, you live in an apartment in Tallinn, but you have a farmhouse or a cottage inherited from your parents. You don't pay people who have a certain amount in a bank account, 2,000 or what's in it, more than 2,000. You don't pay people who have left the second pension and got their money. Please pay your electricity bills out of the second pension money, you don't need any more! So we have realized that there is a rather structured system here that actually puts a lot of people in difficulties in a situation where they have to liquidate something and it actually makes them significantly poorer. That is such a comment on my part. If you have any other data, please disprove, calm the public, I don't mind. But my question concerns this. We also proposed, in our draft, at least temporarily, until the situation is resolved, a certain fixed ceiling for the price of electricity, even in spring relief prices. Is the government willing to consider it and establish such a ceiling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U30	As much as you are concerned about the health of the government, thank you for asking, we can manage and try to meet these challenges. As the head of the Social Democratic Party said, this is indeed an exceptionally difficult time to bear the responsibility of the government at that time. This is much harder than criticising everything in the opposition. But to your other questions. If a person has more than one house, we are trying to help people cope with these costs and we are still talking about households who live at one address. A person cannot live in one place at a time. It's just that I think that if a person already has several houses, it may not be someone who needs that kind of support to the end. The other half of the question: fixed ceiling. The fixed ceiling is currently what electricity producers are offering. It's fixed-price contracts for a certain period, and that's what's cutting off that tip. If you're afraid of this extremely high price, make a fixed price contract, and you know what you're gonna pay for electricity. In my opinion, it is not right, if, on the one hand, we have a stock exchange price, and again, as I say, from 2016 until 2021, these people have paid 40% of the cheaper electricity price than on average in Europe, then we are, as if, on its lower side, the benefits that will be passed on to all these consumers, but the peaks will be cut off. In this case, there will be a situation where everyone will take a stock market contract because you will not be risked on the other side. All you've got is the benefits you're gonna get. And once again, I say fixed-price contracts are already offered by power generators. Once again, when we go to pay for everything, every time we do something with that money, we do nothing else with that money. So help people cope with this shock. But you can't pay everything to the end, electricity is like any other commodity you pay for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U31	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U32	Let's move on to question four. Helmen Kütt asks Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of the elderly. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'd like to hope and think that all the municipalities are doing their best. At least in my home town, Viljandi, applications were also physically accepted last week. And when you said that some municipalities were dragging their feet, maybe there should be more specific than there are problems, you should also mention them specifically. But social workers really work on the edge of their powers. And to be honest, in today's debate, there is absolutely no limit and not to mention that we are in a situation where there is a very rapidly spreading strain of the virus. And those who come to formalize are usually people of high age who cannot handle themselves or who do not have the possibility or lack the skills of using a computer. And there are quite a few questions that are likely to be answered over the phone. This morning, I just got in touch with the local social workers and specifically those who accept these applications. And as Helir-Valdor Seeder, a good co-worker, pointed out, very differently, local governments approach this subject. Some of them really require statements from ATMs about the last few months. The others don't insist, they don't ask in Viljandi City. But there are already a number of people who offer so-called help, or cheaters, who go to an old person and say, "Give me your ID card with the PIN code and we'll go check it out so you don't have to go by yourself." I certainly advised you to go to the police and inform them of this. But in fact, the situation is also difficult for people who work there every day. As an elderly person in today's paper said, it is so complicated because there is probably hope that some will not come. I really think that some people will not come, will suffer it, will give up, even though they would be entitled to this support. You also pointed out that systems are complex. Have you considered these risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U34	Thank you. Firstly, I also want to say that most local authorities, I believe, are doing very well and social workers are doing an excellent job to help people, especially in smaller municipalities, where all people are known. Those who have not yet started accepting applications are the city of Tallinn, which is only planning to do so on 17 January. I do not know for what reason, but the Minister of Public Administration will probably also communicate with them so that these things can move faster in Tallinn. Now, I very much agree with you that it is as if we have completely overlooked the fact that at the same time we are experiencing a health crisis and that the micron strain is spreading faster than ever before. And indeed, this, in turn, poses a threat to the elderly. Here I want to say that it's more secure with three, you should also do these efficiency doses, get vaccinated, because it prevents more serious illness. And if it is possible to really help these elderly people by other means that they can answer their questions by telephone and submit an application, then you can do so from a distance, even if you do not have the Internet. These solutions must certainly be considered. I know that the Minister of Public Administration has been in constant contact with local authorities since October, how to make this system as simple as possible. The S.T.R.R.R. environment has been designed to deal with and calculate the grant more easily and to help these local authorities as well. If there are bottlenecks, we are very open to solving these bottlenecks quickly. What am I saying? When this need arose in October, the development of this IT solution was also carried out very quickly, and there are certainly errors in it and the development of this whole solution, because this need arose quickly. But I'm asking for understanding. The other way around, I know that all people, as you said, are working on the edge to help people and help local authorities, so that they can help people. I would also like to say that when you say that there really are people who want to earn from the elderly here, it is incredible cynicism, or even vileness, when such things are done. I hope that when such things come out, such people will be held accountable.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U35	Helmen Hunter, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U36	Thank you very much. I will continue here with my second question, which partly relates to the first one, but at least he is on the subject of coping with the elderly. You said that already on 28 October, negotiations were started with local authorities. Then the Riigikogu also had a budget procedure. The Social Affairs Committee was approached by Andres Ergma, the leader of the Alliance of Pensioners, who put forward several proposals, including one, and now from this Chamber too, proposals for the basic part of the pension to have risen from 1 January 2022. We now know that both the base part will rise from 1 January 2023 and the income tax exemption from the average pension. On 1 and 1 April, as the pensions always rise, must be factored or indexed. Knowing this situation with the electricity surge and everyone, did the government really not consider raising the base as early as 1 January? This EUR 20 would have helped people, too, and perhaps some have not had to take this route. You also pointed out that not all data overlaps. However, we pay the data in the register, one is the register of residents, the other is through the Social Insurance Board, which is indicative of the amount of the pension, but at the same time we pay the allowance. And you have also pointed out that the allowance for a pensioner living alone next year, or this year, will rise to EUR 200, will not be received until 1 October, or rather when the pension is received. That's what the data match for. Couldn't the pensioners living alone at least have been able to take this electric compensation into account automatically? It's possible to get electricity bills through electricity dealers, at least they shouldn't have come back then... How is it that there is enough data for one support, but for another support...? Or at least some people, we know that it is many tens of thousands, whether 60000 or 80000 receive support from a pensioner living alone. So at least we can work this out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U37	Thank you. Firstly, the budget went out of the government in September when the nature of this problem or the extent of this problem was not so clear. But really, the result of the indexation is that the pension will rise by 6.8% next year and the pensioner's allowance will increase by as much as 73.9%, or EUR 200. Now, coming to this electricity subsidy, as I said earlier, there are quite a few elements here. Not all pensioners are in need. My parents are retired, they're not in need. Giving them this support would actually mean that someone else would receive this support less than automatically. Now, there are several elements of the electricity subsidy. One is, as I said, the households that live with and their incomes. Secondly, it is about electricity consumption. Not all electricity consumers have a problem, as I said, with 237000 households or electricity consumption points, with figures of less than EUR 50. In this respect, once again, to help more people, there are many of these elements. All the knowledge that the country has has already been taken into account, or has been sought at least to take into account in advance when applying for this support, so that people do not have to make this effort. And as you said very well yourself, local authorities behave differently, and in general they are still trying to help people and not to insult them if there is no need to do so. So once again, if it's possible to make it better, we'll try to do it. The more we help everyone, the less we can help those who really need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U38	And the matter registered on the spot comes from Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U39	Thank you. This question, raised by my colleague, Mr Kütt, is that older people are not simply able to chew through this bureaucracy, and this journey of Golgota is simply not being undertaken and are not being pursued, I think this circle is wider, not just older people, but also many other people. I will just remind you briefly of the conditions of the same city of Tartu that they have put on the website, which people must prove on the income side alone: wage income, including income from abroad, business income, benefits from the transfer of property, rental income and royalties, interest and dividends, pensions, scholarships, grants, bonuses, gambling winnings, insurance benefits and payments from pension funds, income from a legal person in the low-tax territory, and so on. In addition, evidence that this is the actual place of residence of the applicant and his or her family, whether it is a rental agreement, a statement from the owner or something like that and so on and so forth. Plus the cost side comes up and a whole bunch of other documents. And only a few can be obtained from the registers through the tax administration, most must be collected by a person as a collection and delivered to the local government. It is extremely bureaucratic, and when a person reads and looks through this guide on the websites of different municipalities, he simply opts out of this application. But who cares and who is smart, of course it will also be for two houses, which is why the same conditions in the city of Tartu include, for example, that one family member must be registered in the city of Tartu, one family member, so that if the other one is now registering in his summer house or in another house, he can apply for a place of residence from there. So whoever's capable and clever, whether he has a need, it's imperative he gets it, and the real need for help is off. Are you still of the opinion that this system is good, that it does not need a change and that everything is fine, as you continue to convince here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U40	Thank you. I don't know why you're so arrogant about older people as if they can't handle it. In fact, there are very good people in Estonia, and people in general are very keen. This list that you produce out, yes, by listing it like that, it seems awful that you should answer all these questions, but actually, as far as I know, it's more or less the same list that you ask for when you declare taxes. If you're a pensioner, you know your only income is a pension, and you're gonna submit that pension. Nobody thinks I have foreign income, if I don't have that foreign income, I don't have that knowledge, or I don't have that information, and that's not what I'm gonna do. It's just that you can read the list here, like, to scare me. If you say that people register in different houses and still receive support, then the allowance is for a household living together. Yeah, if he lives in one place, he can't live in another place. If households split themselves, or if it is true that one lives in one household and the other, they are considered to be two different households. But in that case, you must also meet the conditions, which means that your income should correspond to this median requirement and if you have children, where they are counted. And that people, you make a complaint that people have to prove that they live in that location, but for that, unfortunately, we have, as I said, 20% of the data in the population register does not actually correspond to the people's actual places of residence and there is no evidence that you are behind this electric bill that needs to be provided. It is not, in itself, very complicated. If you have a rental agreement, you can submit it if you are the owner, you can present it and show me that I live there. I, like, somehow, I understand, on the one hand, if we have these obstacles, then all these obstacles will also be announced by the social workers of local governments who are dealing with it, which are things that can be done better. And, of course, local authorities also need to share the best practices, so to speak, in order to make things smoother. Again, I bring out this city of Tartu, where the first application days have gone well and people say that the pursuit will go quickly rather than they, or faster than they thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U42	The fifth question is for the Minister for Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, which is presented by Kalle Grünthal, and the subject is vaccination. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Tanel Kiik, more than a year ago, you stood before the Riigikogu and announced that Estonia would introduce experimental vaccines for combating COVID, which had been granted temporary authorisation. So these vaccines haven't gone through the usual practice to be used. In order to carry out COVID vaccination, a huge propaganda machine was launched under your leadership, which was very effective. Because we still remember clearly how people stood waiting for the injection at the vaccination stations that worked on the conveyor principle: pimpy, and next. At the same time, of course, this process continued through family doctors who attracted and invited people to vaccinate. People believed in your campaign and the necessity of this process. Unfortunately, your campaign and its methodology have led to serious health damage for thousands of people. In addition, 33 fatal notifications have been sent to the Agency from 27 December 2020 to 12 December 2021 on the basis of official data. This tough statistics clearly tell us that you have failed completely as the head of your vaccination campaign. These 33 deaths are not statistics, but unlived lives and grief in the family. I have been communicating people's messages and questions through Question Time before, and I am doing so now. A woman whose father died about 10 minutes after the injection called you a murderer. My question: what do you have to say in your defence? Thank you, Mr Tanel Kiik, President of the sitting. More than a year ago, you stood before the Riigikogu and announced that Estonia would adopt it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U44	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Let's start by clarifying the facts. Indeed, in Estonia, vaccination against coronavirus has lasted more than a year. In the course of this, over 800,000 people have received an injection of protection, and over 300,000 have also received an effectiveness dose. According to conservative estimates, hundreds of lives have been saved, thousands of lives realisticly estimated. This includes tens of thousands of people getting more access to medical services for all kinds of other health concerns where they would otherwise not have fit physically, as hospitals would have been filled with COVID-19 patients. We can compare these numbers very easily. If we look at the proportion of persons who are not currently vaccinated in hospital care, the risk difference, as calculated by Professor Fischer, is 25-fold if we compare the efficacy dose to those who are vaccinated, and is about seven-fold compared to what is known as a normal course. So when we talk and you asked about the deaths here, you called me a very resounding killer, then in Estonia, 1963 people have died because of the COVID-19, nearly 2000. And if I had acted on the model you wanted, or if it was the leader of your party who wanted to start selling all the vaccines to people, I don't know which model you're supporting right now, it'd be significantly bigger today, and I think there would really be reason to ask what the Minister of Health has been doing for those years. So, basically, I reject 100% of your criticism. You are currently producing the action that has saved human lives, vaccination as such, and accusing it of causing health damage in a situation where both Estonian and international statistics show that this effect has been the opposite, not only against COVID-19, but also against other vaccinations. The rhetoric that you are pursuing here at the moment is literally a threat to public health is a direct expression of distrust for science, health, health professionals around the world and, in my opinion, inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U45	Please, Kalle Grünthal, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Tanel swing, I'll be more specific about my question. Do you think that these will remain the damage to health caused by vaccines and those deaths that are in official statistics and those that are not in official statistics, but are still known by close relatives that they are related to vaccines, do you think that you do not have the slightest blame for these people's deaths and damage to their health?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U47	Thank you. There have been over 14,000 people in the hospital because of COVID-19. Over 14,000 who have suffered health damage, all of whom have some sort of aftereffects. As I indicated, nearly 2,000 of them are dead. In addition, the total number of people actually infected has been over 200,000. In these cases, too, there are undoubtedly so far certain consequences, health damage, which could occur and, in turn, harm health in the coming years and decades. So your comparison at the moment to bring the vaccine as a health-harming and non-vaccination support is complete nonsense. This is, as I said before, a public health hostile position. So I am proud that the vaccines against the COVID-19 arrived in Estonia, that in the previous government, despite the opposition of your party, we decided to make the vaccination available free of charge to the Estonian people, not to demand money for it, as your party chairman recently declared that he really insisted in the government, and that we saved, as I said, hundreds or thousands of lives and tens of thousands of people, we provided access to the necessary health services that they would not otherwise have easily received. There are these cancer patients, there are these cardiovascular diseases, there are these traumas, there are these different surgeries, scheduled treatments, consultations, any other health services. So the only thing I regret at all about vaccination is that we didn't get even faster, especially to the risk groups, but to the wider population. And I'm sure there was also you, let's just say, one of those reasons for the counterwork. Certainly not the main but inevitably its role in the fact that some of the people of Estonia are vaccine-sceptical, you are certainly proud to wear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U48	On the spot you can ask a question about Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U49	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister Kiik! I have this statistical question. Does the country have specific and verifiable data that tells us who has left people with COVID and who has gone to COVID?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U50	Thank you. Indeed, the Institute for Health Development ex post specifies all data for 2021, 100% have not been filtered, so this follow-up work will be carried out. But the fact is, if we look at the news today, you looked at how negative the natural age was in 2021. We see very clearly the impact of the COVID-19 crisis here. And inevitably, even those who have suffered from this virus and after a few months die of another chronic disease, of the underlying disease here too, in fact, the virus has had its own effect, its own proportion. So we see the death rate of the Estonian state in every number, figure. The natural age was over 5,000 negative last year, so in this light the number of COVID-19 deaths, which is in official statistics 1963, may actually be underestimated. Perhaps the actual effect of the spread of the virus, the effect of COVID on the health of the population, has been even higher, as in very many cases another disease may be the official cause of death, but COVID-19 has aggravated the course of this other disease and ended the life course of a person more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U52	The sixth question comes from Heiki Hepner to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, and this is about supporting private consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U53	Thank you very much, Vice President. Prime Minister! You have already defended this energy cost compensation measure, which goes through the municipalities, very strongly today, and I think you are trying to give the impression that this is one very successful measure, but perhaps afterwards we can look at it as one of the most failed social support measures. The President has also criticised this and pointed out such a comparison that today we are conducting a register-based population census, we consider ourselves an e-state, a digital state, but now we cannot find a solution to compensate for costs that would not burden people unreasonablely. But little, indeed, this measure also has an extraordinarily high bureaucracy cost. This is where Indrek Saar said it was 10%, but I dare say it's actually going to be 15% more. Perhaps for every six or seven euro paid out, one euro goes to red tape. We actually encourage the payment of envelope wages, because there is a reason for people to show lower incomes for employers so that they can fit into this measure. Indeed, there are a number of pensioners, teachers, young families who are working, who receive a slightly above average salary, but who have taken out loans, for example, and their revenues have been more or less well covered today, they have coped with their costs, they have been in difficulties. What do you tell them, how they should behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U54	Thank you. First of all, of course, when I listen to you, I would like to say that the income tax humps of the Ducks, or those steps of the Fatherland, are exactly what has led to people being at different stages and then, as if, being exempt from income tax. If you perform like this, I am sure you will agree that these humps should be abolished and that there could be a common tax-free minimum for everyone. When you put these steps in place, you just said no, there will be no such scheme that people will hide their incomes. Now you are using these arguments as if on the contrary, saying that people will do so if they receive this support. If they didn't start doing this when the actual victory would be much bigger if the income tax system was broken, then I don't think people are so bad that they're going to do it now. I come back to the fact that we don't have one of those super databases. We have the electricity consumption data in the hands of private operators. We have different producers with whom consumers have different contracts. And there's no such super database. We have databases that record people's known revenues, and then we have a population register where, as I have already said, 20% of the data does not correspond to the reality of who lives with whom, who makes up the household, who actually receives this support as a household. Now I'm just pointing out that we have this in relation to the median salary, but that means that if we can get support either for a person living alone or for a family whose monthly average net income per person of the family is less than EUR 1126 per month, that is to say, for each of the next 14-year-old household members, the same amount is equal to 0.5 and for children under 14-year-olds with a weight of 0.3. For example, if we have two adults, the household income limit is 1689. We have a lot of honeycomb families today, we have different options, and people live differently, so we don't have a super database that lives with. We do not have such a super-data base that we know how they consume electricity and whether they have a problem or they do not have a problem. We don't know that either. Because if the income may be different and I do not need to apply for it, then this support should not be imposed either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U55	Heiki Hepner, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U56	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! In fact, I realized from what you're saying now that this population census we're doing today is a complete mess and that you shouldn't take it seriously because you said just a moment ago that you couldn't trust that there are such big differences. Then why are we spending this money on this kind of thing? That's it. But the Minister of Public Administration has said precisely about this same measure so that people can turn to local governments. I quote: the Minister of Public Administration, Jaak Aab, recommends that all families in distress who do not receive energy benefits should contact the local government, because they still have money at the beginning of the year. That's exactly what he says. Is that the solution? But I'm going to expand, and now I'm going a little bit towards small business. We have only recently been able to read here at a family doctor's centre that has undergone renovations that correspond to the energy efficiency of category A and are in deep trouble. I have personally been approached by nursing homes who say straight out that if it continues like this, they will have to shut the doors by spring. And they're really saying where we're gonna put these people, what's gonna happen. I'm not talking about small business, self-employed. There is probably no point in talking to you about those entrepreneurs who have also been confronted with health crises, such as catering companies, small ones, difficulties. The government has left this segment completely in the rain, completely in the rain. What have you been thinking about, both on the social entrepreneurship side and simply on the small business side, of subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U57	Thank you. First of all, I have to adjust it. I said that the Parts did the steps, but I received a message that it was a member of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, who created these steps, which I think are 6,000, where people from different stages receive different then tax exemptions. First of all, I apologize to Juhan Parts. But you criticized the census as if it wasn't necessary. On the contrary, we are conducting the census now, but will it help us now? We don't, we don't have that information completely right now, and right now we do, unfortunately, we have to ask people who live with who. And these things also change in time. Families and households move together, move apart and so on. It's really that you're gonna let me know who's gonna make up the household and who's gonna go under the support. Now the other half of your question, which is really about such companies. Again, when I took out business customers from Eesti Energia, 89% of corporate customers had a December bill of less than 1000 euros. This does not mean that there are no companies or institutions that are not difficult. Indeed, with the health authorities, we also talked to the Minister for Health and Labour about discussing at the Health Insurance Fund how to help health care providers who are in trouble. The same question arises in the case of nursing homes and in order to help them cope with these costs in the same way. What's it all say? This shows that this shock has actually hit everyone unexpectedly and very hard. So there are more people in need than we know. That is why it is very important that we still target these subsidies, those funds for those who really need help, and those who do not need help simply do not receive additional money in their accounts if they do not need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U58	And a locally registered issue. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! However, I consider the point that I brought and asked whether the support of a single-living pensioner was also considered. Indeed, it would not be possible for your parents or many others whose pension is higher than EUR 669 in 2022. There's a pension ceiling, and there's a limit, and they're alone living by the register. True, if there is a married couple, pensioners, one of whom is written to another municipality or another house and the other, they will both receive it. It is possible to pay this allowance on the basis of a register there. My question concerned these two, 80,000. Maybe it would have made it easier. Since many people are looking at us, it was an important clarification to say. And another, you gave an example that the state budget had already been granted to the Riigikogu by the government. Well, I don't think the coalition party members in this hall would have had the government wanting to solve this matter or to solve it through the Riigikogu, so they wouldn't have done it, because the increase in the base part of this measure by 20 euros wouldn't have meant getting into any electronic or computer systems. It would have come without any... This is very quickly feasible. This was also answered by the Social Security Officer in the Committee, who said that it does not require the creation of a computer system, unlike, for example, the average pension exemption from income tax, which could have been done at the beginning of the year. And just because people really are watching this show, I have an example. At the same time, a letter has come where a person writes that he is thinking carefully about the subject, and after yesterday's "AKs" and "First studio," today's Delfi news, I have very many questions about whether or not coalition partners should share common positions with the public. I really don't remember this situation in the country. I am not criticising the package of measures, but I would like the rulers to share clear, common information on what I, as a citizen, should do.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U60	Yes, I very much agree with you in this regard that, especially in the crisis, it is very important that everyone speaks with one voice and does not try to pull the blanket or take the point. What is important is that people can still find out how they can help to alleviate anxiety at such a difficult time. Now, for pensioners living alone, this question is whether it will be easier. Really, the information is there, but on the other hand, the information that doesn't exist is the information on the power bill. As I said, not everyone, even pensioners living alone, may need this support, precisely because their figures may not have increased. Whether they have a fixed price or this bill has not really increased significantly. This is the place that needs to be brought together. But I will take this information with me and I will definitely talk to the Minister for Public Administration to make it easier for them. And maybe that's also the problem you're saying about the distribution of this micron strain or corona or COVID, it's also very important to actually take this into account here. So I'm gonna take it with me and we're gonna talk and see if we can make it easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U62	Let us move on to the seventh question put by Rene Kokk to Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, about the dismissal of police officers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U63	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Prime Minister! The Police and Border Guard Board is known to have completed an employment relationship with 34 unvaccinated workers last year as of 31 December. In the past, the Defence Forces have released 46 people who were known to pass through the media and refused to be vaccinated. The Head of the Rescue Board has also made it clear that unvaccinated people do not have a place in their working collective. If we look at what is happening in Estonia today, even around energy prices, or we look at the difficult situation and security situation of business-people in the world, which is anything but peaceful, then it will not be understood how the Government of our Republic will perceive what is happening around us. The government considers it right, as I understand it, that people guaranteeing internal security, their dismissal from office and the Defence Forces are justified if they do not agree to vaccinate, in a situation where we actually see that the hospital has been vaccinated today, as well as people vaccinated with an effective dose, as well as people not vaccinated in a quite uniform manner. And all of this in a situation where the state really needs these people in their former positions to be prepared to respond to our difficult situation, both economically and in terms of security. What do you say to those people who, with your support, have been exempted from the posts of those who are actually in a very difficult situation today for reasons of non-vaccination? In addition to not contributing to the state's positions, these households are in a very difficult situation today, in which they are family feeders. Do you continue to believe that the release of these people was the only right approach and that no other sensible and more empathetic solution could be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U64	Thank you. First of all, the government doesn't release anyone from the police or the Defence Forces. Each employer is obliged to carry out a risk analysis and a risk analysis in order to assess whether or not the vaccination requirement is justified by the nature of each post. The Police and Border Guard Board prepared a risk analysis which resulted in an evaluation of each post. I would also like to say that the rules that have been laid down concerning the risk analysis as a result of this risk analysis must be assessed by the employer. On the contrary, it has just been pointed out that it is imperative to assess whether the working environment and the position allow, for example, risk mitigation by other means, precisely in order to find other options and not to let these people go. For example, the use of personal protective equipment, the restructuring of work in this way, the regular testing of the worker or any other appropriate measure. It's quite possible. And the employer must consider whether it is possible for him or her to provide the employee with employment where the risk to both the employee and others is as low as possible. And if these measures are not possible and, as a result of the risk analysis, it is necessary to introduce a vaccination requirement, it must first be notified to the workers. So in any case, whether or not the vaccination requirement is justified must be assessed separately. And so, at the moment, I understand that there are also legal proceedings with employees, that the court can make an independent assessment of whether such a requirement was necessary or whether it was possible to reorganise the work in any other way. I very much agree with you that in this difficult situation, every person is necessary, every person at the expense. And I believe that neither the Commander of the Defence Forces nor the Head of the Police and Border Guard have taken any step without considering it and without taking into account what is necessary and what is not. I have not been familiar with this risk analysis literally.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U65	Rene Chef, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U66	Thank you for that answer. It could, of course, be summed up in such a way that it is foolish to find a reason to justify one or the other of your actions. But we're in a situation where there's a quote from the Titanic movie that says "people with limited opportunities." That's what people were called who didn't belong to that high class on Titanic, were living in inferior cabins. And we are now in the process of creating a group of people like "people with limited opportunities" in Estonia. And why can't we still use the same test option for the same rescuers, any other officer's police officer, to understand the children who are positive, who are not. And it works pretty well. It is very difficult for me to understand why we should not use the same solution in these other institutions. And actually, these people could contribute today to the same positions they used to work in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U67	[[There's music out there somewhere.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U68	Setos are in progress in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U69	I see. [[The music still sounds.]] I was just wondering if they were coming in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U70	Looks like they're leaving, so they won't be invited in.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U71	Well, I'll come to your question. In my opinion, this comparison with the top class and the Titanic is inappropriate in that vaccination is free for everyone in Estonia. The taxpayer pays it off, there are no differences here, and everyone actually has equal opportunities to defend themselves. Now, coming to this risk assessment, right now I realize that there's a trial going on with these people. And if, on the one hand, the head of the Police and Border Guard Board says and justifies this risk assessment that, as a result, the vaccination requirement is necessary at the workplaces and, on the other hand, these people say it is not necessary, then let the court decide. These disputes are currently under way, whether or not they are right. We have been in this crisis, a health crisis for two years. This crisis has been very dynamic, these things have changed, but as the Minister of Health and Labour said, vaccination according to analyses is actually reducing the difference between being hospitalised 25 times. So it's 25 times less likely that people who have been vaccinated, people who have been vaccinated with an effective dose, will be hospitalized than unvaccinated people. When we look at the people who die, they're mostly unvaccinated people. And when we look at the people we have in third degree ICU, these are the main unvaccinated people. The test will not protect anyone from getting this infection or from serious illness. The test gives you the knowledge that this person is not currently suffering from this disease, but, for example, if someone else is giving it to him because he is at risk of being hospitalized and seriously suffering from it. Once again, however, how the police and border guard's risk analysis justifies the need for vaccination is likely to be the subject of a dispute in court at the moment, and that is where the final truth is evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U72	Siim Pohlak, please, a matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! On the contrary, I think the image of the Titanic is great. I would extend it to the entire Estonian state today, that a large iceberg shines on the road, I will now return the story to the price of electricity, it is a really big iceberg, and like a small privileged class in the Titanic we may have a party, whether or not it is with bellow music, but in any case the rest of the people are in trouble. If the market does not work, if, figuratively speaking, there are not enough roads on the market, in our case now, we do not have enough external connections to supply electricity that are working, then this market is not actually working, not all are going to enter that market or the price offered on that market is not adequate. Why are we still participating in this electricity market in Nord Pool, which is detrimental to our people and to the competitiveness of our companies, why is the government not stopping or exiting it, why are you not doing so? Or are you or are you not imposing an upper price ceiling on the price, one that would not strangle our business and create great difficulties for our people? Prime Minister, I ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U74	Thank you. First of all, I would say that we are in the middle of three major crises, that if you compare with the icebergs, that is the energy crisis, the security crisis, which has not been mentioned at all in this Chamber today, which is more complicated than ever, and the health crisis, which has not disappeared anywhere. I do not know that anyone is having a party right now because everyone is equally concerned, and it seems to me that the government is also more concerned about security, for example, which you are not concerned about here at all. But now, coming to this issue concerning Nord Pool, again I would like to stress that from 2016, the second half of 2016, until 2021, Estonian consumers have received a 40% lower price of electricity than on average in Europe, thanks to this Nord Pool. And if I take it, you say that Nord Pool is bad, but I take data from other countries, other consumptions, then the price of electricity in Estonia has been cheaper. Even today, electricity prices are actually higher in quite a number of countries, including Latvia, Lithuania, but also in Switzerland, for example, in Great Britain, this price is higher and they are not part of Nord Pool, Latvia, Lithuania are, but Switzerland is not, for example, what your product is modeling. Perhaps in the current state of shock, it seems to me that it is also a desire to expel the child with washing water. After all, this stock exchange has brought very good prices to people, to consumers. We have perhaps been sedated by the fact that the average electricity price for 2020 has been EUR 30 per megawatt-hour and has been much, much lower than in other European countries. But I wouldn't rush to throw it out of the stock market, just now try to help us overcome these shocks, and then see what other solutions can be made so that we have more production capacity on the market so that we actually have more electricity production and supply, which in turn leads to lower prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U75	Mr. Pohlak, do you have a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U76	Yeah. Does our procedures foresee that the Prime Minister is concerned with divination or clarity, claiming that the EKRE, or personally, I am not concerned about the security situation? When you look at today's questions, the tenth question that Mart Helme asks is precisely about the security situation. So I would ask you not to make such incompetent predictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U77	Mr Pohlak, thank you for your comment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the question that we have been discussing at the moment was raised by your groupmate Rene Koka and concerned unvaccinated police officers. In the sense that we have a custom in this Chamber, that if we ask specific questions within the framework of this question, it is, if you asked on a completely different subject, that I will draw everyone's attention, not just you, but all of us who are in this Chamber and who may be behind the screens, that, in the context of one question, if you take it away from someone else, someone would have liked to ask the police officers again, and you asked on a completely different subject, please, we will stay on the subject. There have been quite a lot of other issues here today, where it would have been possible to ask about this subject as well. I will conclude on this issue. Mr. Pohlak, is there another procedure? For the record, the last one wasn't procedural either.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U78	Yeah. Now it's very clearly procedural. I refer to the fact that the Prime Minister rarely goes to Parliament, that we simply have to take every opportunity to ask about the price of electricity, because we cannot get these answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U79	Mr. Pohlak, this is not a procedural question. This is not a procedural question. Please don't expand it. And if we are now going to argue with Mr Pulpland and Mrs Kingo, we will take the opportunity to answer the next question concerning crisis management and then vaccination and so on. I very much hope that we can move forward with Question Time, that we do not raise disputes on a subject that is not these points at the moment. Mr. Woodland, what is this procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I just have a procedure. This complaint about the procedure was somewhat inappropriate, because Rene Koka's question dealt with security issues purely; there was the issue of staff or staff dismissed from the force department, so it was a security issue and this complaint was not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U81	Mr. Pulpland, here we go with you on a very, very different path. The wording of the question was the dismissal of 34 unvaccinated police officers. We can put everything under security, can't we? I really hope that in this sense we can proceed with Question Time; the Estonian people are watching it now. Okay. Mrs. Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U82	Thanks for the opportunity. And I think that's a procedural question. As far as I know, the members of the government who attend and participate in Question Time will also be referred to the order of the questions and the topics behind them. Has this order been presented today to the Prime Minister, from which he could have read that the tenth point is the security situation, or has he accidentally forgotten this order of questions and issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U83	Yes, to this procedural question, I will answer that, of course, they have been forwarded to the Prime Minister and, of course, the Prime Minister saw that the tenth question is the security situation. But I believe that the Prime Minister's experience here also indicated that we have usually come to discuss about nine questions, depending on how long the questions are and how long the answers are. So looking at the time now, when it is 1:35 p.m., we may not get to the 10th item of the agenda or the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U84	But let's keep moving fast, so we can get there. Raivo Tamm is asking Prime Minister Kaja Kallas about crisis management. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U85	Thank you! Prime Minister! People call me like a social worker and complain about their concerns. A specific case. A self-employed driver living on land, a farmer living on a farm, oven heating, electricity floor heating in a few places, the electricity bill is a few hundred euros larger than last year. The husband's had a cancer diagnosis. After November, after the operation, he won't get paid, he's out of work. It does not qualify because it takes into account its previous salary, it all comes together. People are worried, telling me why you're not doing anything in the Riigikogu. You say that our proposals, or those of the opposition or anyone, are populist. So any proposal can be labelled populist. What do you suggest we do here in the Riigikogu? People are asking us why you're not doing anything. I'm asking for your assessment. The Fatherland has proposed a reform of the electricity market in order to give people freedom of choice as a universal service to buy electricity over the counter. It's not a populist idea. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U86	Yeah, thanks! First of all, these procedural responses. As I said to Mrs Helme, I indicated that I am pleased that her husband asks about the security situation at the outset, because this is a really important issue. It's just we haven't gotten there yet. I'm very aware that Mart Helme is asking about this, but most people don't think it's that important. Now, coming to this question, yes, there are a lot of difficult stories that are very complicated, as I said. And, of course, by the government, we can or will try to make solutions that will help as many people as possible. Now, as I said earlier in response, we are ready to discuss any targeted or fast-working and sustainable solutions that can be implemented quickly so that people can actually get help. All kinds, I mean, the proposals that are, we discuss them, we see what will help. But these parts of the solutions proposed are just very sound, but they do not actually bring this relief, and rather, as I said, perhaps in the long term, on the contrary, are working in the opposite direction. What am I thinking? Why do we have little production capacity in a market that would be using renewable energy and would actually provide cheaper electricity? This is because the price of electricity has also been very cheap and these investments have not been made. And if we also fix prices at national level, which is not possible until the end, then I would remind you that in these difficult times we are net importers. If we fix the price, for example, that we do not buy electricity at a higher price, then no one will just sell it to us because the electricity is bought by others. For example, I would like to draw attention to China, where, as far as I know, limits were also set, as a result of which coal-fired power generation capacity shut itself down, because it is not possible to deliver this product at this price because the prices of inputs have become more expensive. I would also not like to see this situation, where we are actually taking it to the point that we do not actually have electricity at all, but we would still want to help people who are currently struggling and find solutions that will help them out of trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U87	Raivo Tamm, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U88	I also think that our proposal is not populist. But yesterday, the Centre Party proposed different options. I think the crowd thought there was a light at the end of the hallway. Now the Prime Minister's office has said that there will be no such thing as the Centre Party has proposed. Before, Helir-Valdor Seeder asked whether we had a government crisis or how many governments we had. You didn't answer that. Mart Helme also re-submitted it as an additional question, and you did not reply at that time either. Now, for the third time, do we have a government crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U89	Thank you again for your interest in government health, but we do not have a government crisis. We have been able to take these decisions to help people quickly and quickly, and we have this desire for cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U90	A matter registered on the spot. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U91	Thank you. Prime Minister! Indeed, the situation is complicated. I think we all understand that we are living in a crisis, we are not living in a normal situation, and that is why it is difficult for me to understand why we are using the measure we are using in the crisis. In Pärnu, Pärnu alone, the first day of the applications, a thousand applications were submitted, seven processing agents were recruited to process these applications. And I do not really understand why such a solution is necessary to manage the crisis. But I would rather talk about other consumers and consumers who create added value in society, these are entrepreneurs, often small businesses in Estonia. We read all sorts of news about how the Health Insurance Fund discusses health care prices, raising it, cannot do it, there are problems in nursing homes, small businesses that also provide food, are equally struggling with coronal conditions, often people who have not been vaccinated cannot come to eat. In addition, energy prices have given rise to such dizziness that this service can no longer be offered at this price, not to mention the spa sector. What about the business sector now? You also mentioned once that you are coming out and with a package. On what date would that happen? Will businesses be helped in this situation to help them survive, or is it really a capitalist market economy in which turd dictates the price in advance, Nord Pool dictates it? Everyone has tried to hedge their risks either through a fixed contract or by participating in a stock exchange. What is the solution for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U92	Thank you. First of all, what we have done to help businesses is to reduce the power grid service to 50%. And businesses, as they consume more electricity as a percentage, will do more. Secondly, network service, 100% compensation for gas network charges. That, too, is what we have done that should help businesses. I had business customers taken out of Eesti Energia again. And 81% of business customers are fixed-price contracts. Maybe who's fixed their price and who shouldn't have any difference. Now, this price fixing is still possible. In fact, the increase in electricity prices has been mentioned since October. As far as I know, at least a few weeks' notice can fix that price and agree. When it comes to entrepreneurs who have not done so, who currently have very big bills, when I have asked why this has not been done, it is because everyone is still waiting for these low prices to come back. Since, as I have said between 2016 and 2021, electricity consumers in Estonia have still gained a great deal from this stock exchange price, entrepreneurs have made these estimates and hope that this lower price will actually come back. And that is also the choice of entrepreneurs. At the same time, there are companies who say that I have productions, that is, I must first be sure that I have electricity, and have made long-term contracts where they say that their consumption is so much, and fixed this price then, because in the longer term the producer is also interested in having a firm buyer for the consumer and on the other hand a firm price. So there are opportunities. I do not think it is quite fair, I say again that on the one hand, this risk is being taken to get this lower price, but if it gets very high, it will be paid by the taxpayer. Again, I would like to remind you that the taxpayer's wallet is in all of our pockets, including the pockets of their teachers, saviors and policemen, and the question arises as to whether it is fair that they have to pay for it from the other side. But in saying this, I will not in any way squander the existence of this problem, these health centres, as you said, nursing homes and so on, we must find these solutions, because this shock has hit everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U93	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U94	Let us take the ninth question, which is the question of vaccination by Urmas Reitelmann, Minister of Health and Labour, for Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Unfortunately, I have to start with a reprimand. A member of the government is before the Riigikogu, not to make assessments, but to provide answers. And even if I talk to you about a member of the Riigikogu, even if you do not like the answers of a member of the Riigikogu, it is not appropriate to call them nonsense. So watch your arrogance and try to stay polite. But the vaccination. The examples you give here and the statistics reflect the previous strains of the virus. Today, the omicron has already taken over our hospitals, or we, say, our homes, Europe-wide, and it is clear to everyone that the vaccines are not helping here. Vaccinated people also get sick. The most glamorous example is the Swedish crown princess, who has received three injections and became ill for a second time in a very short time. But the course of the disease is extremely mild. Extremely gentle. It's like a mild cold, common cold. Doctors are talking, for example, the doctors in the Helsinki region of Finland say that we need to stop this hysteria, that hospital loads have not increased, and that this omicron strain is a common viral disease of the upper respiratory tract. In Estonia, it is not protection or vaccination; we call it whatever it is, it has not stopped. We even have a family doctor acting like a sociopath who says we're gonna vaccinate your children even if you don't allow it. I'm asking you if the government or the ministry has at least considered stopping vaccination for children.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U96	Thank you for your question. This is, of course, an interesting situation where EKRE calls for a more restrained use of words. But it'll go down in history. When discussing the answer to your question, Finland is, of course, a country with considerably higher vaccination coverage than Estonia. Perhaps, of course, both Finland and Denmark in the past could also afford different statements, a different approach. Alongside the coverage of higher vaccinations, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, other such Nordic countries are also some of the countries with lower mortality rates in COVID-19 in Europe, compared to those with lower coverage, especially in our region, which is almost all of the countries with higher mortality rates, which once again demonstrates this effectiveness of vaccination. As Professor Maimets has said, the omicronth strain is indeed now dominant, estimated at about 80%, but the delta has not disappeared. The 20% delta strain still means that, if, for example, there are 2,000 infected per day and 400 of them are detachable, a significant number of people will continue to reach the hospital and this level of risk, vaccinated and unvaccinated, will be very high. Perhaps in a situation where there are 240 patients in hospitals today, most of them, in the order of 180 COVID-19 due to severe illness, almost every day there are also deaths, just to say that we have had ordinary flu, it is a little early. I really hope we get there. The omicron strain seems to be a step this way. If the omicronth strain eats out the previous strains of the virus, including delta, this possibility has in any case arisen. In the vaccination of children, we have been all the time, one can say, more cautious, more moderate, more restrained than in adults, because, as the Ministry of Social Affairs has said since the beginning, by the way, the main focus group is primarily older people, other risk groups, chronic patients. On this basis, the initial vaccination plans were also made and the coverage is higher today. For example, in the case of under 12 years of age, we have not knowingly set any such objective of coverage either by the Ministry of Social Affairs or by the government, nor have there been any rules for people under 12 years of age in terms of access to activities, for example, so that under 12 years of age can participate where necessary. And in the same way, in the case of 12 to 17-year-olds, there is a significantly more lenient regime, both in school and elsewhere and in adults, precisely so as not to exclude unvaccinated young people in any way. However, vaccination of children is still necessary, especially for groups at risk. This is once again the position of the scientific council; it is also the position and practice of the world. After all, even yesterday brought us a very sad case where a seven - year - old child died from COVID-19 disease. Yeah, he may have had other, earlier health problems, but this is just one example that a certain proportion of children are at risk due to different diseases and they still need this vaccine. This is where the health care professional family doctor is best placed to provide counselling and information. After all, no child's vaccination is coercive for anyone; it is a free choice, especially for parents in the case of young children. In the case of bigger children, perhaps even their own deliberate choice and decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U97	Urmas Reitelmann, please, a clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U98	Yeah. Thank you for your answer. I would also like to make it clear that how many doses of vaccine for children have been delivered to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U99	Yeah. When we talk about the age of 12 to 17, for them, it is a common vaccine, which is also for adults, which is hundreds of thousands of doses in storage. When we talk about people under 12 years of age, we've planned Pfizer-BioNTech to be 45% of that cross group in the order of opportunity to give them vaccination. Moderna has not yet been authorised to come at any time. From this dose of vaccine to the country, I'm not gonna give you that number by heart, less than 100,000 doses have arrived in the country in any case. It should be taken into account that the two doses are per person, per child, and are three times lower than the mRNA level in adults. But, as always with other vaccines, we have always ordered them consciously with a certain margin, because the worse situation is when there is a shortage. A better situation is, if there's any left, you can sell it, donate it, do something else. We have also been in a situation where, for example, in the meantime, it was only necessary to borrow vaccines for the efficacy doses from Finland, as it could be seen that the efficiency dose interval was shortened and urgently needed a vaccine. The same logic applies to children here too. The current knowledge is that children are not the main risk group, the virus can change again, the situation can change, and then it is better for us to be able to protect children against the disease, not so that we have to start looking for this vaccine somewhere quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U100	The question registered on the spot will be asked by Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The current government has now essentially introduced a regime in which everyone is no longer entitled to even the services of public authorities. First of all, forcing and failing to respond to the vaccination, you adjusted the risk analysis so that it could fire the uncontrolled people of the vaccine. But it doesn't seem to be enough for the government. Military, police, rescue, nurses and many other people who are now or will soon become unemployed with a specific specialty are no longer allowed by the state to retrain or complete themselves through training, i.e. through the unemployment fund. The unemployment fund's website also contains current information: the training of the unemployment fund is limited to the holders of the COVID passport. And an explanatory text has been added: in training organised by the unemployment fund, including career services for groups, work club and such, the participant's infection safety must be demonstrated by the COVID-19 certificate of vaccination or penetration in accordance with the applicable requirements. My question is, is your government's course to destroy people's lives, their careers once and for all? That's the way you've been acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U102	If I may, I will clarify the previous question as well, I quickly looked at the table. The separate vaccine for children of Pfizer-BioNTech has now reached the country of Estonia by 72000, which is a vaccine for 5 to 11 years of age. Like I said, 12+ is going into the general vaccine calculation. In answer to Kert Kingo's question, Estonia has been, I think, you must also admit, an extremely liberal country when we talk about vaccination when we talk about the requirements for vaccination. We don't have any fines for unvaccinated people. We never had any very harsh, curfew and other rules for vaccinated or unvaccinated people. Nor do we have a law-level vaccination obligation in any area of life. We have not made any such decisions at government level either. So these questions about the COVID certificate, about the vaccination certificate or also about access with evidence of infirmity are primarily about entertainment, activities of interest, indeed, certain trainings. In the past, a negative test proof was also allowed; at the moment, there is a debate on what their future will be in the light of the omicron strain. What was the use of the word, somehow destroying the life of Estonia - this sentence was something similar - it's just extremely exaggerating, to say the least. On the contrary, we have been holding the people of Estonia, maintaining society, enabling access to various activities, especially the care of children. In the case of children, these exemptions have been granted to enable them to participate in education anyway, in further training, in activities of interest and so on. Indeed, in certain cases, this COVID certificate must also be provided in recreational and educational activities. Vaccination is free of charge available to all residents of Estonia, so this opportunity to protect their own health, plus access to different services is guaranteed across the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U103	Honourable Riigikogu! It's 1:57. Given that two minutes for the question and three minutes for the answer, it is clear that we will not be able to ask any more questions before 2:00. Thank you, Prime Minister, thank you, Minister of Health and Labour, thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for taking part in this Question Time. And that concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U104	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the session of the first working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U105	Dear Riigikogu! Good listeners! The involvement of the Defence Forces in the conflict in Mali is one of the most questionable military missions in Estonia's recent history. Participation in this conflict cannot in any way be assumed by Estonia as a commitment to the allies and has no connection whatsoever with Article 5 of NATO. The Negro regimes that terrorize the Malian state, which remain in power, including with the support of our soldiers, have become increasingly grotesque every year. In addition to fighting the junta on one side of the front line for the self-determination of the tyrannical and bloodthirsty peoples, the undisputed facts of the Malian regime's cooperation with the pouty Russian and notorious group of mercenaries Wagner have now become apparent. Although the problems with Mali's mission have been getting worse and linking the Estonian Defence Forces to an increasingly unnecessary burden, the Estonian governments have approved the renewal of missions every year so far. It is appropriate, however, that the cooperation of the Malian regime with Russia and Wagner should be the last step to stop us from participating. That is what Defence Minister Kalle Laane said on 22 September last year: if a cooperation agreement is made with Wagner and the Wagner private army takes action in Mali, the Estonian contingent will come out of there. The moment of truth, whether government politicians stick to their words, is now here. And as a result of all this, I'm going to report an inquiry to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U106	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U107	Good manager! Colleagues! You can guess what this question is about. The same crazy situation and possible 800000 people who will have to reach out to the municipality to ask for alms by losing their dignity. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is an inquiry to the Prime Minister. It's about... We are faced with the most competitive and one-by-one action on the processing of support in the history of independent Estonia. And I quote Siim Kallas, the founder of the Reform Party, the esteemed Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U108	Good waitress, I apologize to you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is really a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and honor those who wish to listen. I'd like to keep it down in the hall, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U109	Yeah, thanks! The bell too. But I'm talking about the basic promises of the Reform Party right now. So what did Siim Kallas write in the manifesto of the citizens' state? "I am in favour of and seek a country that does not rule over the holy and almighty Citizen [... ]. A country that does not look in the Citizen's locker, behind the locker, or climb into the bedroom [... ] [The country that doesn't go through... ] The citizen's finances do not follow his bank account. I am applying for a country that citizens have created for themselves, not a country that either tolerates or dislikes its citizens in terms of grace. " And my question, or our question from the EKRE Group, we have nine questions, is how this mammoth machine thing is going to work and what nuances might lie ahead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U110	There's no more calls. Thus, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two enquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. Checking for presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U111	78 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U112	Dear colleagues, let's move on to today's agenda. Today's agenda is next. The first item is the first reading of Bill 433. Yesterday we had such a situation that there were presentations, there was a round of questions, it was over, and now I am asking you whether the representatives of the political groups would like to open negotiations. No requests, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 January this year. This concludes the first reading of draft 433 and we have already completed the first item. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U113	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? They want me to open negotiations. Please ask Kert Kingo, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When reading the explanatory memorandum to this draft, it is clear that it does not actually fit in with the planned actions. It is not the same as the presentation of this draft at first reading. Maybe the explanation doesn't match the content of the bill. This explanatory note is a literary literary pulpit, the content of which cannot be summarised briefly. It's possible it's intentional. This is the way in which Members who will then have to make a decision on draft laws will be misled. I'm looking at this bill, and I have to say that it's just another problem with the law that this bill does. Everything's completely messed up. That is what characterizes the current government's actions, that regulations under one law are being introduced, I do not know whether, for convenience or whatever other purposes, it is under the regulation and administration of another law and it is confusing in the world of justice. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I have worked on this database, called KAIRI, whose work manuals or working arrangements are intended to limit the accessibility of this draft on a daily basis. I am well aware of the structure of this programme, the data to be entered in it and the way in which data is entered, the restrictions on access for workers, the rights to which they are subject. I can therefore say that the justification and necessity of this draft is more than questionable, particularly through the Police and Border Guard Act. The alleged purpose of this law is to introduce amendments aimed at imposing longer restrictions, in particular with regard to the database of KAIRI officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U115	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Good fellows! We can't continue the trial. There's a noise in the hall. I'm asking for silence in the hall! I ask that we respect the waitress, I ask that we respect those who wish to listen to the report. And that noise comes from a lot of lines. Good waitress, we still can't go on, we still have buzzing in the hall. I'll give you a signal as soon as you and I end this buzz, and then we can continue. Mine, most of all. Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U116	In other words, change the deadline for the classification of these employees' rules of procedure, i.e. the code of conduct. It is certainly not correct to do this within the framework of the Police and Border Guard Act. Work manuals are other laws regulating human resources documents and their limitations and access, such as the Personal Data Protection Act and the Public Information Act, which give rise to such regulations. The Police and Border Guard Act regulates the duties of the police, their rights, the organisation of work and the legal bases of the police service. The objective set out in the explanatory memorandum of the draft act to make it more difficult for persons who could use the information for criminal purposes to access the information is quite absurd. Let me be clear, this refers to information, which is the procedure for entering data into the database, i.e. a standard working guide. What is even more absurd is the explanation that making such information public could hurt the effective functioning and exchange of information between law enforcement authorities. Believe me, there is nothing to be done with such information by malicious people; it does not provide any valuable information that can be used in their own interests. Getting the manual doesn't give you the chance to access the database and access the data there. Even the information that this or this police officer has access to category A, B or C, that this police officer, for example, can enter only certain data with Category B access, or that an C official is only entitled to view the data and that an A official can view the data as well as enter the data for each category, gives no one anything valuable, it is not possible to use it in any way for his benefit. It is completely incomprehensible how one work manual or procedure for entering data that does not give access to the database can be affected by effective action and exchange of information between law enforcement authorities. This reasoning alone calls into question the credibility of the entire draft. This is a very bad bill, and such laws should never reach the Riigikogu at all. Our aim should be to deal with correct legislation and comply with the principles of lawmaking so that lawyers, lawyers and judges can easily find all the necessary legal provisions that are necessary for the resolution of a dispute. The Estonian Conservative People's Party does not see an opportunity to support this draft and calls on other parties to be reasonable and not to support such a breach of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U117	Thank you. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Isamaa Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U118	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! Indeed, the Isamaa Group this year, in the case of the earlier draft, the package tabled amendments against the disease of public government recognition for official use, the public interest protection package, but unfortunately it did not find Parliament's support, but rather the protective wall of the bureaucratic mechanism, in the form of representatives of the people who are members of the government's federation today, ran over it as a road roll. Therefore, this legislative novel, which has been put into Parliament's proceedings, which actually concerns the extension of the scope of the procedure recognised for official use, without going into such nuanced explanations as it was referred to in substance by the previous speaker in protest that our public interest protection package was rejected this year and was also rejected last year, does not consider it possible for our group to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U119	Thank you. There are no more calls, I will close the negotiations and we will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 408. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 408 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U120	With the result of 52 votes against 17, no abstentions, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law 408. That concludes the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U121	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the National Guarantee of Export Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A specific draft number 423 SE, the draft law amending the National Export Guarantee Act, was initiated by the Government of the Republic last year on 13 September. Over and above the objective of the draft, there is, in principle, a need to create opportunities to take better account of the needs of Estonian exporters in providing credit insurance services guaranteed by a state export guarantee and thereby encouraging exports. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The amendments to the National Export Guarantee Act are basically divided into two parts. Most of the changes are necessary in order to create the possibility of granting a national export guarantee under credit insurance agreements for short-term transactions which define a person who is insured other than the collateral taker, i.e. a third party, but which also amends the limit on the volume of national export guarantees in force at the same time and increases the volumes more than twice, to EUR 400 million. The first reading of the draft now took place last year on 10 November, and no amendments were tabled by the deadline of 24 November from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. The Commission discussed, the Committee on Economic Affairs then discussed the preparation of the second reading on 14 December last year. Neither did the Commission have to formulate any proposals on its own, and there were no requests. In principle, language was also carried out, linguistic and technical improvements were made, and this was forwarded by the Commission to the House. The decisions adopted in principle were then such that, for the second reading, the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 12 January, the second reading should be closed and when the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading on 19 January this year and to hold a final vote. All were consensual decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U123	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U124	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The energy crisis has hit basically when we look at our stock market price area, the Baltic countries the hardest. When we talk about export capacity and the ability of companies to export, the competitiveness of our companies in this comparison has certainly been very hard hit. The price increase has actually been the highest in the European Union, with over 12% in December last year. Consequently, when we talk about export capacity and what we should do, about the competitiveness of this wider economy, it is actually a question of solving the problem of the price crisis for energy carriers. In reality, the only relevant method for this is the reform of the electricity market. However, unfortunately, the Committee on Economic Affairs has actually been holding it for weeks, a draft decision on the reform of the electricity market. Can a good waitress tell us what the reason for the coalition's representatives to fear the reform of the electricity market is, instead of simply coming up against theatrical proposals and basically a stagnation?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U125	Thank you, good Urmas Reinsalu, for this question. Unfortunately, at this point, I only have to stay within the framework that we discussed in the framework of this particular draft. Of course, I would also like to open up further issues relating to the electricity market, the reform of the electricity market and the proposals on how to help people overcome the current shock. However, I have to admit, unfortunately, that we did not address this issue in this particular draft. And that also means that, unfortunately, I can't go into deeper substantive answers, or I'd just open Pandora's box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U126	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U127	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Sven! I will see that no amendments were made, but the text of the draft text passed between the two readings and, consequently, linguistic and technical corrections have been incorporated into the draft. And now we'll see. Amendment three: § 9 is supplemented by paragraphs 31 and 32 and 31 is such an interesting thing that the word "assigned" is placed here. Export guarantees may also be granted where the insurance contract is a insured person other than the person making the guarantee. Who's the assignor? That there's someone else who could get the insurance money?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U128	Thank you for that question. The draft, as I mentioned earlier, was one of the main, couple of fundamental arguments that were, one of which was, as I mentioned earlier, at least a double increase in volumes to 400 million, but the other is one important aspect that was not possible earlier, was that you could secure the taking of a third party's so-called guarantee. This is different, different insured person, and this is the so-called person designated in the insurance contract as the third. This gives the possibility that here really is a line drawn down in relation to the fact that technically there is a so-called spelling message. When we look at the original text that came from the government, we note that there is a 'defined' instead of 'defined'. Technically and spellfully, it is correct not to say "defined," but to say "defined." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U129	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U130	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! I would extend this area a little bit and, in this export context, ask the question of a green turn. Did the Commission also discuss how progress or withdrawal of the green turn could affect our exports and, here too, these guarantees? Because, indeed, obviously, the grassroots has a very strong impact on Estonian exports, and there have also been calls where guarantees should not be given, if they do not meet the objectives of the green turn or vice versa, this could become a certain obstacle. Was there any discussion or was it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U131	Thank you. The short answer is that it was not under discussion. That's a short answer. But I think that this issue in itself, the importance raised by you, is important and I can say that, in the light of my other drafts and other hearings, the Committee on Economic Affairs has actually addressed it and will in future also certainly and certainly address the issues relating to the green turn. Hence, on the one hand, the competitiveness of our market and business market, their additional investment needs, all in order to achieve these milestones and final targets, hence the cost of our consumers, which will eventually be paid off. The Commission has discussed various other drafts in practice on energy economic issues, energy issues, but it has not been opened separately in the context of this specific amendment of the National Export Guarantee Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U132	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U133	Good manager! Good Sven! Maybe you'll be more specific in a few words. If someone takes it, they make sure that someone else gets the insurance money, that maybe the collateral taker has one and they define another. Why is it necessary for exports, is it some sort of...inception question or what it comes from, that need?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U134	Yeah, thanks! In insurance contracts, I am certainly not specifically an expert on insurance contracts, but I understand that there are situations in insurance contracts where there may actually be different persons, one being the guarantors and may also be different from those who are ultimately the beneficiaries of insurance, eventually if there is some context in which compensation is paid. And in export transactions, it turns out, is actually, and it's come mainly from market participants, there are situations in export transactions where there is a need in insurance contracts to define the guarantor who is taking back the so-called'real' guaranteeer, but quite somebody else, somebody third, who then gets this security. I cannot give concrete examples here as to whether these examples relate to banks that take certain kinds of insurance or are linked to two different market players who are already physically active on the market, but they have actually come at the request of market participants, and this has been brought to the table at the government level agreed today and today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U135	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Now, the amendments cannot be examined, they have not been tabled. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 423 should be completed. That concludes the second reading and concludes the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U136	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic (472 SE). And I ask Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U137	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. During the work of my seven-year member of the Riigikogu, this is the most formal draft I have dealt with as a leading judge. This draft directive transposes a directive, a directive of the European Union, which harmonises the requirements for training and professional qualifications of crew members working on inland waterway vessels. And they concern such ships on navigable inland waterways... In short, Estonia is not affected by this and therefore the current regime will remain in force in Estonia, as there will be no freight transport on the Estonian navigable inland waterways. We also lack inland waterways that can carry out cross-border transport or passenger transport with another Member State of the European Union. Nor does the Directive apply to leisure, sport, fishing, research and public administration tasks. However, I also asked Jaak Viilipus, maritime specialist at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, if he sees that this bill could apply in Estonia. He didn't either. But I think that if someone from the Netherlands or Germany who works on inland waterways with a valid diploma of education and driving experience would like to come to Lake Peipsi to work on the Piirissaare shipping line, then we have a law that allows him to recognise his diploma and his maritime experience. But I'll be brief. This draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 October last year. The first reading of the draft act took place on 17 November and no amendments were received from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups by the deadline for amendments, 1 December. No one from the sector came to the Commission with an opinion either. Two proposals were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the initiator, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and one proposal arose during the review of the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for second reading at its meeting on 14 December, where a procedural decision was taken on the referral of the draft to second reading. A substantive debate took place at the meeting on 10 January this year and the Commission accepted the amendments. In the meantime, the text of the bill also went through the language. The amendments are of a technical nature. The first amendment replaces one word: 'List of countries published by the European Commission' amends 'List of countries drawn up by the European Commission'. The second amendment specifies that the person has managed the ship for a maximum period of six months in the previous calendar year or in the current year. So far, the original bill was just a "year." And the third amendment deletes the entry into force provisions in the original draft that the draft will enter into force as a law on 17 January, but since it will no longer enter into force on 17 January, it will enter into force in general. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading today, 12 January and the second reading closed. And when the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 19 January. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U138	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U139	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! You said that this bill basically does not concern Estonia, as we do not carry goods on inland waterways. After all, we are actually transporting goods on inland waterways, even if the same thing you brought to us is the Piirissaar. But indeed we do too, I myself have been convinced and seen how the soil, the sand, and so on, is being transported. Did I get it, I heard wrong, did you say wrong, or is there a third option?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U140	I do not know that it is possible to order the carriage of goods in some inland waterways in Estonia within the meaning of the Commercial Maritime Act. And there's another criterion that I didn't point out just in terms of shortness. This applies if the distance between the starting point and the end point is more than 10 kilometres, which, for example, in the case of Estonia, takes out the connection of Piirissaare, there is a connection of 8.4 kilometres. That when someone does occasional services, it doesn't concern short occasional services.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U141	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U142	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! To educate yourself. Once upon a time, we had the Emajõgi navigable that it was possible to move from Lake Võrtsjärv to Lake Peipsi, and it could still be between it, now traveling, or let's say, a few pleasure boats, but the pleasure boats also offer goods. So the goods themselves are transportable. I don't know that 10 kilometers now. Will he only count if there is nothing to sell on this festivities ship, perhaps there is no trade, but if there is a trade, then the goods have actually found a new owner, that is, a trade has taken place. Or doesn't that count for the seafaring?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U143	Freight transport is a relatively regulated area. If someone lifts a bag of sugar or flour to Piirissaare's ship, or to Jõmme, which sails on the Emajõgi River or Lake Peipsi, it is not considered cargo.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U144	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U145	Good manager! Good waitress! I have such a simple question. You said that it didn't concern Estonia in any way, even the experts say that it is very difficult to think about how it touches and talk about a Dutchman who would like to board a Boundary ship. Maybe. But not some Nigerian or Belgian or so on. I'm asking you why you have to spend time on this shit. Read first, second reading, third, waste Commission time, including our time. What's all this for?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U146	We have agreed that the directives of the European Union will be transposed into Estonian law. I was able to imagine that there might be such a coincidence that someone who has a certificate of competency or a certificate of navigation to work on inland waterways and who has received his seagoing service on inland waterways, which I know in the Netherlands and Germany, but there are still many of them in other countries of the European Union, with the possibility of obtaining evidence of qualifications in this way, and also in third countries recognised by the European Union, a list is drawn up of countries whose diploma he recognizes if such a person wants to come to work in Estonia, then his diplomas are also valid in Estonia. But it's a blind coincidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U147	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! It was interesting to hear this debate on what exactly is freight transport and which is not where this border runs from. But, in fact, there are important substantive questions behind this. Historically, inland waterways have played a major role in the Estonian economy and this trade sector has been fully represented. And now, at this point in your definition, we absolutely do not have cargo transport on inland waterways. Why has such a situation developed, and whose fault is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U149	I don't think it's anyone's fault. I think the goods have found more favourable conditions for movement. While perhaps here in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, sailing and wind - driven goods were the most advantageous way to move the Emajõgi River, these goods are probably being moved away by a truck and are simply cheaper for the owner of the goods or the person who needs to move it. But in any case, this bill creates the possibility of restoring the transport of goods to Estonian inland waterways, which is more in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U150	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U151	Good manager and good waitress! I looked at paragraph 211, the certificate of formal qualifications of a member of the crew of inland waterway vessels issued abroad and the validity of the service book. When you look at these lines under the fifth, there is no need to have any evidence at any time on a warship or on a ship carrying out police or other administrative duties in the state. It then arises that it has only operated the ship seasonally for up to six months in the previous calendar year or in the current year. What is this? What cargo ships, police, warship, government-run ship? How is it that at some point there has to be something, at some point you don't have to? With evidence from the police on board the ship you can drive abroad, but you can't drive on any other ship. Why don't you explain? Who hasn't read the bill as thoroughly as you have, what really is it that they want to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U152	Once again, I say that this is the transposition of the directive and this is the evidence, the certificate of professional qualifications for the completion of the training programme or the termination of educational establishments, which is just as common in the maritime sector, that these certificates of driving practice are not required from the person who, then, the list you read out, wants to work on ships, because these police and military authorities decide themselves, which positions they can and want to hire. But, Aivar, I think what is confusing to you is that it concerns the recognition in Estonia of the diplomas of the European Union and of the third countries that have been read. In practice, we cannot imagine a third-country person coming to the Estonian army on a warship along such a path.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U153	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U154	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Of course, it is sad to hear that Viljandi, our ancient Hanseatic city, has no chance of becoming such a Hanseatic city. But I'm asking you now that Aegna Island is a well-known administrative territory in the city centre. The port of Tallinn is also the administrative territory of the city centre. Now the Gulf of Tallinn is missed. Then, when Aegna was taken to the island, but we know that this was a good place to summer and that it was a place to cater, the goods were transported there. So, in this way, does Aegna's island have to carry food products as cargo, or does it fall under the definition of, well, flour in a bag?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U155	Yeah, that's a very interesting question. This bill really opens up, on the contrary, to Viljandi, the opportunity to feel like a prosperous Hanseatic city again, that it may start to carry goods with Hanseatics, certainly, should it be desired. But this really does not concern Tallinn and Aegena, because we are talking about inland waters. But the Gulf of Tallinn is still the sea and other diplomas and other rules apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U156	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U157	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable waitress! I'm reading in a bill that says so. Paragraph 4 that there is no requirement or prohibition shall not require a certificate from persons who work on a ship which only carries out limited voyages in the local interest, where the distance from the point of departure is in no case more than 10 kilometres. However, there are no ten from Laaksaar to Piirissaare, but if you are already carrying something from Tartu, it will be 10 kilometers and more will come full. So it's like it could. But my question is that this is an interesting term for "local interest." Perhaps you could open up this concept, which is in the interests of the locals? Or was it mentioned in the committee that what might this local interest be, how do we define it, whether Estonia as a whole is a local interest, or whether the city of Tartu alone is a local interest in this case? What's the local interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U158	The substance of this concept was not discussed in the Commission. But I will say once again that if Tartu is really to start shipping goods and freight lines are established, this bill supports this plan, the doors will open for large-scale freight transport between Tartu and Piirissaare.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U159	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U160	Good manager! Good waitress! Your answer, of course, raised even more questions. I understand you don't have to know anything if you're working on a warship, a police ship or a ship that's under state administration, you don't have to have any papers. But I have even more questions about the correction you made in the committee. One option is that if you've worked on a ship for up to six months, you can do anything and no proof is needed. But if I've been working for six months and one day in a year, I shouldn't, because the word "until" has been put up here. Is this "until" suddenly misplaced or desired more? What does it mean now that I work every year for less than six months, then I'm a nasty tough guy, but if I work all year, I'm not, and I'm supposed to start taking some exams or papers? Or do I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U161	Actually, we're talking about the current year and the calendar year. The current year shall be from 12 January 2022 to 12 January 2021. If he has worked for six months during this year, there is a driving practice. (Aivar Kokk explains: "It is written here "up to six months"...')
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U162	[[It's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U163	I can't explain it any other way than it already says.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U165	Oh, what's the calendar year? The calendar year shall be from 1 January to 31 December. I can't explain it any more, not even in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U166	Thank you. We will stick to the Estonian language in this hall. Procedural question, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U167	I specifically asked, "until" is written here. That if it's up to six months, it's okay. If you've worked for more than six months, you can't. The word "until" is a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U168	There's a "only seasonal" in front of this "until." When you read that sentence, you suddenly understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U169	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is that from the Member States of the European Union as many or from third countries as many have transposed this directive, so that the Estonian sailor can also transport goods on the Dutch river? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U171	I did not know how to ask about this in the Commission, but I think those countries where there are more such navigable inland waterways, they have certainly already transposed it, and usually directives are drawn up on the initiative of countries. In those countries where inland waterways are navigable and goods are transported in larger volumes, sailors are likely to be interested in moving and their diplomas being mutually recognised.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U172	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U173	Thank you. I am listening and thinking along, and I am now going to finally ask this question, which is traditionally speaking in this Chamber in the case of drafts: if this transposition of the directive or this draft is not adopted, will shipping on inland waterways be excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U174	In the case of Estonia, the adoption or failure to adopt this draft does not change the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U175	Good waitress, we'll go on with the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U176	Good manager! Good waitress! The water will continue if we don't accept it. But do we have any fine axe to expect if we do not adopt this directive? And how big a whip blow hits us?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U177	There was no debate on this in the Commission, and I cannot answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U178	Good waitress, it's happened now that there are no more questions. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U179	Thank you very much. And a little unexpected.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U180	What? Unexpected! Got it. Let's hope it was a nice surprise, a positive surprise. Okay. But now, under the Home and Working Procedures Act, we have to ask if we want to open negotiations, and I see that they want to. I open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U181	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember this first reading here, I don't have a verbatim in front of you when I inherited similar things. And right now it has turned out very clearly, a good colleague, Annely, said that it is a draft of blind chance, a draft of blind chicken, using the word 'chicken' or 'turkey'. That maybe some Dutchman, some Syrian, some Nigerian, maybe he'll come and want a ship on Border Island. What if it does? In my time, I remember very well when the barges crossed Peipsi, drove, no 8.9 kilometers, is, as Annely has calculated, to the Border Island. I didn't do the math. I've been driving this road many, many times. But if it was 10, there'd be another tobacco. But in any case, if it goes across the lake to Oudova, it would be longer anyway. Well, whether it's occasional, but as we heard right now, whether it's real or occasional, there's a difference. There's a kilometer difference here. In short, that's the one, yes, the draft of blind chance. And there are, in fact, directives like this. Unfortunately, there is no review of the number of draft blind coincidences that we are dealing with, and how much of this draft blind chicken, the draft of chance... on 17 November we spent our time here. Let me remind you, nothing's gonna happen. Even the experts say what it's for. By 1 December, of course, unless it concerns anyone, it is more theoretical, of course, which amendment you are still proposing on the blind chicken bill. Well, on 10 January, the Committee on Economic Affairs spent... By the way, the energy crisis was already there at the time, on 17 November it was known, on 10 January it was known. And right now, we're just burning up time here, like they say, eating caviar, like people say, and talking nonsense. We're working on a directive. The directive that he is here, Directive 2017/2397, came into force on the Estonian inland waters and on the Border Island and Emajõgi River. And Directives 91/672EEC and 96/50EC would end their existence in the legal space of Estonian waters. What's all this for? What's all this nonsense about? When I heard here from Annely that even she doesn't know what kind of whip is waiting for us if we don't adopt this directive, what are we discussing here? It is not necessary for us, such theoretical things, a theoretical Dutchman or a theoretical Syrian or Nigerian or Belgian or anyone who might want to board a ship on Border Island. What's with all this bullshit? That's my question. Let's stop this shit! And if there's a whiplash from Brussels... But would like to be writing from Annely... He said it was the most formal one he'd dealt with in seven years. But still, we might know, I would also like to know in writing what fine awaits us if we don't accept this draft of blind chance if we don't vote for a blind chicken or turkey. So this is what I wanted to say to you, ladies and gentlemen. Good luck processing the blind chicken!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U182	Thank you. Yes, please, the Riigikogu Chair, Aivar Chef! Please! I also recall that all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to speak at second reading. It is not just the representatives of the political groups. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U183	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It wasn't Peter's speech that made me wonder why he always thinks that there should be chickens on the sea, and especially blind, would have said "part," I understand, well, seabird, waterbird, but chicken. I guess that's what caused the question, and I guess that's why I came to the speaker's desk. But here are the suggestions for improvement and the questions that I still have left in the air. On the one hand, when a foreign citizen comes here, the question is whether or not his or her seafarers' papers are the same as they must be. And here, when you look at this bill, it's about the crew. In the crew, maybe my most famous cook who cooks. Does it matter now where he got the cooking papers or not? It says here that if he's been on the inland waterway for over six months, he shouldn't be doing this kind of work. I understand very well that the sentence is seasonally, that up to six months, then you can drive without any control, the ship goes up or doesn't go up, but if you've been driving for six months and one day, you definitely have to be in control, because it usually happens just after you've been driving for six months. That's how I understand this bill. And the other thing is, I'm gonna watch you drive on a private ship, it's gonna be important to control it, because the property of a private person goes wrong, you hit a quay or a pack, the ship goes bust. But you're going on a warship, you're going on a police ship or any kind of state administration, we're discussing that there are border guard ships on Lake Peipsi, there's no need for any documents. I come from anywhere else in the country, no control, no need. Drive any way you want. I see, here are the generals. Do you dare to allow a man who hasn't been checked to drive a warship or can't? It can be a cook, but it can't take long. It burns down, as the song says, then the flush is pulled into this shirt. It is not quite the case that if there is a European Union directive, it does not need to be discussed, but simply taken over, because it came from there. Yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was something worse than this. If there's a ship here that we have, on the rocks, maybe nothing will happen. But I can tell you that right now, we have the government to agree that in all the county centers where the boiler houses are on the wood, they're going to pay. The two of us opposed the opposition, but the four politicians in the coalition support it, that everything that goes for wood heating is, of course, quite natural at the moment in the case of energy prices, that no price must remain low. So I still suggest that every time these improvements are made on committees and they want better, I realize that they really wanted the best, but it's like thinking that if there's a chance that "up to," there's one more day that's gonna happen. But good luck to the Committee on Economic Affairs in preparing this draft for the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U184	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe! I would also like to appeal: there are no restrictions at second reading that only the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U185	Thank you, good Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U186	Would you like eight minutes? Mr. Kruusimäe?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U188	Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U189	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U190	Got it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U191	This ambassador, who can't say anything in five minutes, doesn't make any sense for that extra three minutes. As a general rule, practice has shown that this same idea is still being spinned, i.e. there will be no additional new one. I'd like to take care of what the good Andres Cook said. It's not like that. Or Aivar Chef. It's not like every person gets a real chef. All the more so if he's on the ship, it should be the papers. Very many of my groupmates just got paid places on the ship. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] My reason was that there might be a new family on the ship, and that's why my husband wouldn't let me cook on the ship. So he's not. That's what's left of Aivar, maybe from Arabella, the daughter of a pirate. That, Adalbert, the fat dog, without poison, the first storm you're in the north. But now I would like to speak in essence when the city centre's administrative territory is driven along the water. We have heard that the election promise was that Viimsi should start going to the sea taxi city in order to reduce these deadlocks. Then does this Gulf of Tallinn be treated as a sea or is it still treated as a bay? On the other hand, good Annely, if things are taken to Kihnu, let's say, the storm gets lost, that it still comes out somehow, or that the sailboat, for example, that's what's throwing, or that the course is always much longer when it's just driving in the back wind, and the goods are carried with it, I don't know if it stays. But if we take it from its source, I guess Kihnu isn't Pärnu's administrative territory anymore, but I don't know. Not yet, yeah. Pärnu is about to become like this, no matter what, he's already bigger than anything, but he's gonna be bigger than that again. I do not know how many of these directives we are adopting, but we should not restrict them, because at this point in the directive I did not see at all such an agile idea that there could also be an artificial intelligence that is actually carried on inland waterways or that goods. We don't know what the situation might happen, because maybe energy prices are the way that we'll all be surfing soon. You probably remember when the Olympics were, they put this thing on the skateboard and the person moved. And it's extremely green because we have wind energy. Maybe I would have waited... For example, in Tallinn, such an innovation commission has been made, so all innovative thoughts go through it and probably form into some kind of law. It would be nice to see artificial intelligence here. Sometimes, maybe artificial intelligence is more clever than a person from somewhere else, well, somewhere inside. The second big question for me is that there are sanctions in Russia and the Belarusian divide is being sold in Moscow. How will Belarus ever join this directive, because the gap must come from somewhere in the inland waters? And when he comes from Belarus, I think it's going to be difficult to explain. But, well, these are the other subjects. Luckily, he doesn't touch us very directly at this point. But we also know from history where the canals and rivers have been dug to flow the other way and also the name. I'll just give you a little example. The administrative territory of Viimsi is Naissaar, which is more territorially than the island of Aegna. Since there were these sea mines after World War II and he was a classified object, on all the cards he became smaller, smaller, smaller, later had a tiny dot and was found to be absolutely irrelevant to note that there was an island there at all. That's how we lost Naissaar on a lot of cards, but we regained independence and got the Naissaar back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U192	Thank you. There was also an opportunity for a reception. Aivar Chef, would you like some? At least consider, you can consider this possibility. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Urmas Reinsalu. Estonia is a maritime state and inland waterways are important.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U193	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U194	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U195	Thank you, Mr President. We're in an absurd situation. In a situation where there is, in fact, a crisis in the country that requires urgent decisions inevitably. Instead, we are dealing with a problem that does not have any substantive significance in terms of changing the reality of the situation. But let's go to the maritime problems. I understand the only question is that if anyone has been a ship's captain on Lake Chad, he can continue to travel on Lake Pihkva. The question is that obviously dealing with such nuances is not worthy of a situation where our maritime sector is experiencing a real crisis. And this is symptomatic of the government that decided on the intent of the government union that Estonia does not need a maritime policy. Only a few baroxes of much-worded slogans are set out in the proud name "Transport Development Plan for the years 2021 to 2035." And this attitude, or rather indifference to our national maritime affairs, is expressed in clear examples that Estonia fell on the grey list in terms of maritime safety. We asked Minister for Economic Affairs, Taavi Asa, for an explanation, and what was the answer? Corona is responsible, not for the omissions of officials, not for the sloppyness of bureaucrats, but for the corona that we are on the grey list. In essence, the national maritime administration within the meaning of the IMO has been abolished, and that is to say, if we look at the situation, the explanatory memorandum to this text patronizing that no one from the sector approached the Commission, see, the Commission with its opinion. But what do we really see? We see that our shipowners, the maritime council, the maritime public have turned to the Prime Minister and the government with this criticism, which now means systematically breaking down our maritime economy and cutting through all the opportunities for development. Those cry for help. In the maritime sphere, what is the current name of maritime activities managed by the Minister for Economic Affairs? For a small ice age in the Estonian maritime industry! That's how far we've come. And what is the government's response to these demands? We are sent here a paper saying that a sailor on Lake Chad is allowed to travel on Lake Pihkva in essence, which does not really change the situation. It's embarrassing, friends! 5,000 sailors are working under different flags around the world and, in the case of the merchant fleet, what is our Prime Minister doing? He is about to open an Estonian Gaas ship under the Latvian flag with pride. This is our approach, responsibility and due diligence about Estonian maritime affairs. It's a very embarrassing situation. And here we are watched with devotion by people who are engaged in maritime affairs, people who care for maritime culture, people who are engaged in the maritime economy. These sailors would like to work under the Estonian flag, contribute to the prosperity of our national maritime sector. And what are our answers to tax policy, economic policy? That nothing can be done. If we do, we'll do it in such a way that it won't do any good. Like sand, it's like this government's recklessness towards transport and the economy is draining its fingers. And they're trying to hide it as a fig leaf with this piece of paper. It's embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U196	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will now begin the examination of the 470 amendments to the draft. Three amendments to the draft have been received. All in favour of the commission and the position "to take full account": the first amendment, the second amendment, the third amendment. With this, we have examined the amendments. Thank you. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 470. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U197	Let us move on to the fifth item, which is the first reading of Draft Public Health Act 486 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Health and Labour, Tanel Kiige, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U198	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to give you an overview of the fully updated Public Health Act, a bill that has been prepared for a long time instead of the current Public Health Act, which will then be updated by the field, can be said, by the organizational side, as well as terminology. The aim is still the same, i.e. to protect human health and improve the health of the population. In short, what is fundamental to achieving these preconditions is that we update the terms in the area of public health, and more clearly, we set out the principles on which we are guided in the development of population health and the organisation of public health. We will also highlight public health activities at both national and local level, specify requirements and set certain additional restrictions in the field of beauty services, modernise requirements for child and welfare institutions, including catering, which is undoubtedly an extremely important area for the health of children and residents in general, and also create additional opportunities for supervision in the area of health protection and updated levels of fines for non-compliance with the requirements laid down for the protection of human health. And now, in turn, they're going to be more specific. The draft will replace both the Population Health Act, and now, in future, the Public Health Act, as well as other legislation, will be replaced by the term "Public Health" as a whole. The draft also corrects any legislation that has linguistically incorrectly used so far public health concepts, such as public health and the protection of public health and other such situations. The new Public Health Act also defines, at law level, the area of environmental health that has previously been referred to as health or environmental health. The text of the new law is also less central to health protection than it is currently in force and the tasks related to the prevention of negative health effects and the promotion of population health are more clearly regulated. The principles underlying the design and implementation of public health policies and measures, i.e. shared responsibility at different levels, different areas, sectors, and a high level of health protection, have also been set out. As I referred to earlier, we have solved or, well, we are doing our part to clarify the list of responsibilities of the state and local authorities. At the moment, the problem is that the current law does not include all the necessary public health tasks at national level, some of the tasks are too general, nor does it necessarily comply with the principle of shared responsibility. The general wording of the local government's tasks has in turn led to a situation where the content and quality of public health activities often vary considerably in different areas of Estonia. Perhaps there is no common understanding of what these public health responsibilities, tasks, objectives, content in this area are. The aim of these changes is, on the one hand, a clearer understanding of the duties of ministries. Since various areas and cooperation between them play an important role in influencing the health of the population and ensuring its development, we are laying down in the new law the responsibilities of ministries in organising public health. In addition to the fact that public health measures are carried out within the scope of their administration and within their respective competences, ministries must also ensure that decisions are made to the municipality and that the impact on the health of the population is assessed and taken into account when planning and implementing activities. It is this horizontal principle, which we are actually talking about very much in the area of health, because we all contribute to health through various activities. In the case of local authorities, the current Public Health Act also sets out tasks, including the organisation of activities aimed at the prevention and health promotion of the population in the rural area of the local government. But often, these tasks, as I referred to, are not clearly defined enough. So the objective is to specify this content, to specify the wording of the tasks, without actually adding additional tasks, because the current provision still requires these different activities. The purpose of the draft is to have a common understanding in all 79 municipalities, which are included in the organisation of these activities. And the aim is, of course, to actually harmonise as much as possible the content and quality of public health activities throughout the country. As I have pointed out, we also mention more specific requirements and additional restrictions in the area of beauty services. Perhaps the problem and concern is that the requirements and restrictions laid down by the current law here are not always up to date and have not taken into account all the protection of the health of the population, particularly of minors as the most vulnerable target group. The aim is to further update the definition of beauty services under the Public Health Act in order to make it clear to whom this regulation applies, and also to provide for the obligation for beauty service providers to have proven knowledge and skills for the safe provision of the service and, for example, to prevent some more serious undesirable effects. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that persons directly providing beauty services have sufficient theoretical knowledge and practical skills to carry out any procedure safely, and thus, ultimately, to improve the quality of beauty services, which inevitably also, as I have indicated, are closely linked to health. If you have sufficient knowledge and skills, the direct provider of beauty services will also be able to use the equipment necessary to perform any procedures in a skilful and safe manner, to agree, if necessary, to the consumer's procedures, as well as to contraindications, and also to maintain a clean environment and prevent the spread of infectious diseases. The point that often attracts much attention in the media is that the draft does indeed prohibit the provision of solarium and tattoo services to minors. Perhaps this is now a new restriction compared to the current Public Health Act, which aims to reduce the health risks of the population, including cancer risks. And sadly, I have to say that, since the early 2000s, the number of people affected by melanoma in Estonia has increased considerably, almost doubled. In 2000, there were 118 first cases in Estonia, then 223 in 2018. And melanoma is also one of the most common cancers among young people. The World Health Organisation has included solarium in the first group of carcinogens, which means that its relationship to cancer has been scientifically clearly demonstrated. Studies show that solarium visitors are 74% more likely to develop melanoma than people who do not visit solarium. And the risk is as high as the first exposure at a younger age. The WHO has actually issued a similar recommendation, and many countries have already complied with this recommendation, and the application of this restriction to minors has been highlighted by Estonian dermatologists, who strongly support it. It's also a matter of underage tattoos. The aim here is also, above all, to prevent the emergence of factors threatening the well-being, health and development of the child and undesirable health effects, i.e. prevention, is the main keyword here. The substances used in tattoo paints are due to certain health risks as well as to the procedures to be carried out: possible infectious diseases, skin lesions. Tattooing is inevitably very popular, but often decisions made at a young age are also later sought to correct that, if a person makes these choices at an adult age, he will certainly be better able to appreciate the need for tattooing as well as the health risks involved. And here again, the real question is that tattoos are often a mixture of several chemicals, consisting of colorants, auxiliary ingredients and many other things, or may lead to serious health effects, even genetic mutations, cancer, and skin allergies. Since January 2022, the use of thousands of dangerous chemicals in tattoo ink in the European Union has also been restricted by a separate regulation, which includes certain chemicals that cause cancer, genetic mutations, reproductive toxic chemicals, as well as skin sensitisers and irritants. The aim is, on the one hand, to make use as much safer as possible, and, at the same time, as has been said, to take this activity around the adult population rather than to offer it to minors. A number of countries in the European Union have previously introduced this restriction, too. The Public Health Act also updates the requirements for childcare and care facilities, including catering, as I have referred to. Here too, there is a concern that all these health requirements are currently not in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. Perhaps the results of studies on child obesity among younger schoolchildren in Europe, for example in 2019, clearly show that one in three boys and one in four girls are overweighted. Actually, it's a remarkable problem. When we talk about child obesity and obesity, this trend is getting worse among adults. And that's it, maybe the problem will increase with age. If the number of pupils in the first grade is higher, I would stress, in the first grade already 27%, in the fourth grade already 33%. According to the World Health Organisation's growth standards, 2% of all subjects in Estonia were underweight, 68% were normal-weight, 18% were overweight and 11% were obese. 29% of these subjects were then overweight or obese under the World Health Organisation's growth standards. Perhaps it is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper to ensure that the diet offered at school for remuneration promotes healthy eating. The current law does not sufficiently contribute to a balanced diet of children in educational establishments, let us say, support in legal terms. Certainly, I stress that I do not think that schools are solely responsible for ensuring that children are healthy and move properly, that they feed properly, but that the school environment inevitably has a major role to play and that other educational institutions play a role in shaping people's habits and eating habits, without wanting to reduce the responsibility of parents. Furthermore, as I have pointed out, the education sector is also planning to introduce new regulations governing the living environment for welfare institutions, as well as catering, and to modernise the requirements for the protection of the health of persons in institutions. We also update catering requirements in prisons, detention facilities, as I indicated, also in pre-school facilities, schools. In the case of schools, the role of the headmaster in promoting a balanced diet has been mentioned as a practical example, and it also sets out the requirements and restrictions in educational establishments not only for the food offered but also for the food offered for sale, i.e. "buffet food', which must take into account the national guidelines already in place today. These requirements and restrictions can, of course, also be expressed in advance by the board of trustees or, in the case of a private school, by the board of directors. In addition to the substantive side, we are actually reviewing supervision, as I have indicated, and we are also updating the fine rates for breaching the various requirements for the protection of human health. In fact, this side of health protection, the side of supervision, is significant. We are all, I think, aware and aware of the horror that can be sold on social media and the public health risks involved. Perhaps it is important here that the supervisory authorities have sufficient powers and adequate levels of fines so that such infringements can be avoided and, if necessary, brought to justice. The financial penalties imposed today on the basis of the law in force today are simply no longer up-to-date. It is also important that today, in terms of the protection of human health, the Health Board does not have the right to supervise the trading practices of a product or service, including, for example, the legality of advertising, or to prosecute a person in the event of breach of legal requirements, which is why, often as I referred to before, certain forms of false treatment and false treatment providers in social media and elsewhere can flourish and act relatively unscrupulously, and we all have to deal with these consequences together. And both children and adults are at risk here. Perhaps with the bill we will change, as I have pointed out, the maximum fine and penalty rates in the law. While the general principles of supervision remain the same, we have based ourselves on the principle that this punishment must be sufficiently effective to motivate individuals to refrain from non-compliance, and the low levels of fines may not, unfortunately, achieve this objective. The maximum rates of fines shall be increased as follows: I am talking about a legal person: in the case of cosmetics infringements, from EUR 3200 to EUR 50000, when we are talking about non-compliance with requirements relating to beauty and personal services, to EUR 80000 and to EUR 100000 in the case of non-compliance with the requirement to notify health risks. At the same time, I would stress that the fine rate for natural persons will actually remain the same with the draft, i.e. 200 fine units, which we are not changing at the moment. For me, the important point is that we are changing the supervisory powers of the Health Board for monitoring under the Advertising Act. Perhaps in the future, the Health Board would have the opportunity to prosecute persons who have made use of a false claim about a good or service that it cures illness, malfunctions. At the same time, the Health Board is granted supervisory powers under the Advertising Act only for advertising of goods and services that are then already supervised by the Health Board under a special law, such as cosmetics, beauty services and chemicals, for which compliance with the requirements is also subject to supervision by the Health Board under the Health Care Act and the Chemical Act. Perhaps the logic is that if you have been given a certain supervisory responsibility, you must also have the opportunity to actually realise what is lacking in today's law. In addition to the minor technical changes, there are a number of others here; this is also the subject of these legislations. As a concrete example, the treatment of gender mismatches will be removed from today's Public Health Act, in the future it will be in the Health Services Organisation Act and these standards will remain broadly the same, the Commission will remain the same, the outdated requirement for genetic research, which is not really scientificly sensible or necessary in today's situation, will be removed today. But this committee will continue to be able to carry out its work, of course, on the basis of health expertise, based on international guidelines for guidance. The composition of the Commission will continue to be confirmed by a ministerial decree consisting of representatives of the fields of gynaecology, psychiatry, urology, endocrinology and clinical psychologists, chosen on the basis of proposals from the respective professional and professional associations. Okay. But that's what I'm finishing up with right now. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U199	Thank you. You have many questions. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U200	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. It's clear, this law is very voluminous and there's a lot, a lot of how to say, all of it... coordination and everything else inside it, so it's like it's gonna work out the same way. But, in the light of your recent words, I have remained in mind when I looked at this regulation, which concerns the committees and the gender mismatch that it is, the committees that dealt with it, because gender mismatch has been recorded in many things. And it made me think that we have a term like "... gender', that is to say, work whose sex is difficult to prove at all to what sex it is, and there is no linguistic and knowledge-based description for that. How can such matters be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U201	Thank you. Well, as you said, the area is complex, and here it really makes sense that such assessments and discussions are conducted primarily by health experts. Similarly, according to the legislative proposal, there will be, as is the case today, a panel of medical experts who will make and evaluate such decisions and also answer such questions if necessary. Of course, life is not black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U202	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U203	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. § 13 of the bill you present lists a number of tasks that must be performed by local government units. These include, for example, support for the implementation of public health measures in the county or region. In view of the fact that Estonia has consistently reduced both the revenue base and the influence of cities and rural municipalities in recent decades, with the last administrative reform quite thoroughly and radically reduced the local authorities' contact with the local population and the community, do you not think that the performance of all these tasks may be beyond the authority's control, also considering that after the administrative reform the counties have essentially been wound up?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U204	Thank you. If you will allow me, I will once again specify the question in the view that, fortunately, it is not quite the case that there is consistently only a reduced revenue base. The previous government, very clearly, raised the local governments' income base, the government coalition of the Central Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland, with administrative reform. Similarly, the previous government, both during the crisis and more generally, gave different grants to the local government and has done so today's government. I would say that in some ways the pendulum is still moving a little in the right direction. In the meantime, I agree, when we talk about the 2009 economic crisis and the cuts at that time, they were, of course, very strong and often unfair. But luckily, we're moving in the right direction now all of a sudden. But this question is very well founded. The functions of local government also exist in the law in force today; they are simply more abstract. For example, I refer to § 10 of the current Public Health Act, which states that the functions of the municipality are to organise compliance with health legislation and to monitor compliance with it in the rural area of the local government, as well as to organise activities aimed at preventing the disease of the population and promoting health in the rural area of the local government. Maybe he's just a more abstract wording. Today, we present more specifically what these same tasks that apply today could mean, in essence, how this will work in shaping a living environment conducive to health, wellbeing and safety and in planning public health measures, health promotion, environmental health measures, and also the creation of the necessary networks in the local government unit to manage public health, related areas. Perhaps there are no more substantive tasks, but these tasks will be clarified. And I very much hope that the municipalities themselves will see it that way proactively, that it is in the interests of every municipality to stand up for public health on its territory. Perhaps so many now, having been responsible for the health sector for nearly three years, I can assure you that municipalities see health care as one of their own tasks, but still co-responsible for itself there, it is a primary hospital, which today often belongs to municipalities, in part or in full, and it is also the introduction of other such public health measures, whether or not to extend the life expectancy of the working-age population, to extend healthy years, thereby also increasing employment and reducing the need for social assistance. This is directly the interest of the municipality itself and, of course, the interest of the state that both the state and local authorities should address this issue. However, I agree with this view that, of course, any such action, if you want to increase or expand quality, also requires additional money and there is a question of priority setting in the municipal budget that how much resources the social and health care sector will receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U205	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U206	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I have the following question. A person who identifies himself as a representative of man, woman, and third sex. Three sexes are the concept that a person or a society does not regard a person as either a man or a woman. You can see here that a person has a gender mismatch. How does this law help trig people?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U207	Thank you. As I said before, such debates, debates, I think, are not necessarily the right politicians to hold. Maybe it's a medical question. Often there are very exceptional situations where a person, as has been said, may have a gender mismatch, including certain congenital differences compared to the normal situation. Perhaps the right experts on these issues will actually develop these right health services, the right codes of conduct, as well as the right guidelines for treatment, how to help in a specific situation, whether or not there is a need to intervene, advise and so on. As I referred to earlier, there are representatives of different fields of medical expertise: gynaecology, psychiatry, urology, endocrinology, and clinical psychology, so that it is not such an arbitrary decision, but still a broad-based approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U208	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the draft regulation that regulates the conditions and procedures for dealing with gender mismatches. So when we talk in Estonian, we're talking about transgenderity. And one of the hallmarks of transgenderity here are the smart books that call it a gender identity disorder that can be treated in psychotherapy. And I would like to know how the Commission will decide on this. Because he takes the argument first of all about this transgenderity according to international terminology and also about the occurrence of mental disorders. But he's a permanent mental disorder in itself because, let's say, gender dystrophy is an identity disorder in itself. How will you, how will this committee work under what conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U210	Thank you. First I bring back the beginning, the debate. This Commission also exists today, we are not creating any new Commission, we are not creating any new order. Let's not confuse ourselves here and the public. Today, he is working on the basis of medical expertise, as I described before. And, of course, as is the case now, in the future any such inconsistencies will be resolved psychiatrically, in order to prevent a mental disorder that does not allow a person to make a clearly considered decision on these issues. This will not change compared to the current regime. And, as I referred to before, this is not a place where there is too much expertise and competence, for example, for me as Minister for Health and Labour, and I am afraid that very many other politicians will also assess what is the right or wrong approach or solution on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U211	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the draft term "living life." Namely, the academic circles use not the term "living life," but the term "life life," and this is also used by the Estonian only medical journal Eesti Arst and also the database of the European Union institutions using the term "life life" in the survivability sense of the English word. I myself believe that this bill is alien to life and does not relate to the values of Estonian society. This is expressed not only in content but also in form. And now I'm asking you, is that my assessment accurate? You see, I'm also a subjective person, like all of us, and sometimes I may be unwittingly unjust. In a word, is my assessment of the project's expropriation valid and, if not, why has this unknown word been used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U213	Thank you for your question. Terminology can certainly be reviewed; it can be clarified, supplemented, if necessary, during the parliamentary procedure. Interesting observation! I certainly cannot agree with this assessment now that, on the basis of a single term for which it is the best possible question, it is to evaluate the entire draft. The draft has been drawn up for years, coordinated with various stakeholders, developed in the field of health care, with local authorities and so on. However, today's law needs to be updated, and I have described a number of problems. They need to be resolved, linked to the healthy diet of children, linked to the provision of a healthy living environment, linked to the introduction of harmful or anti-health-related activities. In this light, I would say that this draft is a clear step forward in the protection of human health, and it is certainly possible to make this draft even better during the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U214	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U215	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The more we have dealt with this draft in the committee, and the more we look at it, the more worrying it is that one bill regulates the area from school food to tattooing or art to sunbathing. Really, a very wide amplaua. That's where you made it clear that there's a connection to cancer development, plus physical diseases, mental disorders. In the case of minors, I understand what we have for 18 years, in Estonia, abortion can still be performed without the knowledge of our parents. The age limit is much lower, where there are just as many complications and disorders. And then the same regulation that has been discussed quite several times here today. Some issues are much more ideological than only in the field of experts. And here I also look at how many places a ministerial regulation makes various committees and lists, according to the draft regulation, the Commission will be formed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, not just the Minister. What exactly does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U216	Thank you. Responding from the outset, there is a wide area, of course, public health is wide. Perhaps it would be strange if we were to limit ourselves to updating the complete text of the draft law to one particular piece of work and leave everything aside. Now, by making this comparison, for example, with regard to tattoos and solariums and distinguishing it from abortions, it is that, on the one hand, abortion is an extremely personal decision and, of course, each of us always has a desire to do so, perhaps not to avoid such situations; life does not always allow it. And as a positive point here, unlike the use of solarium and tattoos, which are on the rise, i.e. increasing in terms of risk, the number of abortions has gradually decreased in Estonian society, precisely because of the improved knowledge of sexual health, which in the end is also a goal. Okay. As far as these regulations are concerned, these are, of course, ministerial regulations. So if there is somewhere in the explanatory memorandum or draft implementing act that is incomprehensible, then it can, of course, be supplemented in the course of the further procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U217	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to talk a little bit about these basically good legislative practices. According to the Health Services Organisation Act, which this Public Health Bill seeks to supplement, by adding a point to the conditions and procedures of gender mismatch, health care is the activities of health professionals in preventing, diagnosing and treating disease, injury or poisoning with the aim of alleviating a person's distress, preventing a deterioration in his or her medical condition or an exacerbation and restoring health. I still find this issue of gender mismatch to be somewhat incomprehensible in these laws. What is the gender mismatch among these listed health services? Does this law treat it as an illness, injury, poisoning, debilitating, worsening of health, or worsening of the disease?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U219	Thank you. In this case, yes, you have brought through different topics here, i.e. a number of changes are being made to the Health Services Organisation Act, including the section you have listed that really concerns the poisoning risks and similar ones previously referred to. However, as far as gender mismatch is concerned, the Public Health Act adds the existing rules to the Health Services Organisation Act today. Perhaps in this light, he must be opened up because the assessment was from experts that he did not fit in with the Public Health Act by nature and logic, but would better fit in with the Health Services Organisation Act like other health services. That's the logic. And this section is actually separate from what you're looking for. I can find him fast if you want me to. And I will also correct myself once that this particular commission was formed by a ministerial decree, not a regulation. There are a number of paragraphs in the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act, that § 59, which contains different changes, and then what you are interested in is § 56 (1) and the additional point 12, which is to say, gender mismatch. However, the earlier ones concerning poisoning and similar events are intended to mitigate other risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U220	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It's a brick, it's definitely got the points in it. But what I did not find here is the answer to the Estonian people's fear of an exhibition of immigrant doctors, the fear of winning immigrants, so that the preparation of these immigrant doctors would correspond to the level of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu et cetera, et cetera. Instead, we are talking about gender mismatches here, okay? It is still rather bizarre, in a situation where your ministry's Mrs. Chancellor imagines that she is a man and fails to understand her competence to form such a committee at all, as Mrs. Chancellor herself is likely to be struggling to determine her gender identity. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] How do we still ensure a professional approach to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U222	Thank you. To begin with, I think that we will ensure a professional approach so that we will not make personal assessments of the sex of one person or his/her abilities in the Chamber of Riigikogu. Certainly this particular committee, as I referred to earlier, is not a chancellor, but, as I referred to earlier, a minister on the basis of proposals in the relevant fields, as it is today and as it was before the former chancellor. So it's extremely arbitrary to draw such a link here. And this is precisely what has been ensured by the fact that the health sector is essentially based on professional expertise and scientific data rather than on personal subjective assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U223	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question arises from Paragraph 3 (7) where there is talk of gender mismatches and appropriate health services. That every right must be accompanied by responsibility. I ask you this: if, for example, as a child, or as a young person, there seems to be a mismatch, appropriate health care services will be provided, but perhaps in their thirties, in their forties, a normal family will be wanted, but then it will no longer be possible, such examples can be taken from Sweden, then who will take responsibility? In this context, is there also a fixed liability somewhere who will assume that responsibility when children begin to ask why you promised or why you gave the right? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U225	To begin with, we will straighten out that this does not concern minors, of course, in the case of different health services, these experts of the committees will assess on the basis of guidelines for treatment and, in general, when we are also talking about the administrative procedure law, there are certain procedures, certain procedures, also changes in the population register, for example, can only be made for adults. Perhaps there is no risk of a decision being made as a child that will later be regretted. Rather, as I referred to earlier, it is the law that protects children, such as tattoos, the use of solarium, and others, where choices made as a child may later prove to be less reasonable in retrospect. So it doesn't exist. And, of course, in the field of health always, as has been said, experts estimate, in this case, in a collegiate way, it must be established that what is the most reasonable health care in the event of a particular person's concern, and on that basis do it or offer it to that person. Here, as has been said, the criteria, the assessments of scientists and so on, so that they are not made in any way arbitrary or on the basis of a momentary emotion. Inevitably, the world around us is more complicated and there are people for whom these issues are a serious concern in organizing their lives, which does not exclude scenarios such as you described, of course, but they all add to life.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U226	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! This is a public health law. How, in particular, has this so-called'sex mismatch' already occurred in connection with the health of the population, health in the sense of this bill? How does this contribute to the protection of health, the prevention and reduction of undesirable health effects? How does he relate to this bill, the same gender mismatch?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U228	Thank you. It's nice that we're going to go over this point ten times, but I'd be happy to do it again. Maybe today in the Public Health Act, there's a topic in it. We are lifting him out of there precisely because, as you rightly said, he is not so much connected to public health, he is moving into the health services organisation law. So I'm glad we're on the same page here.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U229	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U230	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I am dealing with the question of water health and, specifically, the place of bathing. Paragraph 29 is the one that says that the holder of the bathing site must provide the data in the relevant information system. And now I'm actually going to ask you about this place of bathing, that usually the owner of the bathing place is the landowner, unless he has agreed otherwise in rem. This means that all the water bodies in Estonia, where the depth of the water is slightly more than the navel, are bathing sites and the seashore from Ikla to Narva-Jõesuu as well. How do you fill it, this point? In the past, there was a public beach where these requirements applied. Now there is no place, there is a place of bathing, and everyone has that responsibility. How can this point be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U231	Yeah, well, the specific supervision, the evaluation will definitely be better done by the Health Board. But the logic really is that if there is a publicly accessible place of bathing, right, there would be certain health protection requirements. If it's just a place where people can access, it's not a separate area, or, I don't know, exploited or proposed, there's another situation. However, this does not apply in the way that, figuratively speaking, every last lake or pond enlarged by a stream becomes a bathing place. It's still a separate term. However, if there is a wish, we can respond more precisely to this issue in writing. The Health Board has been working on this issue when it was a public beach change. It must have been during the last government, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U232	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U233	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have two questions. The first concerns whether tattoos include henna tattoos, which were still carried out with the consent of the parent, and what is being done elsewhere in the world. So this is what's done with natural colors and it disappears itself over time, usually these little reddish-brown ones. And the second question is that one familiar beekeeper once wanted to make one of the freshest honeys, which was that he added the mind of peppermint. But then it was extremely difficult to market why such a quantity and it came, and he bottled it around for a sauna, which means that after the sauna you can put it on yourself. Now, by looking at this "Requirements for Cosmetic Products," it's just an Estonian good idea to put a peppermint on your mind. Or what about, say, the future sale of products on the natural market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U234	Thank you. I'm sure you don't have to bury it. Honey is a good thing for eating and, if necessary, using cosmetics and other areas. But really, the aim of this draft is for such'cosmetic products', let's say straight out, if someone promises to sell you a product that is intended to be administered or, for example, that you are allowed to stay 10 years younger by smearing or lose some serious health concerns in order to intervene in such situations and even if this particular cosmetic product is dangerous to human health. Of course, there must be a healthy approach here. Honey with mint sounds really good and peppermint tea with honey. I'm sure it's not the subject of this bill. The goal is still to reduce the risks and to prosecute those who cause them. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Sorry, my bad! About the henna tattoo, I need to specify exactly where it belongs. Definitely the ones you get from somewhere with a sticker, like a tattoo of gum in it, probably we don't have to regulate as strictly as we do with these chemical tapes for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U235	Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here in § 35 of the bill, the sums that would become fines are well mentioned when someone violates it. I understand that the legal person will probably have EUR 80,000, as it says here, and probably 200 fine units for a non-legal person. But now I'm coming to a little bit of a vital situation. We're talking about no more minors, or under 18, being tattooed, and it's probably reasonable, I don't argue with that at all. But what's it gonna look like in real life? Suppose a concerned citizen sees somewhere obviously a minor who has a tattoo on some part of his body and would like to inform the relevant institutions. How will this process continue to look [out]? How's real life gonna look?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U237	Thank you. I'll straighten out the last one, henna's tattoo was a question. It doesn't go under the skin, so those rules don't apply there.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U238	Mr. Kruusimäe, you'll have an answer now, I'll just point out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U239	I didn't mean to interrupt the conversation, but henna's tattoo doesn't go under the skin. These requirements do not apply to them. He's just gone in the meantime, I've got good officials to help. Now, in answer to Rene Koka's question, it is, of course, possible to inform supervision of this. Depends on how little we're talking about. In any case, it may even be a child protection subject, in some cases it may indeed be the PPA or the Health Board. But the general logic is similar to maybe, well, let's get alcohol sales or something. This is primarily the responsibility of the service provider to ensure that it does not provide this service to minors. I can just tell you, as a background, that quite a lot of tattooers and these salons are actually quite satisfied when this rule arises because today they are in a situation where they have to decide for themselves each time whether, for example, 11 or 14 years of age or 17 years of age is or not competent to decide which tattoos they make for themselves and whether a situation may arise where a day later comes upset parent and asks to hear what you did. In this light, it turned out that there are adults, it makes sense in this case, and I very much hope that we will not have much of such a problem with this, but certainly the issues to which we need to report must be considered and the needs of the public must also be communicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U240	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U241	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. However, I would like to come back to this subject, which is here, as you said, ten times, but I think it has been dealt with 12 times by now. I've listened to all these questions and answers here, but I'd like to ask you again. We know what is actually behind the points of this planned draft, but now, please explain to the people of Estonia what is meant by point one, gender mismatch, persistence of gender mismatch. Are we talking about transgender? Before you shook your head. Then what are we talking about? Are we talking about sex change, sex change operations at the expense of the state? How will this law regulate this process? What services will the state finance from taxpayers' money in the future? How will this application procedure change and what is the purpose of all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U242	Thank you. Indeed, gender mismatch is a broader term where a person has problems and concerns about the gender acquired by birth or other such situations. As I said before, there is no such black and white answer, is there? Perhaps if you look at different scientific literature, these different situations are considerably more than just the transgenderness that you have just referred to or referred to by your colleague. There is indeed a panel of experts here, as in the future today, who will assess the need for these special care services, assess the accuracy of their provision, assess the person's state of mind, psychiatric status, and then decide whether and which health services are reasonable and correct for the person. This service plejad isn't so easy, again, it's not so black and white that there's an operation or not, there may be a series of things here, there's some kind of hormonal therapy, there may be some kind of counselling, so it's a relatively wide plejad. As in the case of other health services in general, health authorities and experts are considerably more competent to assess which service is necessary and justified for a person in this case. That's how he works today. Perhaps, as I have pointed out, the aim of this draft, the aim of the Public Health Bill, is to deal with the area of public health and the Public Health Act raises these points, in this case the issue of gender mismatch, which does not fit into it so much, and they move on to the Health Services Organisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U243	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U244	Thank you, good Chairman! Honorable Minister! One of the fundamental linguistic changes introduced by this draft is the permanent replacement of the word 'public health' by 'public health'. And the reason for this is also the views of linguists in this explanatory memorandum, which confirm that the word 'health' refers to a state and that the word 'health' should be used where the area is spoken, and that is also justified. However, what is not justified is the total grubbing-up of the word 'public health' in places where, instead of specifying the meaning, a new word is simply introduced instead. Perhaps when we talk about the state, our aim should be to have good public health in Estonia. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Does this mean that you have given up this goal in advance and do not want to achieve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U245	Thank you. Well, of course it isn't, as you well know. In this draft, when you read the text of the draft, there really is a separate public health, as you rightly said, in terms of health, and there is population health, which is repeatedly discussed what this population's health goal, health status, is, is it not, what are the risks to the health of the population, what are the undesirable effects and, of course, what are the objectives? Perhaps the word 'public health' instead of 'public health' will in future be 'public health', in some places 'public health' in order to be a little clearer, precisely what we are dealing with, which is, as has been said, an existing state, an objective, and which is part of the organisation of health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U246	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have done with today's draft a particularly clever legal act, i.e. you will come to me for the first time, I see that the Minister's decree is right here on our desk. Normally, the Government of the Republic or, let's say, the minister of the respective area will establish them himself, without discussion in the Riigikogu. It's a very interesting approach on your part. But if we go into the content and see how this is done on the basis of Paragraph 56 (1) (12) of the Health Services Organisation Act, which actually gives the Minister the opportunity to approve this regulation, which is not related to that law. But the same law on transgenders should, after all, be derived from the law, or not from the law, but from the regulation, in fact, from some kind of law. Name this law, apart from the right to adopt such a regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U248	In fact, it is quite common practice to include, for example, in an annex to the explanatory memorandum drafts of various implementing acts. This is also the case with this draft, not one or two, but they are here, I say, a dozen or more different regulations and other plans to meet the different public health objectives. As I have pointed out, today, these various regulations and decrees and committees have been formed on the basis of the Public Health Act, hereinafter referred to as the Health Services Organisation Act, which has also been heard repeatedly in this Chamber today. There's no clever legal trick here. The Riigikogu naturally adopts the law, but the background is just good to know, it was also the wish of the government's coordination circles... to accompany the ministries in their draft regulations and other implementing acts in order to assess the suitability and legal correctness of the whole package before they are later introduced at ministerial level after the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U249	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I'm very grateful these designs are here, really. From the same regulation that the previous speaker asked about, I hope that we will then be able to find out for the second reading. Paragraph 3 (1) here states that the Ministry of Social Affairs shall set up a medical expert committee to deal with gender mismatches. You said earlier that the Minister was still doing this. I think it would be appropriate to sign in here instead of the Ministry of Social Affairs. But it doesn't exactly concern the law. But the question I had before. It is now, like, that we have different criteria for minors with different drafts. There is currently a draft in Parliament's proceedings where it seems that there is quite the same understanding between the political forces as regards the sex life of minors and the age limit there, which we are raising to 16. We were talking about abortions, there's 14. Now, in the case of tattoos and solariums, we're going to set 18 limits. Do you think it's reasonable to set different boundaries like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U251	Yeah, thanks! I think that there must be certain limits in the law, still different, precisely when we are talking in this case about, for example, the age of sexual self-determination, I certainly support this, both the increase in this age limit and the fact that it exists in the law, because otherwise we are in a situation where, figuratively speaking, an adult of any age might think that a person of 11 or 12 years of age can live a sexual life and say that everything is free will. So I think that if there are clear limits to the law, it will also provide an opportunity to intervene in order to protect the child. On these issues, I am certainly conservative, if you could say so. Similarly, in the area of health protection, perhaps also here, as I referred to before, even for tattooers themselves, it is clearer and easier when there are age limits ahead. I myself have not been able to communicate so much with the representatives of the Solarium in this case, but this procedure has been very long, perhaps they too are aware of it, of course. Those are the risks. If these risks are scientifically proven, I think it is reasonable to protect them from the risks. There's nothing to do. It is always in the child's best interests to think about legislation. If it is in the child's best interest that he or she is right, he or she may have that right if it is in the child's best interest that he or she does not have that right in person, such as drinking alcohol, and in my opinion tattooing, it is reasonable that this right comes when he or she is of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U252	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I can't get over this gender mismatch either in any way, because as a lawyer, I immediately started combing, where such an interesting concept has now come in. I reviewed all the acts that existed in the Republic of Estonia and I could not find that word anywhere. In short, this is some kind of new legal definition that has never existed before. Ah, and also, because the explanatory memorandum is also a very important matter, since the law itself does not provide sufficient explanation, then, of course, in subsequent disputes, the explanatory memorandum will also be addressed. From there I read that this gender mismatch is a condition, a state of gender mismatch. And since this is a new phenomenon in our legal world, I would ask whether this gender imbalance is a normal or abnormal state? Or how should it be handled, or how should it be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U254	Thank you. Well, he's not really new in the field of health. In legislation, you are certainly stronger than me, but in the area of health, it is still a known and recognised term, of course it is a medical term, not, I don't know, legal. Gender mismatches are rare. However, just as with many other conditions, they need to find legal and medical solutions for people who have been identified, for whom it has been fixed on the basis of medical expertise.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U255	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U256	Thank you. That's one way to say it, I hate to say it badly about the Jesuits, but a totally Jesuit draft, because if we look at this 23 page, it's like it's all nice and nice, but if we start digging back here, into draft regulations of all kinds, it's like this with a wing grip bringing in some kind of complete stupidity and unnaturality. For example, the same gender mismatch. Since it has been introduced into this Public Health Act, which actually deals with public health, we can therefore treat it as a disease. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Affairs will set up a medical expert committee to deal with it, with doctors and expert psychologists, and so on and so on, and a representative of the rights of the target group will also be brought there. Doesn't it seem strange to you that the medical committee, the expert committee, is being brought to a decision by the sick?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U257	Thank you. As I referred to earlier, today this Commission exists. Perhaps again, we are not dealing here with the so-called "new" word, the wing grip, but with the removal of one topic from the Public Health Act and the introduction into the Health Services Organisation Act, where it simply fits and fits more organically. The fact that the Commission is broad-based, in particular health experts, including, where appropriate, other expertise, is, in my opinion, reasonable, and this is also the case in other areas. When we are actually talking about any health concerns, the health challenges, it is very common for representatives of the target group to be involved in the Commission itself. This is actually the case in other areas, precisely in order to perhaps broaden the Commission's horizon, broaden its perspective and so on. This is perfectly normal in the various national councils and expert committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U258	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, With my previous question, maybe I'd like to make an addition. In order for the law to be more readable, it could really be a "official bathing place," it would be as if it were fixed and then everyone would at least understand what it means. But the question now comes about § 13, or already § 5 deals with the health and well-being profile and § 13 then specifies the tasks. The joint tasks of the local government unit include the health profile of the county or region. But there is no concept such as the health profile of the municipality. This is what § 5 calls that it is being prepared, but if we look at the functions of the local government unit, there is no local government health profile. Is it meant to be, has it been left out by accident or why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U260	Thank you. I have to admit that this is a pretty interesting angle from which to look at it. It is certainly possible to assess, if necessary, in the Riigikogu proceedings, whether it is necessary to supplement this law with this view. I also agree that it must be clear, of course, when we return to the bathing sites, that we are talking about official public bathing sites. We do not mean that every person who has a body of water produced by the side of the sauna must begin to appreciate the quality of this water. It doesn't necessarily make sense. But if you have any additional proposals, you can certainly submit them and it will be possible to take these improvements there in the future during the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U261	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Such a great mammoth law, a lot of things have been put in here. Here are covered with solarium service, tattoos and cosmetics. Maybe I'm missing it, but maybe you can tell whether plastic surgery or beauty services restrictions have been dealt with here, such as the installation of breast implants at an early age, which are becoming more and more frequent, or filling shots on lips and such services. Is this area covered here with restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U263	I need to clarify this issue once, just in case, exactly what these various cosmetic beauty services have meant. Maybe as long as we go here to health operations and other such activities. Because, of course, in principle, they are equally likely to pose a potential health risk, as well as other beauty and personal services referred to before. It is mentioned here at the level of the law, which concerns, for example, various body piercings, other such services, nails and eyelash technicians, but the installation of breast implants that you have referred to in the text of the law, or something like that, does not exist. But here, for example, whether some of these paragraphs of § 19 also refer to this, we can give this answer retroactively or later.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U264	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U265	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good waitress! Did I hear correctly that nail technology is mentioned there too? But let it be. I have the first question of such cultural diversity. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, I have also asked that, if there is seal fat in some regions for food, then in the south, it is boot grease. So that some things can't be determined that when someone comes, they can't use this or that thing. That would be a question. And the second is that I didn't see the term "healthy years" here in the case of tobacco quitters. I think it could be and encourage people to quit tobacco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U266	Thank you. Yes, this law, as you said, contains various beauty and personal services, and here it really needs to be clarified where this border runs between health interventions. Agree that different approaches exist in different cultures. There is also national or, we take, one cultural space inside. Also used in Estonia or the same substance, as there was a sample of honey, in cosmetics, for making candles by talking about wax or for food. Surely this possibility will continue to be maintained. The aim here is not in any way to standardise the use of health-prone activities or services, but rather to regulate this in the case of activities potentially hazardous to health or certainly dangerous to health, and also to ensure that it is precisely their various beauty and personal services, cosmetic services providers themselves are competent, competent and aware of the potential risks and contraindications of the provision of these services as well as the use of products. Then there was the question of tobacco so that it could be put in "healthy years." It could be written into any law for my sake, undoubtedly raising healthy life years is a common goal for all of us. If you have a specific amendment, it can be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U267	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U268	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, why are you sending us contraband? Under the name of the Public Health Bill, you are actually sending us legislation implementing the Cohabitation Act in the cube. And while half the people are toasted, if cancer patients are often not paid for their medications, you're sending us free sex change operations and other perversions, I dare say. Why are you bringing us such a bill? Why are you deceiving the public with the title 'Proposal for Public Health' when it is, in fact, a contraband that so-called European values are planted here in a way that we cannot find them in this thick file? We could find them, we could find ordinary people. I suggest you withdraw this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U269	It seems that repetition is the mother of wisdom. For once: in the Public Health Act, they're all in the topic today. We take them out of the Public Health Act, comes the Public Health Act, they are introduced into the Health Services Organisation Act, where they are simply more organically suited. There is no creation of a new thing, no provision of this new service or anything like that. You can't say that. I have confirmed this many times, and so it is simply that the Medical Expertise Committee is present today, these appropriate health services exist today, and in fact it does not change in substance, rather it changes, especially in terms of technical and legal space. So there's no plan to withdraw the bill. And then there was the question, so I'm going to specify to Kert Kingo, who must have left the room now. When we were talking about beauty services, plastic surgery injections are still health care services, they are subject to the Law of Obligations Act. In this case, beauty services are more of such a cosmetic side. And when we talk about breast implants, for example, it is already under health care, where the law of debt applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U270	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U271	Good manager! Good minister! Thank you for such a thick kind of drug in the directives that are specifically put together. The law itself is small, 23 pages, regulations of enormous numbers, but formulas also so many regulations, there noise how to evaluate and air pollution and so on, everything. That's great. But how many of them are actually used? The real thing is that nonetheless, people breathe, are forced to breathe dangerous air not only in Ida-Virumaa, to endure this noise or other electronic pollution, to eat, to eat, to say shit in the form of food, because it's cheap, brought out of the country. The National Audit Office has repeatedly shown this, there are practically no analyses carried out, especially regarding some broccoli, vegetables or fruits coming from abroad by 76%. That's my question. If these formulas and all of them are pretty and price lists, how much does an analysis cost, what does it actually cost, how much are they even counted? What are you...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U272	Yeah, thanks! In this sense, I agree with the concern that, of course, in regulations and at all in legislation, we may often describe this ideal world, where we kind of want to live. Real life is often there somewhere in between. But I still think that the fact that we have regulations is specific measurements, so it's water quality, air quality, food quality, it's his recommendations, instructions on how to feed, is still a better option than that we have it just so-called self-flowing. Perhaps it is possible for the state to assess health risks, to manage them in a working environment, in a school environment, in a nursing home environment, in a wider public space, which is certainly right and reasonable. If everyone in Estonia wanted to eat healthily, breathe clean air, drink clean water, fortunately, the water in Estonia is generally clean, then of course it also requires additional resources for local governments, the state, but also for the people of Estonia to be able to do so. I think that we should not, because we are not there, somehow not setting this goal, must still have a goal. As has been pointed out here, in certain places, this additional resource would certainly be welcome, even for the local government, in order to create this healthier living environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U273	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U274	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. This bill is quite a linguistic forest written by such officials. I'm going to read and look and I'd like to chew a little bit of a star and ask what the terminology is. The name of this law is the Public Health Act, we have written nicely, but when we look at paragraphs 62 and 63, everything that is related to foreigners, the law on the granting of international protection to foreigners and the amendment of the law on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, the term 'public health' has been replaced by 'population health' throughout. The Synonyms dictionary treats the people and the population as an equally meaningful concept. Maybe then I'll ask why it's different about foreigners. What is the difference between these terms in terms of legislation, and why is such substitution intended specifically for foreigners?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U275	Thank you. No, this substitution is not made with regard to foreigners, it is actually throughout the Public Health Act, when we talk about the health of the population, these criteria, the sources of danger, we treat it that way throughout, it has nothing to do with foreigners. The clarifications of the terms did indeed come from health experts and earlier groups, which have doctors and, of course, are also officials. As a formal rule, it is indeed those who put the law into the legal text, but this clarification of terms came from the health sector. Perhaps it was considered right that public health and the health of the population were clearly set out separately instead of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U276	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U277	Thank you. § 2, § 2 of this Act states that the purpose of the Act is to ensure the protection of human health. Very pretty, sounds good. And this draft has been drawn up before being sent to the coordination circle, it has been introduced to representatives of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities and to representatives of schools, including representatives of the Estonian Association of School Leaders. Where are the various associations and associations in the field of health, such as the Estonian Association of Doctors, the Estonian Society of Psychiatrists, the Estonian Association of Nurses and so on and so forth? How is it possible that, in fact, it is these organisations and associations that deal with public health in a literal sense that have been ignored and simply excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U278	Thank you. Of course, that is not the case. The drafting of this draft was preceded by a corresponding development plan, as we often do legally in the country. Perhaps such ministries have been involved in this process, as different as I referred to, health associations, i.e. there are dozens of different associations involved. All this round in this particular last round of coordination may not have been highlighted, but, in fact, health authorities, the same ones you referred to and many others, are naturally involved in the drafting of this draft. If there is any interest, we may be able to find this long list, but this bill as such has been developed for years, which is that it is now just the last round of coordination, the feedback table of which is set out in this explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U279	Tiiu Aro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U280	Thank you! My question is motivated by the topic of gender change. I was wondering how much information is available now, you can tell how many gender-exchange operations have been carried out on average a year or in recent years in Estonia. How serious is this really a problem in public health in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U281	Thank you. These numbers are not in my head today, but, of course, as I referred to before, we are talking about a very marginal, small part, just like other diagnoses. Indeed, there may be, as in the case of gender mismatches, counselling, different hormonal treatments and operations, i.e. a wider range of health services. It certainly does not belong, I do not know, to the 100 most common and probably to the thousand most common health services provided by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U282	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U283	Thank you. While there is great concern about how this thing now is, the gender mismatch, no found euphemism again to hide something, here are extremely general and essentially not healthy nutrition changes in relation to the catering of schools and children's institutions. Does the Ministry intend to bring in any other draft or other legislation, a government regulation that would better adjust this area and really guarantee healthy eating in children's institutions and schools and would not leave it to cafés or directors?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U284	Thank you. So much would be improved now that this bill is mainly about public health. The fact that our debate today has focused on gender mismatches at the request of Members has been the choice of MEPs, not the choice of drafters. And with this particular issue of healthy nutrition, of course, has been much more seriously addressed and, as has been pointed out here, as is the case with the guidelines and the role of the Director, the role of the Council in providing this healthy diet, it is certainly important that we have a financial side here too, so, if we want to see some development jump in schools in the end, it is certainly a budgetary issue as well as how much there will be a national subsidy for school food for healthy food, which has been in place for some time now and, obviously, in the light of the increase in food prices and often, as your colleague Peeter Ernits referred to here, a more useful and healthier product can pay more. There is certainly a question here of a resource, i.e. allocating sufficient money to schools, to local authorities, so that this healthier food can be provided. We are now focusing on the legal framework, the other half being substantive so that there is a financial side.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U285	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U286	Thank you. I think it is absolutely insane at this time with this ideological action to come to this Parliament in a situation where we are experiencing a crisis on such serious issues. For years, I opposed this action in the office of the Minister of Justice, and I was amazed at the stubbornness that practically necessary public health issues stood because it was expected that I would leave the office of minister, because then it would be possible to come here to Parliament with the action of increasing gender change. My question is very simple. I'd like to go over that sneaky excrement of such built-in construction. Mr. Minister! If there is such a situation in the current law that a change in gender in the population register can take place after a procedure has been carried out under the decision of the Committee on Health, a medical procedure, is it really possible, in fact, for this new gender mismatch, if I look here on the basis of a decision by the Commission, to actually start making entries in the population register without a medical procedure, in fact as an ideological choice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U287	Yeah. I tried to follow the question. Going back to the background, I say, of course, this bill is a little wider. The fact that this Parliament's debate has gone to this place is, in some respects, to be expected, but it still saddens that all these other points are significantly less interesting than this may be one of the smallest of this package. The draft implementing act is only here, i.e. the implementing act will have to be approved, the corresponding, right, legal arrangements will be established on the basis of which the change of gender data will take place in the population register. Here, as I referred to earlier, there is, in any case, a decision of the Committee on Medical Expertise on this condition and on the possibility of healthcare, as well as recommendations on other relevant health services and supported services, before it is possible to change the gender data in a register based on the status of the person and the decision of that panel.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U288	Mr Reinsalu, is there a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U289	Yes, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U290	If it's a procedure, it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U291	Yeah! The Rules of Procedure Act interprets that when reading the draft, Members have the opportunity to ask questions and actually receive answers. And the answers have to touch on the substance of the bill, right? My question was very unambiguous: is it possible, on the basis of a new regime, not on the basis of a medical procedure, to start changing gender when the Commission takes such a decision? But I didn't really get an answer to that. President of the hearing, how am I supposed to behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U292	The rules give you the opportunity to ask another question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U293	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Here it is also put in the case of war graves that when dusts are buried, what do you call public health or how that or another matter is the state of public health. But I would ask you to send me an overview of these regulations in very detailed terms of formulas and what is being measured, which is also priced for plant protection products and other samples. All of this is beautiful and noble, but at this point in time, the financial coverage of the possibilities for analysing these regulations, for all these regulations. Then we'd know. One is theory, but the other is how much the Estonian state has contributed to these analyses at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U294	Yeah, it was now a request that I send you materials, I understand, not so much a question, right? Got that right? Well, let's check in with the Ministry. There really were 21 different draft legislations here. I don't know that if you mean all of them, it might take some time, but it's certainly possible to transmit them. The basis of all these numbers' values, well, somewhere these bases are taken, right? International agreements or domestic agreements. But we'll send as much as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U295	Urmas Reinsalu, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U296	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I ask, in fact, I repeat my question, as the President of the sitting taught me correctly. Mr. Minister! The current law says that this gender change is taking place, that the Commission has assessed it and that it has actually carried out a medical procedure, and then it is actually the basis for the population register on this gender change. And my question is, since this new draft regulation has been drafted deliberately or not in a very confusing way: do I quite rightly understand that, in the case of the new regime, this medical procedure in the case of a person, that he has had a change of sex, is not really necessary, but that if a person's status has been established by the Commission, it could also be the basis for a population register?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U297	Thank you. I've already answered, I'll answer again. Perhaps this is the decision of the Medical Expertise Committee on the possibility of further healthcare for this status, as well as recommendations on other relevant health services and support services. Perhaps this is not something that is "legally regulated," which the Commission must decide exactly in order to enable a person to change his gender data in the population register, but is what the Committee on Medical Expertise will assess, which activities and health services are and are not necessary for this purpose. It is a common kind of international practice. The fact that you want us to write down the legislation on what healthcare is to be provided to a person is more unusual for other healthcare services.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U298	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U299	Thank you. Mr. Minister! This is one activity that a simple member of the Riigikogu cannot understand. I understand that you are being accused of something and the bill is being accused, but you cannot follow if you are not a Member of the Commission. Now tell the simple person what you think the charge is and what you've done wrong, self-critically.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U300	Thank you. I think this bill is pretty good, and here, in fact, Members have said it. However, there are clearly certain perhaps keywords that, depending on the political or personal outlook, can be very alarmful for some people. In this case, the keyword'sex mismatch' in this Chamber raises a lot of questions and tensions in a situation where it is also a medical term that exists as a separate diagnosis today, has long been there and has not in any way arisen or been born in the course of this law. It's just that it gives rise to excitement and questions and counsel, maybe. I will try as much as I can to answer, but as I emphasised in the answers, it is actually a question of medical expertise, not of any politician's assessment of the right or wrong self-determination.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U301	And keep looking for answers to discord. Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U302	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, this issue of gender change is very confusingly regulated in this law. Now, twice, Urmas Reinsalu asked, and he probably didn't get the answer, but I didn't understand your answer either. I'll try to ask you a little different. Can this sex registration also take place in such a way that the medical committee takes a decision and provides for certain necessary steps to register it, but it may also be that it is only a legal structure, that there is no need to carry out any operations or other activities, but it is sufficient if the Commission has taken a decision, the person has submitted an application, assesses the situation and is sufficient to register it? Is it possible to change sex as a legal design?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U303	First of all, it is important to assess the persistence of the condition, i.e. that it is not, I do not know, a one-day mismatch, but that it generally requires a history of at least two years. The second must exclude the occurrence of a mental disorder, which is also assessed by this committee, i.e. that it does not have a mental disorder that prevents a person from making a clear, prudent decision on the matter. And the third, really, medical expert committee, as I said a few times, makes its decision on the possibility of further healthcare in this state. Perhaps it is the Commission that evaluates which health services need to be provided, which do not need to be provided, or that we do not regulate by law which health services a person needs to undergo in order to change his or her gender data.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U304	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U305	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. 35 years ago, the first international conference in Ottawa, Canada, focused on promoting health worldwide. Since then, health information has exploded in the world and improved its availability, so to speak, for health promotion and disease prevention. And now, on the subject of this new Public Health Act, I also ask how you will assess its impact on the quality of public health in the near future when this law is adopted. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U306	Thank you. Well, that really depends on the contributions of the parties and the ministries, local governments. What clearly improves in the area of health is, on the one hand, the whole legal framework is also clearer in the supervisory perspective. For example, the Health Board's possible activities in offering various false medicine and also potentially dangerous allegedly health products. For example, the same kind of chlorine drinks and other horrors that are offered on social media. In particular, the scope for intervention will be clarified and their supervisory powers extended. The role and activities of local authorities are, of course, primarily their competence. We will formulate more clearly what these possible actions are, which we see by law as their task. How much it can be accomplished, how much it is prioritised, in fact depends on local government leaders. It may also give guidance in the view of healthy eating in nursing homes, detention centres, especially, of course, in educational establishments, when we talk about children, provides clearer guidance on how to clean up this diet, how to keep the general environment in these institutions health-friendly. So this definitely brings some progress here, but I don't think any law alone will bring any breakthrough here. As a number of Members have pointed out, it is certainly important for local governments to have this financial capacity: on the one hand, the desire and ideal would be a financial supplement, the provision of additional resources, the provision of healthy food, it is a healthy environment, it is a ventilation system and so on. This already depends on the budget, both the state budget and the local government budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U307	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U308	Thank you. The law has laid down this provision for gender change in very vague and confusing terms, but I do not believe, Minister, that you have not understood it, even though your answers are as unclear as the text that is in this law. So here's what I'm asking you: please tell me what's going to change with the existing situation here. Anything's gonna change? And if it does, what's practically changing the gender?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U309	Thank you. So, compared to the existing situation... I described what's left. The medical team will remain. The persistence of the condition is also assessed, and the psychiatric condition is also assessed. There will be no genetic research, as I referred to earlier, which is simply inappropriate or unnecessary, pointless and unnecessary in terms of today's scientific health, which has little or no connection with subsequent decisions. Okay. And then, right, there is the decision of the Medical Expertise Committee, which the Commission itself decides on the possibility of further health care. Today, on the basis of the Commission's decision, it is as if the Minister gives this authorisation, which I believe is, frankly, absurd. Perhaps the Commission is proposing, as if it is sending it to the Minister for authorisation, for medical action, which is very absurd in this area. Perhaps we cannot imagine a minister in any other area to assess who is being provided with and to whom. So this is going to change. From now on, these decisions will be taken by the Medical Expertise Committee, as I referred to earlier, as this is the issue of medical expertise, and the Commission will assess both this status and further actions. Based on this same person's own status and based on the decision of this committee, it is possible for a person to change his or her gender data in the population register. I said very clearly: there is no genetic research and the Minister does not give any ridiculous permission for a person's sex change medical procedures. It is absurd in principle, I believe that the Members of this House suddenly agree that, in general, the Minister is probably not the person who should assess the gender mismatch... It's changing. I answered about what's gonna change.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U310	Honourables, we have a question and answer format, let's try to stick to it. Thank you! Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! All of this, of course, depends on the Minister. Today you're the minister, tomorrow there's someone else, can give you all sorts of things to say, visions. I don't know, maybe the next minister is in a different position. As you say, sex is a condition. Is that how it is, or is it gender or is it a condition? And I remember that the Socats here once discussed this matter and suggested that every six months this situation could change. In this case, this project could change this state more often, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U312	Thank you. Gender mismatch is a specific condition, isn't it, and it's a medical term, as I said many times. And this change in status is not now due to a person's own decision, perhaps because there is a change in gender or gender data, but there is a difference between the Commission, which automatically eliminates the possibility that it goes in some way, I don't know, every month, figuratively speaking, because there are several stages here, an evaluation of this history, an evaluation of the issue of mental disorders, a recommendation and a decision on the condition, a recommendation on further health services by the Commission, or that the person here alone does not decide these issues, but that it is evaluated by medical experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U313	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U314	Thank you. I admit that this issue excites me as many colleagues, but I will help them out, they have exhausted the possibility of asking, and I have had a small interest. Are their accusations true in the sense that a fundamental change takes place in the sense that gender change becomes a legal construction and that it no longer requires any mechanical medical treatment, if words are to be sought in this way? I'm sorry if I wasn't correct, but I don't know how to put it. Circumcision must not be the right word. What about the operation? Will it now be turned into a free choice that will be legally formalised or will there be a fundamental change here?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U315	Yeah. As I referred to earlier, today's law has such an interesting, in fact, regulation, it is such an interesting thing, perhaps, that, on the basis of the decision of the Medical Expertise Committee, which exists today, the Minister grants permission to change the sex of a person, to do medical work. It's not necessarily surgery, it's hormone therapy, surgery, and so on, okay? From now on, there will be a panel of medical experts who will decide on this status and also assess whether and what kind of health care needs to be provided to a person. Perhaps the Minister disappears from there and, in this view, the decision of the Committee of Experts is indeed the basis for this decision, not necessarily the need for a person to go specifically. We do not record in the regulation that it must receive hormonal treatment or that it must undergo surgical intervention in a situation where medical experts may not really consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U316	Mr. Ernits, is there a procedural problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U317	Yes, Mr President, a procedural question. The noise was loud, and I did not hear here whether Mr Jürgen wanted to circumcise himself or what the subject was. It was just a noise, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U318	The questioner's minister heard nicely and answered. I believe that the minister listened and heard Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U319	I'm just overemphasising one more time, if I may, sorry. Today, too, the operation is not a mandatory part of it. That we do not create this false saying that there is an operation today, not tomorrow, but today it is actually the Commission's decision that what medical procedures are needed, just here it is between the Minister's filter, which I believe to be personal, not personally, but I would say semi-professionally, is actually ridiculous because, according to the Law of Obligations Act, the Minister does not have the right to assess the need for health services for any person. The minister may not be a doctor, including me.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U320	Good minister! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U321	Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U322	Hele Everaus will co-report by the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues! I'm glad the bill has received such long attention and so important a discussion. No wonder, because it actually affects each and every one of us. If we now think about the law that he is dealing with, I will go straight to the Commission's business, too, but I will remind you, it concerns a part of health or health system. Maybe all this, so physical, social, psychological, all combined, which affects everyone's health. It's also dynamic, it's a continuous process, it lasts here today and every minute, even during discussions. So I think it's like it's really important that all those influences that long before the disease comes, we have all the time, and each of us has a lot of external, average, and internal factors as well. So it certainly doesn't include all these factors and doesn't prevent all these troubles, unfortunately, because nature is cleverer than us, but at least what we know, what we can control, we should be able to control it. In fact, very long preparation started in 2012, 2012, 2013 when this great plan for development was presented for coordination. On the one hand, it's surprising that it's so long, but I think it's like it's pretty good, because so many things have changed in time, we know for the last two years, not to mention all the other years. Okay. But let's go to what happened in the Commission. 22 November was the day when everyone in the Committee on Social Affairs was present, all the members of the Commission and Mr Tanel Kiik, Minister for Health and Labour, who gave us a very thorough report, just like you here or quite rightly to us here. And I don't think it's wise to go back to the report. However, you will be able to get acquainted with all the materials that are quite a free evening reading, as my physics teacher once said, on a free afternoon, take a look and see, and then you will always get smarter. Then there was also the head of the Public Health Department, Heli Laarmann, and the health system development department advisor Ulla Raid, to then, if necessary, comment if there are any questions. And then I'd like to go to some of the questions that came up in the debate after the Minister's presentation. And let's still name the questioners. Siret Kotka was interested in how it is in the event of violations of beauty and personal services that, in addition to legal persons, fines are imposed on natural persons. Heli Laarmann answered yes, or there are 200 fine units. Marika Tuus-Laul asked how and how much controls are carried out on service providers and products. He gave an example of food supplements. Well, you all know, the shelves are full of them, one prettier than the other and one better than the other. That's my add-on here now. But for which it is difficult to assess the content of the product and its health effects. The Minister replied that different bodies, such as medicines, are subject to supervision in different areas, you know very well, that compliance is generally assessed by the Agency and that compliance with medical devices is similarly assessed by the Health Board. The authorities shall also monitor, where appropriate, in cooperation with other relevant agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U324	Dear Professor, I apologize for a moment. Mr Reinsalu and Mr Ligi! I understand you didn't do anything, but you're talking. Why don't you go over to the cafeteria? Otherwise, it's just very difficult for the professor to tell you a very important subject here, and you're just talking to each other and not hearing anything. I think it is very difficult for Mr Grünthal, for example, to hear behind it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U325	I know I'm too old to look on. [[Laughing.]] But, of course, it's better for you to talk to each other. [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay, okay. So, on this point, the Minister pointed out that the Agriculture and Food Administration, for example, has an important role to play in assessing compliance with the requirements of food supplements. However, he stated that food supplements are a category that is quite difficult to control and that, if it is not possible to establish the "destructive effect" directly, he would remain in the grey zone. That's my comment again. Helmen Kütt noted very positively the necessity of the draft legislation, but the very serious question: has it been analysed when making amendments to the draft, whether they will bring local authorities the costs that the state should compensate for when changing legislation to local authorities? It's an important question. And the Minister replied that the content of the draft does not automatically require additional funding. If the municipality takes into account the possibility of mitigating different health risks when planning its activities and is already proactive in promoting health, the changes may even be more favourable overall. Each municipality is interested in keeping local residents healthy, with more people of working age and fewer people in need of social assistance. Understandable. Heli Laarmann also explained that there would be no additional activities and costs, he also explained that already at regional level the local authority had to draw up a health and well-being profile, which was the basis for planning the region, activities and developments, and said that the question was more than many municipalities have done so to date. It is possible that there are regions that have not done this in full in the past and that they may then have to start meeting this requirement and this could really lead to additional costs. But he once again stressed that making a health and well-being profile for all of us, in fact, has already been in the law in every different place in Estonia, and it has now just been written more thoroughly. Then I asked a question that I couldn't find in it, and I think it's also difficult to write into the law. But having been in contact with different situations in which so-called miracle doctors, some have really very good psychological abilities and very good hearing abilities, offering "miracle therapy," resulting in accelerated human exposure to either some complications or even death in order to control it. Well, unfortunately, the minister had to say that, in essence, there are very real ways of controlling here, but, as the Minister mentioned, entrepreneurs are also very skilled in this area and are able to defend themselves well in terms of legal problems. There were no further questions. And all were positive, it was decided to send the Commission's leader Siret Kotka to the first reading of the draft. And all the members of the Commission were in favour of it, and the date was proposed, 12 January, which is today, and then the Commission was advised to speak before you and it was proposed, again consensually, to conclude the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U326	The Anti-Semimets would like to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U327	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I listened very carefully, despite this intense conversation here. But I did not hear whether there was a debate in the Commission on the paragraph that so many questions were raised here. Perhaps the subject of the swamp came up or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U328	No. The representatives of your group were all present, but they did not raise this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U329	No further questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U330	Oh, how easy I got away! Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Minister, who has reflected the whole story well.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U331	It should be taken into account that there are two questions for both of you together. Maybe some people would have, but you see, they had to either ask the minister or ask you. Yeah, well, here's the story, so we can call the questions closed and go to the negotiations. In the case of negotiations, as always at first reading, it is possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U332	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit to you that, despite my mature age, health issues are generally of little interest to me. I don't read any health angles, health columns, or health magazines. When I feel like I'm feeling a little sick, I usually take Coldrex and I get better most of the time. Sometimes it doesn't, sometimes I get a little nervous and I get better again. So all this health thematics in this sense, in my eyes, is the need for some sort of gigantic collection of thick euro directives and previous laws and of common sense for ministers and officials, as we have been presented here today, and which also found the presentation in the Commission, well, from my point of view, it is completely unnecessary. But since we are working in Parliament and we need to look at the drafts that are being put on our table, I also got acquainted with it. And I have to say that, just as I expressed my displeasure to the Minister on one of my issues, it is, after all, a bottom-up cube of implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. After all, the implementing acts were largely a collection of euphemisms, which tried to hide what he was really doing in order to deceive society and to put society in a position where everyone would lay out their hands and say that there is nothing to do now. And now, if we adopt this bill in the form that it has been presented to us, then one day the same ministers and other people who have planted it on our table will lay their hands on it and say that there is nothing to do now. Now we already have the law. Now we already have the law, the law of gender mismatches and any other such mismatches. We can't accept that. Smuggling is contraband. And smugglers have always been punished when they're caught. And in this case, Minister, you have been caught. You're busted and you're gonna have to get punished. What else? The question, of course, is not only that there is some kind of gender mismatch and such a problem, which is quite a small part of the whole package, although, as we all know, a drop of tar can ruin the honeypot, and that drop of turpentine or tar has ravaged this honeypot, but also that there are other very questionable things. When questions were asked to the Minister here, well, frankly, in the case of one answer, I was forced to say that this is a complete Kafka Commission! We have accumulated great experience over the years that the committees consist, not of specialists, but of ideological soldiers, ideologies and propaganda, appointed by the Commission as specialists. It has become symptomatic for Europe, including Estonia, that we are experts in propaganda and ideology. I therefore disagree with some Franz Kafka 'Process' in the sense that we are being offered it as a health bill. And as I pointed out in my second question, while we are concerned here because there may be a confusion in someone's mind, whether he's a boy this morning and a girl this evening, or whether he's a third person the day after tomorrow, I don't know how many of these gender identities were supposed to be, I guess, dozens, then... More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U333	Please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U334	... I noted the chapter on how health services should be better provided by local authorities. I'd just laugh at it. Local governments!? We don't have family doctors everywhere. Family doctors do not have the means to assemble these lists and provide all the necessary quality health services to them. And here we are talking about whether local authorities will be better placed to provide health care. We focus on providing quality health services in large cities. Even in small towns we have a situation where there are not many doctors, there are no equipment and we do not have everything. But why isn't it? I'm asking why not. We've had a pandemic for two years. And we are now hearing the same so-called specialists, who may be pretty good surgeons, but certainly not good politicians, telling us how we are again at risk of having a health care system clogged up. We can't deal with the patients when we have the fourth, fifth, or tenth wave. I don't know, it's getting messy, it's got ten fingers, but that's not enough to read on your fingers how many waves we have. We're not gonna make it. But in two years we have been unable to do anything about it. Still can't handle it, still crashes, still no specialists, still no nurses, still no sanitars, still no appropriate wards. Minister, what have you been up to for two years? By promoting the injection! But how many complications, how many complications do we have? Well, that's not what you've been up to. That's what we read on Facebook, that's what we hear from acquaintances, how after the second injection and after the third injection, people have been knocked out by some disease, how someone who was healthy before that suddenly dies. And then you come here to tell us how our youngest victim is seven years old. This seven-year-old, you know very well what his problems were. Long-term health problems. And then you say he died of Korona. Why are you lying to the public? Look, it's propaganda. It's that propaganda, ideological propaganda! And don't come and offer us this bill. The Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject it and we will certainly vote in favour of the rejection. Come on with a better proposal, come on with a better draft, because this bill is going to have a lot of suggestions for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U335	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U336	Thank you. I'm asking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U337	Please, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U338	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely regrettable that we are discussing this very important draft and large-scale draft here in the form we are doing. This is a question and an example of a very bad political culture. And here's a serious complaint to the Minister and to the government. Both the President, the Chancellor of Justice and very many legal experts have pointed out that there is no good practice in making cluster laws or in following one law to make amendments to another law, especially when they are substantive and very important. And just now, this draft is an example of behaviour where the government comes out of the Public Health Act and behind it, among other things, bypassing the law on the organisation of health services changes the law on such an important and sensitive issue as gender change. And that is why this issue did not arise in the Commission. It was not considered necessary to introduce, raise and read by the members of the Commission that it was hidden there in such a form. Such legislation is irresponsible. I'm not talking about the substance right now. I am talking about how we deal with the law here so that 101 members of the Riigikogu may not even discover the significant changes that are hidden in the wake of one legislative amendment to another. It is extremely regrettable that, in this form, we are so arrogant and superficial in our view of legislation and so important issues. It also really hurts the target group that it concerns so that there is no substantive debate on these issues in this Chamber. This is an example of irresponsible political culture. Second, the Riigikogu as a rubber stamp. But this is how we make the rubber stamp of the Riigikogu so important that we leave the issues below to decide and do not regulate them at the level of the laws that should be regulated at the level of the laws. And this endless delegation that has taken place: Parliament delegates to the government, the government delegates to the minister, and the minister delegates to the officials. This is just another example of where we pry out from the minister, so what's really gonna change? And now we understand the core that's changing. From the ministerial level, too, it will now be given the competence of officials or the Commission, the medical committee. Not only does the decision-making level change, but these conditions also change. It's actually changing what's in it. And this content, which we did not open here today during this debate, is very much changing, but, finally, with questions, we received a reply from the Minister that substantive changes are taking place. I hope that, during the procedure for this draft, we will also be able to open this content very thoroughly. So, as a result of these previous proposals, and of the previous assessments I have made here, the Isamaa Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading and to come up with an amendment to the draft, which amends the draft that has actually been wanted to amend. This means the law on the organisation of health services as planned by the government. And then we will discuss this issue so that the members of the Riigikogu can understand it, openly and honestly and transparently, just as good lawmaking practice requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U339	And now, today's birthday boy Riina Sikkut, please! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U340	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna take three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U341	I thought you'd take three minutes. Three more minutes, then eight minutes, for your birthday. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U342	Thank you. And it's really like a birthday present that such an excellent bill has reached our first reading in the hall. I really recommend that, in addition to page 17 and draft regulation number 21, colleagues, read the remaining 250 pages. But I wanted to start with that. I think, about two years ago, the kids wanted to drink, I took them blackcurrant juice. The older child said: "Oh, that's so good! That grandma juice is so good! " I say it's not Grandma's juice, it's blackcurrant juice, but it's one of Setomaa's men. He gave it to me as a gift when I was visiting. He's got a lot of shrubs, a lot more than Grandma's grandpa, and he's still taking this juice to the local school and kindergarten so the kids can get vitamins and local healthy food. And then I had an older kid, I think he was six years old, thought a little bit and said, oh, that's a worthy person. I could only agree, I said to him, "Indeed, it's a worthy person." The fact that it is also offered for public money is school or kindergarten food, food in hospitals, care facilities or a living environment in the local government, as well as in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, shelters, so that it can be supportive of our health and not aggravating our health concerns, which is very important. And that's the change that we're actually doing with the Public Health Act. What is needed in order to be healthy or make reasonable choices about health? First, knowledge is needed. Yeah, and that's our joint responsibility. We can set an example here in this hall, it is by wearing a mask or dealing with other health issues, but just like the local government, which makes investment decisions, schools, kindergartens, light traffic routes, is responsible for ensuring that school and work routes are safe, so that choices are healthy, circles of interest, food and other activities. It doesn't just happen, it takes conscious decisions. And it is a shared responsibility, and I think it is the principle on which public health law is based. Yes, it is a shared responsibility to give people knowledge, local governments knowledge, organisations, ministries knowledge of their role, what instruments they can make informed choices and shape the environment, because in addition to knowledge, both people and organisations need an environment where making these healthy choices is easy. It cannot be assumed that a person is carrying a greater burden in economic terms, or that he or she is making great personal efforts to ensure that his or her life and living environment are healthy. A healthy choice must be simple, it could be something that is the first of the choices to be made automatically. And such a principle in our laws and, as a whole, a review of an area: that everything we do for public money is socially decided, actually supports people living healthy, living long and very important fundamental changes: that in fact, health inequalities are reduced, so that what decisions a person can make to preserve his health depend less on socio-economic background, is more capable and accessible to all. So really, under this law... The current approach in this Chamber has looked very narrowly at the issues. But really, this law also provides regulations on, for example, kindergarten and school food. And I've waited a long time for this law. But there are actually positive examples that change can be achieved in another way. Let's take the same Seto and Võrumaa as an example. As early as autumn 2019, there were five pilot schools in Võrumaa who agreed, in cooperation with local authorities, that at least 20% of the raw materials offered for school-school meals are local and organic. And now they have gone much further and the local authorities have entered into a cooperation agreement. Viljandi-, Tartu- and Järvamaa are actually moving in the same direction, and that is what I think we should do all over the place. And really, it's not somehow sci-fi expensive, mind-blowing, demanding major recipe updates. Yes, it is an effort and perhaps additional funding is also needed, as has already been the case in this Chamber, so that both the improved capacity of local authorities to fulfil their role and the changes to menus, for example, may indeed require a small additional funding. But I think in this Chamber we should be able to make these decisions. The task is well ahead of us in the form of a well-defined framework law, and now this framework must be met with its content. So, in addition to food, everything that concerns noise, radiation, pollutants, modern treatment is in the Public Health Act, and we could all actually stand for its proper implementation and enforcement. I also hope for meaningful discussions in this Chamber. And rather we could discuss what else is needed, that if there is now a task, that knowledge must be given and the environment created to make healthy choices, but often something else is needed to give people a reason to change their behaviour. But what are these clever modern ways of putting people on the path to healthy behavior? I think this is the place where we have an interesting debate in this Chamber, rather than discussing some specific draft regulation. So let's go on with this law! The Social Democrats support the adoption of this law in this Chamber, but at the same time we recognise the municipalities and organisations that are already standing up for a healthy working and school environment. Today we've all met Setos who have come to greet us for New Year's. They in Võrumaa have actually come to take this first step so that local organic food is available. This is an example that has already been set without the law's support and additional public funding. But let's give them more strength and bring the initiative over-Estonian! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U343	Good tenors and baritons in the middle! Mr. Hepner, Mr. Hepner! We have a Riigikogu hearing here. Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. It is now the case that the two groups have offered us an apology for interruption, a rejection proposal, and that is something we need to vote through. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to remind you that we are discussing draft 486, draft law on public health. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Isamaa to reject draft Public Health Act 486 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U344	The proposal was supported by 28 members of the Riigikogu, 49 against. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft, and that is why we have completed the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U345	Let us move on to our sixth item today, the draft law on the amendment of the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 490, is being read first. The Chair is welcome in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U346	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will present you with a draft law amending the Road Transport Act and other laws in connection with it. The draft amends the Road Transport Act, the Working Conditions of Workers Posted to Estonia, the Traffic Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Public Transport Act in order to bring them into line with the legislation of the European Union's road package. The amendments to the Posted Workers' Act transpose into Estonian law Directive 2020/1057 laying down the requirements for the posting of workers under Directives 96/71 and 2014/67, also for drivers, taking into account the different rules of Directive 2020/1057 in the road transport sector. The aim of the changes to the posted workers' law under Directive 2020/1057 is to ensure equal working conditions and social protection for drivers employed in Estonia, both in international and intra-Estonian road transport, for drivers posted to Estonia by a foreign carrier. In view of the high mobility of labour in the road transport sector, the Directive establishes sector-specific rules with a view to ensuring a balance between the freedom of road transport operators to provide cross-border services, the free movement of goods and the proper working conditions of drivers and social protection. In addition, the Directive aims to ensure the correct application of Directives 96/71 and 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council in order to strengthen control and cooperation at EU level to prevent fraud related to the posting of drivers. According to the obligations of Directive 2020/1057, most of the changes in the posted workers' law will enter into force on 2 February 2022. From that date, a foreign carrier sending a driver to Estonia must submit a declaration of dispatch to the competent authority of Estonia via the Internal Market Information System before the driver is dispatched. Since Directive 2020/1057 requires all Member States of the European Union to establish uniform posting requirements, the Estonian carrier must take into account the requirements in force in the country of dispatch in relation to the working conditions and social protection of drivers when posting drivers. The amendment to the Road Transport Act and the Public Transport Act aims to bring them into line with Regulation 2020/1055 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulations 1071/2009, 1072/ 2009 and 1024/2012 with a view to applying them to developments in the road transport sector. Since most of the provisions of Regulation 2020/1055 apply from 21 February 2022, the corresponding provisions of the Road Transport Act and the Public Transport Act must also be consistent with the Regulation and allow for direct applicability at the time of compliance with the requirements of the Regulation. The most important amendment resulting from Regulation 2020/1055 is the requirement for a Community licence and a certified copy thereof for a car and a combination of vehicles with a maximum authorised mass between 2,5 tonnes and 3 tonnes, which, unlike other amendments to the Road Transport Act, will enter into force on 21 May 2022. This change affects both the transporters in Estonia, the operators who carry out the billed international carriage of goods by car or combination of vehicles described above, as well as the competent authorities which supervise the transport of goods at national level or are responsible for the authorisation of companies and the certification of their copies. In Estonia, the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers deals with this. As Regulation 2020/1055 requires the operator's manager to comply with the requirement of good repute, the corresponding amendments will be introduced into both the Road Transport Act and the Public Transport Act. In view of the fact that Regulation 2020/1055 provides for liability to be imposed on the consignor, freight forwarder and main and sub-contractor when ordering non-compliant carriage of goods, the Road Transport Act will be amended accordingly. Regulation 2020/1055 provides that the electronic register of carriers of Member States, which is a unified system throughout Europe, must include the number of persons employed by each carrier, including drivers, and that during the period of validity of the licence the licence holder must verify that the number of vehicles and drivers available to the carrier is proportionate to the volume of transport operations carried out by the carrier. The receipt of both the persons employed by the carrier and the drivers is resolved by recording the relevant data in Estonia from the register of employment in the register of economic activities. This exchange of data between national registers avoids administrative burdens for transport operators, since data on persons employed by carriers, including drivers, are available in the register of employment established in accordance with the MKS. In order to obtain this information in the register of employment, the Tax and Customs Board proposes to amend the Tax Administration Act, which allows the relevant data to be disclosed to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or to its authorised authority. For reasons of legal clarity, the obligation to accompany the driver of the document certifying the contract of carriage and the minimum information to be entered on that document shall be laid down in respect of the carriage of goods for consideration. This is one part of the road package that Estonia needs to take over to ensure that our carriers are under the same conditions as other carriers of the European Union. So much for a marginal remark that the road package is somewhat wider, including directly applicable regulations, some of which have been contested. Estonia has gone along with some disputes, and the reason for this is primarily a return request, where we can see that this puts the carriers of the outermost regions of Europe at a disadvantage. Once again, however, it is necessary to transpose the directive in order to ensure that our own carriers are in a comparable position to carriers from other countries, other countries of the European Union. I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U347	Good Minister, there are also questions for you. Heiki Hepner starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would ask once again for your assessment, the most general, of how this directive affects the competitiveness of our car companies. We know, we have heard when there was a major dispute here that posting conditions are not appropriate or that this poses problems for our companies if the same conditions are applied in the countries of destination. If we approve this bill once, will life get better or worse? So what really happens to competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U349	Thank you. I would say that our carriers will then be on the same terms as the other carriers in the European Union. This could undoubtedly make life more difficult for carriers in some circumstances, but in some circumstances it would certainly make life easier for drivers. However, as the directive applies across the European Union, it is unfortunate that if we do not transpose this directive, our carriers will simply get into an unequal situation and they may be sanctioned in those countries that have transposed the directive, while we, if we do not transpose the directive, cannot sanction carriers from other European Union countries. So, for the sake of equal treatment, that would be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U350	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U351	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I would like you to open up to the members of the Riigikogu precisely this panel, which concerns part of the directive, because it is a very serious matter. And since we have given it to the court to settle with several other countries, members of the Riigikogu should have an accurate view of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U352	Thank you. This court order, a directly applicable regulation against which national courts have applied, is not part of the directive, but it is part of this road package, the whole. Now, indeed, already in October 2019, the debate on this return request started, in October 2019, the government has already turned to the European Parliament and the Commission that this return request is a barrier to competitiveness for the countries which are farther away from the central part of the European Union. Unfortunately, the decision has been made in Europe. Indeed, a number of countries, the European Court of Justice, have turned against this decision. Estonia has gone along with this appeal in particular on this point, which concerns the requirement for drivers to return. The courts are known to grind for a long time. How the court ends is very difficult to judge today. However, we also have quite good arguments because, in fact, the impact assessment, when this regulation was introduced, was not carried out. And now that an impact assessment has been carried out afterwards, of course, the impact assessment points out that this return requirement naturally increases CO2 emissions, because these trucks are essentially going back and forth empty. So this is one strong argument on our side. But once again, how the courts will finish their work is too early to say today.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U353	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U354	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You beautifully, skilfully, as always, praised this draft, this directive. But this is, in fact, a complete shame in this road package, with which our carriers, the carriers of our region, are in a bad situation, a bad competitive situation when we compare the various countries of Western Europe. And that's not the question, is it? That's what you said. There's been a court order. No, it's not. This directive has also been brought before the Court. Poland also went to court with this directive, which we are currently taking over here, and a series of these provisions when we look at six cases. This is clearly worsening our competition in such a situation. And the regulations are indeed directly applicable. My question is how many countries have today implemented this directive into their national law. Has Poland also implemented this? And have these countries done so in full, including those countries, I would point out, those countries which have challenged certain provisions of the directive that we are currently transposing here before the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U355	Thank you. I dare say that he was a bit overreacting now when you said that I praised this directive. No, it's been a long debate. And there's been a really, really big discussion about that. Unfortunately, there have also been countries in favour of this directive. And, unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that these are the large countries whose decision has been taken in this case. Now, indeed, the points that have been contested are certainly more than the various countries. But at the same time, the directive is valid, and for Estonia, it is enough for Germany to transpose the directive. As a rule, our trucks are going through it and, in order for our carriers' competitiveness to deteriorate, it is really enough that Germany has done so, as a rule, simply drive away from Poland. So, in order for our carriers to continue to be able to move in Europe, it makes sense to transpose this directive. At the same time, it makes sense to keep going to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U356	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U357	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will continue with the same question on the road package in the light of the fact that we are dealing here by country with 'Fit for 55', and there are actually important starting points for how road transport in the future and with which engines vehicles it can be done at all. It's strange for me to be honest with you. In the same way, we say that road transport is the source of a very large amount of CO2 emissions. We want to reduce the spread of CO2 and then we simply write in a requirement on the European side that cars must go back empty to their country of residence, and at the same time we say that EUR 25 per tonne is the reasonable price of CO2 in the market, which is capable of moving effectively to a new economic space. How is this policy still going to happen to us? What is the agreed basis that such things can even reach this Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U358	Thank you. The basis is that this is a European directive, which some countries want, which they will certainly implement, and if they do, there is nothing to do, our carriers will have to take this into account there. And we must also have the opportunity to support them in this sense so that they can count on it there in other countries. Therefore, these necessary changes in our laws. I fully agree with you on this point that it is totally inappropriate to force cars to go back and forth empty when setting all kinds of climate targets. But it is probably not in the worst situation in Estonia, and in the worst situation is Cyprus and Malta, where the trucks will have to sail to the island and return to the ship, that this is a pretty absurd situation. So the climate package, or the climate targets at all, certainly does not match in any way. But once again, in order simply to help our own transport companies, unfortunately, this procedure must be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U359	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U360	Good manager! Good waitress! It's always interesting to read what organizations who know more about it than we think about your creation. And here it is very remarkable that [Estonia] most of the proposals made by the Association of International Car Carriers and the Association of Car Companies have been sent to the trash bin with wisdom. Well, let's take one of them, and I think they know better than the Ministry, a simple thing, to add two more things to the electronic transport document: the driver's personal identification number and the registration mark of the vehicle and its trailer. The Ministry says that go where the devil, not counted, and says that yes, if European implementing acts are to be adopted, that maybe after that, in a so-called faithful way, perhaps then. However, these organizations know better than the Germans in your ministry or we know how international road transport actually works here. They offer two little things, but you say, "Ah go where the hell..." and maybe when the implementing acts come in, we'll start looking. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U361	Thank you. The reason is that the additional requirements will be laid down in implementing acts, and it makes sense for us to act according to what those implementing acts will be, not to create further confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U362	Urmas Reinsalu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U363	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Please state specifically in this draft law the provisions transposing the directive that Estonia has challenged by joining the Polish action before the European Court of Justice. And please describe why they do not meet Estonia's interests, why they do not meet the interests of Estonian carriers, so that we can be clear. And my question was whether these provisions were also Poland and we are, as it were, the mother disputer in which we have simply joined the action, whether these provisions were Poland, and perhaps several other countries were also jointly, I think, from the Visegrád countries, somebody else, has Poland fully transposed them and incorporated them into its national law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U364	Thank you. There are more opponents: Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus, Hungary, Malta and Poland. The main thing now, against which Estonia and where Estonia have joined this action, is that it is a requirement for return. As this is a direct regulation, it is not really a question of whether someone is taking over it, it is not going to take over. It's just gonna be. So here, too, Poland's position does not really determine what will happen in the future. But, yeah, we're in court with that claim.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U365	Mr Reinsalu, the questions are one by one. Heiki Hepner's turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U366	Yeah, thanks a lot! I'm still coming closer to the home rind. Paragraph 722 states that the consignor, if he orders goods from a person who does not have a licence to carry a cargo, has some other items that may still be missing, can be punished with up to 200 fine units. Now, in this context, am I wrong to think that whoever buys the couch and if he fails to check whether the carrier of the couch had permission to carry the cargo at home, and if it turns out that it wasn't, it's possible to add another 200 fine units to that couch account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U367	In order to ensure equal competition, it is certainly reasonable to check whether the transport company from which the service is ordered is registered and whether it is a company with all the permits. And this, of course, concerns commercial transport, perhaps indeed for money.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U368	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U369	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The Commission had also raised this issue in order to make a new letter to the Commission, in other words, to change the way to say, the approach to this particular issue of return. You said that there would be a meeting of the Transport Council, where you could see, among other things, these ministers and then make a joint letter again. Is it done or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U370	In the last place, on 20 December, the Environment Council returned to this issue that it is in no way compatible with the environmental objectives, but, unfortunately, the countries that support this return request were very strongly opposed to the proposal. At the meeting of transport ministers, yes, we have had this discussion with ministers, but today it is still in favour of going to the end of this trial, because, as I said, this climate aspect seems to be such a pretty strong argument. On the one hand, we are setting targets, on the other hand, we are putting these objectives to the bottom, in particular through the fact that this impact analysis had not been carried out, which will lead to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U371	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U372	Good manager! Good minister! Once again, we come to see what the organisations that come into contact with this issue on a daily basis think and what the ministerial advisers think. It's a small thing, terms. There is such a thing as a accompanying document, sometimes called a delivery note, but according to the International Road Transport Association's remark, the letter of carriage is official and they say that it is everywhere, these examples, which I am not going to name, are used in this "transport letter." It's just that the terminology could be the same. And then someone from your ministry counselor Margus Starfield says, "Hey, listen, trash can, we know better what it's like." How's that stuff really? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Whether these road transport associations are stupid as table feet, don't know how and what terms to use, and your advisor...
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U373	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U374	...knows? That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U375	Thank you. This is not my advisor, it is a ministry employee, and in this case I think it is right to trust his opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U376	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U377	Thank you. Dear Minister, In order to transpose this Directive, it is also necessary to lay down those implementing rules. And one of them is the extension of the requirements of the Directive on posted workers in the road transport sector. As a result, drivers in other countries will have to be paid at least the minimum wage in the country where the posting takes place. What exactly is it going to look like now? Why don't you open that side a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U378	Thank you. If this directive is transposed, drivers who work, carry out transport operations in the territory of other countries, let us say that they take the goods away, but there is still some kind of road transport in that territory, then this road transport must also be remunerated according to the way in which road transport is paid in that country. Figuratively speaking, if, for example, a Lithuanian driver, a Lithuanian carrier carries out transport operations in Estonia, he must also pay the driver, like Estonian drivers. Lithuania is a very large carrier country. And I know that they carry a lot of transport, or most of it is outside Lithuania, including Estonia. So in this sense it actually improves Estonia's competitive situation, Lithuania compared to Estonia. Of course, if our carriers are working in Germany, for example, their costs will increase again.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U379	Good Minister, no further questions, thank you. Now by the Committee on Economic Affairs in Riho Breivel, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on this issue took place on 6 December last year. Kristen Michal, Annely Akkermann, I, Jüri Jaanson, Siim Kallas, Mikhail Korb and Mikhail Stalnukhin were present at the meeting. There was no Raimond Kaljulaid, no Kalvi Tough and no Sven Sester. Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Margus Tähkerpõld, Head of Transport and Traffic Services, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Eda Rembel, Senior Specialist, as well as Moonika Parksepp, Minister. The agenda was to amend the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, and to send the draft law amending other laws relating to it to the first reading of the debate. And then the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, introduced this draft to us in practical terms, just as he gave it to us here today. And I don't think that's what I'm going to refer to now, because practically this story was all presented here to you and exactly the same way to say, examples of us had it reported to us. And then there were some questions. I asked how many countries have adopted the directive and what will happen to the point at which they are sitting in court. Taavi Aas replied that the case would continue. At the moment, there are no known countries that would not transpose the directive on the grounds that they are in court. In addition to the issue, there are other points in the directive that the countries are interested in. That was the answer to my question. And then Siim Kallas asked how the directive that the countries have been against went through. In addition, is there a possibility that the same issue will be discussed again in the Council? That's what Siim Kallas asked. Mr Aas replied that the directive had gone through because the large countries of Central Europe had imposed it in an understandable way to protect their drivers and to deter Eastern Europeans from the market and to restrict competition. It is not known that the subject will be discussed again while there is a court. That was the answer to the question asked by Taavi Asa. Here it was clear that large countries are interested in restricting our competition. I asked whether Estonia could not bring the matter up again. Mr Aas said that the countries that are currently in court were unanimous against the directive and tried to prevent its adoption, but this did not work. Turning against the European Union is a rather unprecedented and extraordinary step. It is a clear signal that they want to stand up for their rights. True. Siim Kallas said that when the bill comes before the Riigikogu, questions arise as to why we should lay down rules that are harmful to Estonia. However, he said that it had to be done, because otherwise things would get worse. And Kallas suggested that we turn to the European Commission together with another country, because only they can propose a legislative initiative. This means the European Commission. Then there is the opportunity to say that there is both a trial and a referral to the European Commission to make improvements to the relevant law. Just as we heard in our reply today from Asa that it has been turned, but then, how to say, for the purpose of this green return, but in fact, I think it should be dealt with more. Taavi Aas said that there was going to be a meeting here, and he said that there was going to be a meeting of the Transport Council, where it would be possible to see, among other things, the ministers of the countries that have also turned to the courts. These countries include Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus, Hungary, Malta and Poland. There's a chance to discuss it. Aas agreed that although there are rules that are not satisfied, all the remaining points are important to take over to avoid more damage. This is the same as the Minister told us here today. At the meeting of the Transport Council, I did not understand whether or not they were going to make a joint appeal. And Eda Rembel, Senior Specialist for Transport and Traffic Services at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, added that when the whole road package was discussed in the European Parliament, a joint letter was made with the countries mentioned above and fought at different levels. Unfortunately, the fight fell by a majority. The possibility of a new letter to the Commission is, but the result cannot be certain. Mr Kallas felt that it was not reasonable to expect a judgment only, but to try out a new letter. That concludes the debate, and the decision was taken to appoint me as the representative of the commission. Propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda for today, which is 12.01.22. And propose that we finish our first reading. And that decision was taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2022-01-12_U381	Mr. Breivel, thank you, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests, we can close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 490. That concludes our first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 January. Ladies and gentlemen, with this, we have well exhausted today's agenda. Have a good night. The sitting is adjourned.
